ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Taverne, as initiator, to section K. He is supported by Matthijs Hazenkamp and Jasper Boon, both members of the VVD, in the defense of the bill in VVD. I would also like to welcome the Foreign Minister. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The answers to the questions that will be asked today will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiator. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Schouten has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my compliments to the initiator. It's always a special time to be in V-K and to be able to defend your own bill. Sitting in box K is the easiest route. After that there will be a very special course, but for that most work is done, as I know from my own experience. I am therefore also looking at the support staff, who will undoubtedly have put a lot of work into it. In any case, they deserve a great deal of praise for all these efforts. Then the contents. The initiator is seeking explicit approval for his own initiative law today. The Christian Union sympathizes with the core idea of the proposal: ensure a good parliamentary involvement in treaties that contain a binding provision for everyone. After all, international conventions are important for our legal order. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a constitutional court in the Netherlands and constitutional review is still prohibited. However, through a detour, through international law, for example, public action or legislation can be assessed against important legal standards. This is part of a modern democratic rule of law. It is precisely because treaties can have such a great impact and can be brought directly to justice by citizens that it is important that Parliament and government have clear agreements on the approval of these conventions. Treaties can now, and even after adoption of this bill, be either implied or expressly approved by Parliament. By tacit approval, the government sends a note to the House of Representatives and, if no mail comes back, that's it. In the event of express approval, an approval law shall be submitted on which both Parliament's Chambers shall vote. I share the idea that, in the case of treaty provisions that you can rely directly on, approval should not go through a note without reaction. It is important to strengthen Parliament's position in such cases. Of course, the emergency brake can already be applied in a tacit procedure, but a more active approach for the parliament and the cabinet would be good. That is the general line of my group, but I do have some questions and comments that are of interest to my group on the drafting of the initiative law. I note that there are a number of points where the impact of the initiative law is not yet clear. First of all, when a treaty is concluded, it is not exactly agreed which provisions bind everyone. The government will need to know before it has a treaty approved. How does the initiator imagine that? What if mistakes are made in them that only turn out afterwards? What happens if a law has not been explicitly approved, because the government felt that it did not contain any binding provision, while the judge does read a binding provision in it? According to the initiator, such a situation is possible. Is the adoption procedure of the law invalid, given the content of the initiative law, or not? In my view, at that moment, there is a kind of no man's land. Can the initiator respond to this? It is also unclear how often the existing emergency braking procedure is used. I think that is important for the assessment of the legislative proposal. A fifth of the members can now express their approval of tacit approval. I would like to know from the Minister, as an advisor to the initiator, and from the initiator himself, how many times that has occurred in their view. How many treaties in which a binding declaration must be read by the law in force have been silently approved at the time? That seems to me to be important information, even when considering this bill. I hope that both the petitioner and his advisor will be able to provide further information on this. I would also like to know from the author and his advisor what he thinks of the argument put forward by, among other things, the State Council, that this proposal is a threat to the ability of the Netherlands to act in international traffic. Is that correct, or is that too definite? In my opinion, there are more countries that explicitly approve treaties, without going on the world stage in support and groaning. So this isn't too heavy? What was the situation, for example, in countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Denmark and Italy? Moreover, we can already enforce the express approval at this time. Does that also cause problems in international traffic? Does the government expect more treaties to be explicitly approved? If so, does that mean that treaties with a binding provision are now being implicitly approved? Doesn't the Minister think that's undesirable? Another question is the significance of express approval for all liaison. The initiator repeatedly states that he does not wish to affect or colour the power of the court to determine whether a provision is binding on everyone. At the same time, he stressed that the judge had to take account of the explicit view of the legislator. I do not think that this is wrong, but the crucial question is whether or not the explicit approval of a treaty is relevant in answering the question of whether it is a binding provision. If so, in what way? Is it the intention of the initiator that Parliament should also make a more explicit statement on this commitment? I wouldn't mind if that happened, but that may have a bearing on the balance between the judge and the legislator. As far as we are concerned, the judge must always be able to keep that freedom for himself. I have a final lack of clarity. The aim of the initiator is to clarify the role of Parliament in establishing a binding Treaty provision. Suppose you go along with that, I wonder if the bill should actually be tightened up to achieve that. My impression is that the government's motives for submitting a treaty for express approval continue to be guessed otherwise. Why has the initiator not considered, for example, requiring the government by law to state in the explanatory memorandum why it is submitting a treaty for express approval? Why was the same not done for the note in case of tacit approval? This has the advantage of giving the legislator a little more guidance to a judge for his interpretation of international conventions and their general bindingness. A possible parliamentary debate may then be given more substance. I do not, of course, take it away from the judge's own weighting; there he is again. I'd like to hear from the initiator if he's weighed that up. I'm rounding up. This legislative proposal potentially better regulates Parliament's involvement in international decision-making and treaties, but there are still questions and uncertainties that affect the effectiveness of this proposal. Our final assessment of the initiative proposal therefore depends on the response of the initiator and his advisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u3	Mr. Chairman. An initiative proposal always takes the necessary efforts and time from a Member of Parliament. Therefore, first of all, congratulations from the PVV Group on the author of this initiative legislative proposal. The legislative proposal forces the government to state explicitly in future whether a proposed treaty actually contains all binding provisions. In the opinion of the PVV Group, this is an improvement. Moreover, in future, such a treaty will always be dealt with explicitly in Parliament; tacit approval is no longer possible. The PVV also considers it to be a positive development that this gives the judge better guidance on how the legislator intended a treaty. This can only be promoted if it has been discussed in the Chamber. The PVV Group therefore welcomes such a development. However, my group would like to know how many international treaties the government actually concludes without the House of Representatives talking about them. If I have seen it correctly, I do not read anything about it in the documents that are currently included in the legislative proposal. Has this been investigated by the initiator? Maybe he can go into that further. My group also has a question about the situation in which the government considers that it is not necessary to ask Parliament for approval. I therefore refer to the situations laid down in Article 7 of the National Law on the Adoption and Publication of Conventions. On the basis of the derogations provided for in Article 7 (b) and (e) of that law, if the parliament disagrees with the government, it will be possible to force a fifth of the constitutional number of Members to express their views. However, what about the other exception to the approval requirement provided for in Article 7? Does the initiator not need to strengthen Parliament's grip on this point? I invite the initiator to reflect on that. My group would also like to point out that the legislative proposal does not affect an important part of the Dutch legal order, namely the law that the European Union enacts and directly interferes with our system. My group regrets that Parliament is no longer explicitly involved in this. In fact, we see only one way of improving this situation, namely the withdrawal of the Netherlands from the European Union. I would also like to hear the opinion of the initiator on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Mr Taverne very much. It's a lot of work to make an initiative law. Nor is it easy, especially when you make a law with so many constitutional, constitutional hooks and eyes. The petitioner wants the House of Representatives to pay more attention to the approval of treaties concluded by the government. There aren't few of them, soon about 50 a year. These treaties can have a major impact, including on the lives of citizens. This is certainly the case in the case of treaties which, as it is called, can connect anyone and which can therefore also play a role in the case-law. Many treaties are silently approved by the Chamber. It is not always easy to determine whether a treaty contains any binding provision. For that, we are partly dependent on the government. This makes an assessment at the moment and involves any reactions from the Chamber. We must draw this up from quarterly reports and annual lists, and on that basis we must decide whether or not we want to discuss a treaty. The complainant is absolutely right that this is not enough. All these lists, all these treaties, all these texts: it is not always easy for us and it is not always our priority. The petitioner now proposes that by law treaties which contain provisions that can be binding on everyone according to their content should always be approved by parliament. This proposal is convincing in its simplicity, but nevertheless raises a number of pressing questions. First of all, why was a law chosen and not, for example, an internal regulation for the Chamber? Has the author considered making a proposal, for example, in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, which helps us to better assess whether we want to deal with a treaty? I ask the Minister if the quarterly reports and annual lists can be clarified. Can it be made more visible or, if so, when there are provisions that could connect everyone? I have another question for the Minister: can it always be made clear in advance whether a treaty contains such provisions, or whether this is partly dependent on the judgment of the judge? And I think Mrs Schouten was right to point out what if the government says "no" and the judge later says "yes"? I also ask the Minister what the adoption of this bill will mean in practice. What kind of workload would that bring for the Chamber? Could that lead to unnecessary delays? If so, is that bad? I say to the initiator that we find this proposal particularly sympathetic, but do not yet know whether it is proportionate. In any case, the SP is willing to look at other ways to improve our monitoring work in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u5	Mr. Chairman. I too begin, of course, by congratulating the initiator of this bill and those who supported it. We have not only seen the initiative legislative proposal itself with the explanatory memorandum, but we have also done two extensive rounds of written preparation. So we've all come here to the ice. It's not about the least. It is about the core of our work, namely whether we as a parliament are sufficiently involved in and have sufficient control over matters that concern our country, namely treaties that can also affect domestic issues. As far as the subject matter is concerned, the author thus has the core of all of us. I'll get to the content. I feel as if we had ended up here in the case of 'Taverne vs. international legal order' and then in the third round. Earlier, in the Chamber, I was able to cross swords with him about the passage and functioning of the European Court of Human Rights, and not so long ago also about the Kampala Protocol on the International Criminal Court, and that was, in my view, a more frequent one. So I'd say, "Here we are again." However, we are going to do it. As far as I am concerned, before we go into all the legal details that have already been touched by a number of previous speakers, the question is: if you come up with a proposal for a legislative amendment, what exactly is the problem you are talking about? Is there a problem that we see in our society? Is there a problem that directly affects our Parliament? And is that problem big enough to talk about proportionality to initiate the difficult process of a legislative change? If you translate the above, you also come to the question of whether we have sufficient confidence in ourselves. We are all now seeing the Treaties, in quarterly reports and during procedural meetings. Then it is also a question of having a political antenna, not so much as an individual parliamentarians, but all of us, with our common power of thinking, to say that it is a treaty that does not require explicit consent, but that nevertheless affects matters that we need to discuss further. As far as I am concerned, it also affects confidence in jurisdiction, because even if we did, there would still be a role for the courts. Are we confident that the judge is sufficiently well-equipped to make this kind of assessment? I think we should have that confidence in ourselves and within our jurisdiction. This brings me to the four points raised by the Council of State in response to Mr Taverne's bill. Those points aren't tender, I'll be honest with you. The Council of State says that the added value of a legal requirement for explicit approval of treaties that may contain any binding treaty provision is not sufficiently substantiated by the initiator. The parliamentary involvement to be sought could also be achieved differently. The Council of State is also in favour of maintaining the exception to agreements of a technical nature. Finally, the Council of State states that these proposals are likely to provide only very limited guidance in the judicial assessment of whether or not a treaty provision is binding on everyone. So that's solid. As far as I am concerned, this calls for a firm burden of proof to show that there is a real problem here. That is precisely the reason for my group to ask several times in the written round to provide examples of treaties that went wrong, something that went wrong in our parliamentary control. To my disappointment, there is always one example. This is a WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. That is the only example that is really being worked out. I think it's a little thin to name a problem based on a subset of one. In fact, I would ask the initiator not only to explain how this particular treaty has happened in legal terms, but also what social problem it has caused. That is what we are here for. We are not here to do legal work, we are here to discuss things that go wrong in society. I ask the initiator to respond to that in his reply. Moreover, in the first written round we held, the initiator mentioned that it showed how thorough he was in the process of doing another treaty, namely the General Convention on Social Security between the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Kingdom of Morocco, which was discussed in this Chamber in the 1971-1972 part-session. So that treaty is as old as the petitioner himself. That indicates the security of his work. It could also point to the limited nature of what is being discussed during that whole period of 44 or 45 years. The applicant's argument is that, in the 1970s, extra attention could have been paid to the consequences of the approval procedure, i.e., expensive procedures could have been avoided. I think that is a firm statement, because that presupposes that the problems discussed in Parliament last year, for example, with regard to the Social Insurance Convention, which was very well spoken, could have been predicted as early as 1971 or 1972. I would like to put a question mark on that. If we go to the other side, then my observation is that we do have a good tradition of getting treaties that demand them firmly through Parliament. I already mentioned the Criminal Court and the Kampala Treaty. We've treated them quite thoroughly with all of us. Recently, this Chamber also spoke in detail, including the effect on our interiors, about the UN Convention on Disabled Persons. This is an excellent example of how we should do our work, including thinking about the consequences. The third example is the association agreement with Ukraine. Not only has there been a parliamentary debate on it, but thanks to the initiative law on the referendum, the Dutch people will soon be able to express their opinion on it. In other words, there are examples of a firm discussion of the substance. I would like to hear from the initiator what examples he thinks he can avoid with this initiative law. Back to the Council of State, which does indeed give us a hand or a suggestion on how we can better deal with the issue of this type of treaties. He says that "it would be possible to examine whether it would be sufficient to draw up a government note, at the request of the Chamber, which would give the government a more detailed definition of the criteria and rules of thumb which it is currently applying in making referrals in one or the other form of approval." I think that's a sensible handshake. I ask the initiator, but also his advisor, present here today, to reflect on that. It is perhaps also appropriate to compare this with the fact sheet for the assessment of new Commission proposals that we have had for a number of years. Proposals coming from Europe will be assessed by default on subsidiarity, proportionality and also on transposition into national laws and regulations, including financial implications. You could also apply that to the provisions that bind everyone. Does the petitioner see any possibilities in that hand-off or suggestion made by the Council of State? I ask the same question to the Foreign Minister. The core is to find the right balance between good parliamentary control or involvement and speed. That speed is certainly important. I'd like to defend that statement. At the procedural meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we discussed today a proposal for a treaty to establish a tribunal for Kosovo. In Kosovo, the establishment of such a tribunal is an important and acute issue. It is undesirable for the internal political and security situation to take longer before such a tribunal can be established. This underlines, in my view, that we must be careful to ensure that this speed is at stake by looking for more control. My question to Mr Taverne and the Minister is exactly what is happening with that speed. I believe that I have read somewhere in the documents that there is a risk of a delay resulting in an average throughput of four months, as is currently the case, up to 11 months. That's not nauseous. I would ask both gentlemen to reflect on this and to illustrate this with examples. In conclusion. Of course, it is fine to discuss and, if necessary, fight about the application of international law, but we do need to talk about real problems. That is my core question. I would like to give the initiator his initiative to have this discussion here, but we must avoid fighting windmills like a Don Quixote, which is to deal with problems that my group does not think have been sufficiently made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add my voice to those Members who have spoken with appreciation towards the initiator and the supporters. We too have some experience with an initiative proposal and we know how much work that is. One is more than the other, but it is always worthwhile and appreciated that a colleague is also entitled to legislative work in this legislative body. My sincere appreciation for that. The relationship between international law and Dutch law is complicated. Over the years, many treaties have been concluded, the consequences of which cannot always be seen. The SGP thinks it is excellent that this is being looked at critically, and this applies not only to links with the European Union, but also to other international links. Especially now that international law takes precedence over national law on the basis of Article 34 of the Constitution, caution is needed. That is all the more true when we are talking about a binding provision. Without the use of the parliament, the most far-reaching treaties can be concluded. However, parliamentary involvement is not guaranteed by tacit approval. The SGP appreciates Mr Taverne's commitment to correct this by means of this bill. He is therefore in line with the report of the Constitutional Commission of the States a few years ago. I am not hiding it: the SGP is sympathetic to the purpose of this bill. Indeed, silent approval does not automatically mean that the Treaty amendment in question does not have much to do with it. On the contrary. It is of course important that the parliamentarians of the First and Second Chambers themselves be alert. That's what it starts with. This responsibility should be fulfilled in consultation with and on the basis of careful information from the government. That is why I ask Mr Taverne first of all the following question. If his proposal is adopted, what more is needed to ensure that Parliament's involvement is not only formally but also effectively increased? We ask the government to indicate how it is in practice considered whether an express or tacit approval of a treaty is necessary. How does this balance generally take place? Can a note state what the current criteria and the points of consideration are? With this request, the SGP is in line with the opinion of the Council of State in order to gain a clearer insight into this: what is involved, what criteria apply, how does it work? The SGP would like the government to make clear at all times whether there is any binding provision, both in negotiations on a treaty and in agreements submitted for approval. Of course, it is not always possible to determine exactly in which cases that will be the case. This has just been raised by a number of colleagues. However, this cannot mean that the government cannot give an indication. I would therefore like to ask whether the government is prepared to state by any proposed convention whether there is any binding provision and what provision it concerns. The SGP then wonders why it is not stipulated in the legislative proposal that it should also be clear when it is explicitly adopted whether there is any binding provision. I would like to ask Mr Taverne why this was not chosen. The more explicit the motivation, the clearer it is for everyone. The SGP further wonders whether Mr Taverne's proposal is not too limited. Shouldn't the transfer of state powers to international bodies also be treated with extreme restraint with tacit approval? At that time, among other things, the State Committee pointed this out. It is also advocated in professional literature. How does Mr. Taverne feel about that? In the literature, however, it is suggested that this bill carries out a firm attack on the trias politician. We have not been able to recognise that. This initiative proposal does not mean that the trias politicians are basically affected. The author is right to point out that this legislative proposal does not undermine the powers of the judiciary. The judge may make his own assessment of the commitment, but if government and parliament have discussed it, then those considerations will be an important aspect in his judgment. We believe that this can be done with care. Another counter-argument that is being put forward is that the bill is delaying. The SGP is genuinely questioning whether this is really the case. Indeed, only written procedure and handling as a hammer piece are still possible, including with this initiative legislative proposal. Are there really many treaties that are so urgent that they need to be ratified immediately? Can the applicant and the government argue how much delay can be expected and in what specific cases could this be an objection? In that case, can the government not be satisfied with an urgent appeal to the parliament to speed up the process or to expressly allow the procedure for tacit approval to be followed? I look forward to the reply by the petitioner and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is not very visible to Mr Taverne in box K and his advisor sitting next to him, but I was just wondering what consequences it would have for Mr Taverne's attitude if he was hanging out with his advisor, the Foreign Minister, for a while? Would that have any effect on Mr Taverne's position in many cases in the Chamber? It's a question. I don't know. He came to me when I saw them both. It's called a speckling stage. I would like to congratulate Mr Taverne and his staff for taking this initiative. The right of initiative is a great asset in the Chamber. We have to deal with that carefully. It is a good thing that Members of Parliament, despite other busy activities, take advantage of it and take the initiative. With the initiator, our group supports the importance of parliamentary involvement in establishing binding treaties. We also attach great importance to the democratic legitimacy of treaties. These treaties can, in theory and practice, bind the Netherlands far and wide. They can impose obligations on the state, but also citizens and businesses. In principle, the States-General must agree to such conventions, and that is not for nothing. If a treaty contains a provision that deviates from the constitution, express approval is required. Otherwise, tacit approval may be sufficient. We understand the fundamental point made by Mr Taverne. According to the current system, citizens may be bound by certain obligations under the Treaties, without Parliament having addressed them. These are all binding provisions of the Treaty. They go beyond national law, above the Constitution even, on the basis of Article 94 of the Constitution. The current approval procedure often does not explicitly address the question of whether there is any binding Treaty provision. Eventually, judgment in such a situation is up to the judge. The judge is often unable to include the legislator's considerations in his judgement in this matter. The CDA Group sees a gap in this, but it is not yet convinced of the proposer's proposal, namely a legal requirement for explicit approval of all treaties which may contain binding Treaty provisions. The question is whether the amendment proposed by Mr Taverne is proportionate to the problem he wants to solve and the objective he wants to achieve. A number of colleagues have already asked this question. Can Mr Taverne explain the extent of the problem in practice? How often does it happen that treaties are approved with all binding Treaty provisions, without the legislator having been able to give an opinion on them? How often do judges rule on such provisions, without involving the legislator's judgement? On the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, the CDA also has a number of questions, both for the initiator and for its advisor, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The National Law on the Adoption and Publication of Conventions has opted for the possibility of tacit approval of treaties. Not every treaty is important enough for express approval. The question is whether the importance of the requirement of express approval is proportionate to the issues and issues to be dealt with by the various treaties. How much longer will approval procedures take when tacit approval lapses and whenever explicit approval is required? What does this mean for the workload of Parliament and the government? To what extent will the effectiveness of the government in international traffic be reduced if the ratification of treaties by the Netherlands is delayed? How do other European countries do this with the adoption of treaties? The Council of State strongly recommends that an adaptation of practice to be achieved by the States General itself by better and more intensive use of existing powers should be sufficient. How does the initiator feel about that? Can the problem he has identified not be solved entirely or almost entirely? As far as we can see now, it is above all a possible problem, because it has not yet occurred to a large extent. If we want to achieve such a practice, the Chamber also needs the government's handles. I therefore ask the government whether it is prepared to make it known explicitly whenever it considers that there is any binding provision of the Treaty. Is it true that this often does not happen now, as the initiator states? The CDA invites the Government to present a note explaining the form in which it submits treaties to the States-General for approval, with a view to paying particular attention to the binding nature of the provision in question. Is the government prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u8	Mr. Chairman. Appreciation of the VVD side for the initiator and his supporters. An initiative proposal is a lot of work, especially in the preliminary phase. This deserves a great deal of appreciation. What does this draft law amending the National Law on the adoption and publication of treaties with a view to abolishing the possibility of tacit approval of treaties with all binding provisions? Following the opinions of two state committees, this draft law aims to ensure that treaties with provisions that can be binding on anyone must now be explicitly approved by law. "Provisions that can be linked by anyone" - which we are discussing today - are provisions that can impose obligations on citizens or provisions to which citizens can derive rights. The cabinet is negative about the initiator's proposal. The VVD Group really doesn't understand why. Of course, the Netherlands can still operate effectively on the world stage; this supporter of the initiator is entrusted with that. And, of course, a Member of Parliament can put a debate on the plenary agenda; he can do that now, and he will be able to do that later. But in the opinion of our group, the importance is greater. In the trias politicians, judges have the task of allowing the context and purpose of treaties to work in our society in an individual case. It is only natural and desirable for judges to take account of the intention and wish of the legislator. That legislator is not only the legislator in relation to the great substantive matter, but also the authorising legislator. For this reason, an explicit discussion in both Chambers can help. In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, no more than the judge can take the portee of the legislative discussions and hence of the approval discussions on treaties into account when interpreting treaties. With the initiator and the Council of State, members of the VVD Group note that in the current practice of approving treaties, insufficient explicit attention is paid to whether a treaty contains binding provisions for all. We share the starting point of the initiator that it must be clear what the Netherlands is committed to in concluding a treaty and that this consideration should initially be made by the legislator. As mentioned earlier, it is important that the opinion and the intention of the legislator be known to them, the judges, who are responsible for explaining such a law in the individual case. In the opinion of the VVD Group, the proposer's proposal is not about maintaining the balance between the rapid and efficient ratification of treaties on the one hand and the maximum parliamentary involvement in the drafting of treaties on the other. That is an interest, but that is not the most important thing for us. We know the ideas of the initiator and the government on this point, but for our group this is not the main factor. It is important, however, for the government to indicate at an early stage which treaties are binding on everyone. And I must say that it bothers our group that the Minister for Foreign Affairs seems to be in charge of an administrative apparatus which does not keep track of the treaties which may be binding on everyone. I'd like to get a reflection from the cabinet on this. Is this right or isn't this right? I have another question for the initiator. Why is an evaluation clause added by letter of amendment? Is there so little confidence in the own insight that underpins the bill? With the initiator, our group believes that it is irrelevant to this bill whether more or less Treaty provisions will be made binding on everyone in the future under Article 94 of the Constitution. It is ultimately up to the judge in the individual case to give an opinion on this subject, after hearing the views of the legislator. Moreover, an advisory referendum, which Mr Servaes has already spoken about, is not blocked by this initiative legislative proposal. It is more a question of whether Parliament is doing the job well in a representative democracy and has all the possibilities available to it. With the initiator, our group believes that the question of whether a treaty provision is appropriate to connect everyone should not be left entirely, or perhaps not at all, to the courts alone. The dialogue between the powers in the trias politicians will only be promoted. I would like to receive the opinion of the initiator on this point. Do my group members read page 5 of the note on the basis of the report correctly when they find that the judge "takes into account the explicit view of the legislator" in the interpretation? The VVD Group is proud that central to the constitutional thinking of the initiator is a prominent place of the parliament within our state system. This fits in with the tradition of liberal thinking. I see Mr Sjoerdsma has left the Chamber, but I spoke about the tradition of liberal thinking. It's a good thing he'll listen in! Moreover, is the initiator aware that there is a risk that more of the provisions of the Treaties will be made binding on everyone if they are discussed in greater detail by the legislator? Is this a consequence that the initiator wanted, given his earlier explicit views and ideas on the relationship between international law and national law? Finally. After me, another speaker, Mr Sjoerdsma of the D66 Group, will speak. It must be good for the initiator to know that he has already secured that group's support for this bill. I also refer to the Acts of the 2011 - 2012, section No. 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No 31570, No That was a nice event on May 3, 2012. Mrs Stientje van Veldhoven of D66 has the floor. "D66 is certainly also about strengthening parliamentary involvement in the adoption of treaties, but not in the sense of Mr Van der Staaij's legislative proposal, but along the lines of the report of the State Committee, i.e. requiring explicit parliamentary approval for treaties that create powers that directly bind citizens. Can the Minister assure me, therefore, that Mrs Van Veldhoven 'will come up with a proposal on this point?' That was on May 3, 2012. The proposal did not come from the cabinet, but from the initiator. However, it is always good to see that our liberal friends in this Parliament felt that this was already explicitly necessary on 3 May 2012. I look forward very much to the intervention of the eighth speaker who is about to speak. I am pleased to be able to reply to that in the event of interruption, and I look forward to Mr Sjoerdsma's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u9	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u10	In fact, I am very pleased that my colleagues in the VVD are paying so much attention to D66's position that I hardly have to do that anymore. I shall shortly announce in my own term what the position of D66 is today. I would like to tell Mr Bitch two things. First of all, a small matter, namely that the general consultation in question took place on 11 April 2012. I would also like to ask Mr Teven what he himself thought of Mr Taverne's bill on 11 April 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u11	On 11 April 2012, I didn't like Mr Taverne's bill at all, because I wasn't in this Chamber at the time and I didn't have a position on it. It is true that I was in a cabinet at some point and that there was no positive opinion in cabinet circles on this subject, not in Rutte I and not in Rutte II. This is without prejudice to the fact that the D66 Group has very explicit views on this proposal. In my view, the adoption of treaties in 2012 was no different than it was today, in 2016. We still believe that there should be parliamentary involvement. All the speakers praise that here today too. I am eagerly looking forward to the contribution of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u12	The attention of the VVD group to the D66 group is simply heartwarming. This also shows that there may still be something of a liberal feeling in that group. Knock it off. Mr Teeven referred to "Kabinskringen," Rutte I and Rutte II. I know that Mr Teven is not allowed to clap out of the Council of Ministers. I will not ask him to do that either, but perhaps he can zoom in on those cabinet rings a little more precisely, on Mr Teven himself. What was Mr Teeven's view at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u13	In the event of interruption, I would like to give up something of this after Mr Sjoerdsma has supported this legislative proposal from the initiator in his contribution. I am also pleased that Mr Sjoerdsma welcomes the liberal approach of this bill. I was also pleased when I read what Mr Van Veldhoven said about it in this Parliament on 3 May 2012. This indicates that D66's plea for openness over the years has the same policy and that we do not have to expect a 180 degree pirouette so directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u14	Mr. Chairman. It is always a pleasure to talk about a colleague's own-initiative legislation. It is, of course, an even greater pleasure to speak shortly after the speaker from the group that tabled the law. I will explain in a moment what my group thinks of this proposal. First of all, I would like to thank the initiator for his hard work. That seems to me to be very important and colleagues have done the same for me. I would also like to thank the staff who are behind him. This is very much appreciated, as is the case with the other two legislative proposals on the initiative of Mr Taverne. He's in "K" today for the first time. I am eagerly looking forward to the other proposals. In my group's view, Mr Taverne's proposal has a noble purpose. Mr Teven was quite right about that. The democratic legitimacy of the approval of the conclusion, amendment and termination of treaties is enhanced. That's crucial. Since I became a Member of Parliament here in September 2012, shortly after the debate that Mr Teeven referred to, I have experienced in person how important it is not to let some treaties pass, but to deal with them actively here. I would like to mention a few of them, like colleagues Servaes. For example, the Kampala amendments have been rejected by my group. We could not do that alone, because the procedure requires more seats, but I thought it was important that we spoke about this explicitly, because there were big hooks and eyes on that treaty. We have also discussed in detail the association agreement with Ukraine. That's what a referendum is about. This Chamber has discussed in detail all the rights and obligations arising from the UN Convention on Disabled Persons. That is also the big question before us today. Is this bill now regulating the strengthening of democratic legitimacy, or is it mainly bureaucracy and ambiguity? The latter is immediately the question I would like to put to Mr Teeven. A normal treaty is normally decided by parliament either silently or by simple majority by law. Quietly, the approval will be given if the treaty is submitted to Parliament and 30 MPs or 15 MPs do not request explicit approval within 30 days. The law also provides that treaties which differ from the Constitution or require such derogations must always be approved explicitly and thus by law. For treaties with all binding provisions, the initiator now wishes to add that they should always be treated as if they were different from the Constitution. What are all these binding provisions? In plain Dutch, these are provisions that create an invoking right for ordinary citizens, such as the right to privacy or the right to property. That brings me to the key question. The key question is: what problem is this law a solution to? As I have done twice before in a written contribution, I would like to ask again today: what treaties which have now been implicitly approved, if necessary only in the last three years, in order to make it easier for the initiator to have expressly approved, when that has not happened? If that had also changed something, I would like to ask the initiator further. In fact, I also started by saying that this is partly about Parliament's confidence in ourselves, the confidence that we are awake enough to clarify certain treaties. If there are not even 30 Members of Parliament, Mr Taverne knows very well how things are; his own group can do it on its own, I would like to say whether 15 Members of Parliament are bothering to ask for explicit approval, that approval law is not easily passed by a two-thirds majority, I ask Mr Taverne. What is the outcome of the procedure advocated by the initiator? Isn't it bureaucratic? It also results in delays, as Mr Knops said before me. Silent approval lasts on average four months. The express procedure lasts eleven months. This does not always relate to some important urgent matters; the Kosovo Tribunal has already been mentioned in this context. The nature of such a treaty, which is still being submitted silently and could soon be expressly approved, does not always justify this delay, the Council of State believes. So the question to Mr Taverne is: what are the benefits of these seven months? I see that Mr Teeven wishes to discuss with me the position of my party today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u15	A liberal party like D66, of course, always has a consistent line of action. I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma: what is the change in his party between, on the one hand, the red tape that Mr Sjoerdsma sees today and on which he asks the initiator and the cabinet for an explanation, and, on the other hand, the explicit position calling for explicit parliamentary approval of treaties binding on citizens? Mr Sjoerdsma has explained well what kind of treaties they are. What's the 180° pirouette in that almost four years? Why is that? Is it true that Mr Sjoerdsma is a bit chatty about the left, or does he just really think he should have a different opinion? What's that based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u16	Mr Teeven rightly quoted the 2012 debate, in which our spokesperson, Mr Van Veldhoven, as Mr Teeven said, made a very strong point of strengthening democratic legitimacy. That's right. But I also have to say, although it may be a bit harsh for Mr Teeven, that the very way in which that idea was developed by Mr Taverne, Mr Taverne's VVD colleague, my group has come to the conclusion that this is not such a good idea. That is a pity; I can imagine that Mr Teven finds that annoying. I can also imagine Mr Teven coming to me with what we said at the time. However, the drafting of this proposal has shown a number of things. Let me just let it go; then we will be clear about it immediately. First of all, there is a lot of ourselves, and I have seen and think that there is room for ourselves to increase parliamentary involvement. There's still a lot of space there. The Rules of Procedure: I have not seen any proposal. Nor have I seen any proposals from the Minister, by the way. That is what my group, Mr Teven, has rightly said. I have also taken a serious look at the problem which is at the root of this problem. I myself have looked at what treaties my group has two feelings for afterward. We have also asked the initiator and there is actually no example. If there is no example, let me be honest: there is one example, but that is an example whose social impact is actually unclear. I can imagine that this is disappointing for Mr Teeven, but I think it is the most realistic position. I also secretly believe that Mr Teeven knows this from previous experience in 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u17	Of course, Mr Sjoerdsma may ask all questions to the initiator he considers necessary. Maybe the bill needs to be changed. The basic starting point of the D66 Group in 2012 was explicit approval of treaties binding citizens. Yeah, I get that. The judge, Mr Sjoerdsma's party, is always very attached to the independence of the court, after all, in individual cases it is necessary to explain those treaties to citizens of the Netherlands for the purposes of law. I think the position taken in 2012 is very logical. It's not a disappointment. I just want to help the D66 Group a little bit in liberal thinking. Is it not better that Mr Sjoerdsma simply asks the initiator to file this and file it and that he says: we asked for that law ourselves; the cabinet did not come with it, so our thanks to the initiator is great? Isn't that just a little chic? Or does Mr Sjoerdsma simply say today: then the D66 Group asked for explicit parliamentary approval of a law that binds the citizens and today it is going overboard, because we have jokes on citizens like D66? That's good, too. That is also a point of view. It's okay, but just say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u18	There are a lot of insinuations, to put it this way, in this interruption by Mr Bitches, I see him now also laughing a little guiltyly, which I would like to cast far from me, for example the suggestion that we Dutch people would not take seriously. On the contrary, I would like to say. This is also something that has changed since 2012: the possibility to hold a referendum, the possibility to give Dutch people the chance to pull the emergency brake if necessary. I do not need to remind Mr Teeven that this was not just the case in 2012, but also now that our groups were opposed to each other and opposed to each other. Is there a recent example of that? Yes, we all know that: the referendum on the association agreement with Ukraine. That is a very clear example. I would like to respond to Mr Teven. Let me do that, because he pretends what we said in 2012 is one-on-one what Mr Taverne has now worked out. No, that is absolutely not the case. I can take into account the recommendations of the State Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and my colleague Mr Van Veldhoven has referred to this, I think that Mr Teeven should look at this very carefully and correctly. As a rightful liberal, I note that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in the process of tickling, restricting and holding back treaties from which rights arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u19	Rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u20	This is important because it makes a big difference. Of those duties, you could say that you should take a very serious look at them. However, the VVD is about rights and duties and I think: well, that is more of a fear of international law and human rights treaties. I just don't share that fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u21	Finally, Mr Teeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u22	It is not so much a question of fear of human rights. Fear isn't the right word. It is more about judges who interpret treaties themselves without taking into account the intentions of the legislator. Then I think that Mr Taverne's proposal is very good. If we have a good discussion here, it is for the courts, in the individual case, to provide a basis for the way in which he has to explain such a treaty. Isn't that the only thing a party like D66 can do? I would almost like to say that is my question to Mr Sjoerdsma: give the initiator a chance now, take a good look at what you yourself thought of it and wait for the answers to be given before you hold on to such a deceptive statement as you are doing a little bit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u23	Of course, that's striking. So far, I have only asked questions, but Mr Teven has already called it a delinquency. That will not help my group to cross the line, I fear for him. But I might have to say something about that judge. I should like to say that the VVD Group is perhaps trying to reduce the primacy and the responsibility of the judge. This may apply not only to this treaty, but also to a wider one. Maybe that's how I read this. Let me ask that question right away. Does the initiator really want to restrict the judicial freedom to interpret a treaty by submitting this initiative law? Does the initiative law really mean that? I see there's been a shakedown, so that question was answered immediately. However, it is a serious question, which we need to consider. Mr. Chairman. I had come to the point of bureaucracy. I see that Mr Teeven has now sat down and is no longer on the interrupting microphone, but we should have talked about this for a while. This proposal is, of course, bureaucratic. It leads to work if you are obliged to present all these treaties here in the way the initiator sees it for himself. I ask the Minister how much capacity, time, effort and money it would take to do this in the way the VVD now proposes. Something tells me that this takes more time, money and manpower, and that it does not necessarily produce a different result than the result we see in parliamentary practice. Now the crucial treaties, so the treaties we all say will have a big impact, will be taken out. However, there are also treaties that we say: we really do like it. Those treaties aren't going anywhere. I ask that question to Minister Koenders. I come to the definition of 'any binding provision'. The initiator does not want and cannot define that concept in concrete terms. It concerns both the text of the provision and the history of the treaty. From this point of view, it has to be deduced whether a provision is binding on everyone and therefore has direct effect according to our Constitution. Does the initiator see with me the risk that the government and Parliament will soon disagree on whether a treaty has any binding provision? It is also possible, for example, that the Lower House and the Upper House differ in their opinion on this matter. What effect would that have on the possibility of tacit or explicit approval of the legislative proposal? Of course, it can always be that a parliament makes a mistake. I have already said this to Mr Teven. Even if all 150 Members of Parliament are paying close attention, it may happen that something slips through and we have to say afterwards: that was not convenient. It may also be that a majority in the Chamber is in favour of something, but voters disagree. There are, however, possibilities for correction. My party has always been a great supporter of this. My party strongly supports a balance between powers. For example, my party strongly supports constitutional review. I would like to have the VVD on our side. It is something that the initiator has tried to block to my great disappointment in his capacity as spokesperson on fundamental rights. That is why it is so good that a consultative referendum for voters can recently be requested. Well, I guess I'll just close that up then. Such a referendum will give voters the opportunity to slow down when they say about a treaty: whoa, wait a minute, that is not the intention. So the key question is: what problem is this really a solution to? I hope that the initiator will give an in-depth answer to that question, also taking into account the opinion of the Council of State. I would also like to say to Mr Teeven that this is an important opinion which I hope his group has also taken note of. For what problem is this really a solution? Let the initiator make that concrete. If he can really make that very concrete, I am, of course, open to looking at this with sympathy. At the moment, however, after all the written rounds and in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, my group still finds that difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-03-tweedekamer-16.u24	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. As I said at the opening of the debate, the response will take place at a later date, of course after consultation with the initiator. I wish him every success.
