ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the Upper House. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Mrs Van Weerdenburg wishes to begin her speech. Can I therefore ask Members to leave the Chamber as soon as possible if they have another sitting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the European Commission's proposal on visa liberalisation in Ukraine. The PVV insisted on discussing this issue with the Minister. As far as the other parties are concerned, this debate should never have taken place. After all, my party was the only one in the committee who wanted to deal with it at all. The lack of enthusiasm is already evident from the very short list of speakers. Perhaps my colleagues were already thinking about the summer recess, but the lack of interest may also be due to the fact that this is a proposal from the European Commission, an apparatus that does not tolerate opposition on its route to political union. That is why most parties want to turn a blind eye when there is a European stamp on a proposal. Next thing you know, Frans Timmermans is crying again. However, every salty tear is nourishment for the budding flower called democracy. This proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u3	I was the only one who asked written questions. If I understand correctly, the PVV didn't join it. So I do not understand the remark that I was apparently already absent with summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u4	I was talking about the mood for a debate. This proposal will ensure that more than 44 million Ukrainians will be able to travel to Europe, the Netherlands without a visa. It is a very unfortunate proposal. Ukraine is a country that is partly torn apart by war and has an economic level that barely exceeds that of a developing country. It's a country that's corrupted and corrupted. It is at the bottom of the global corruption index, in position 130; the Netherlands is in position 5. I still have a number of staggering figures: unemployment is above 10%, one in four Ukrainians lives below the poverty line and inflation is almost 50%. In short, this country has nothing to do with the European Union, but it has nothing to do with it. Anyone with a little common sense can see the flow of economic fortune seekers coming from Ukraine, and that at a time when the Netherlands is already almost falling under the sheltersunami that it has been struggling with for some time. The figures from the latest asylum monitor, an investigation commissioned by the Ministry of Justice, do not lie: about 47% of Dutch people are afraid of labour market displacement, 59% fear displacement in the housing market, 54% are seriously concerned about safety in the Netherlands and 63% are awake from the future and the cost of our social welfare system. Instead of taking these legitimate concerns of the Dutch people to heart and firmly closing the borders, this cabinet only invites more lucky seekers. Whether you're from Syria, Eritrea or Ukraine, the red carpet is explained to you in the Netherlands, as long as you're poor and pathetic. By the way, this only applies to poor pathetics who come from abroad. If you are a poor Dutch person, you can go to hell, for example on the waiting list for a rental house. We talked about this last week in this house. Our Dutch elders are certainly not interested in this cabinet. They are only an easy prey to keep cutting back, because they have no strength to protest anymore. Could the Secretary of State perhaps explain where the government's urge to stand up for other peoples and for foreign institutions comes from? Why does the cabinet ignore the will of the Dutch people? Why is it more important for the cabinet what the EU or Ukraine wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u5	I hear Mrs Van Weerdenburg suggest that all these issues are related to the visa requirement. But she knows, I hope, that this proposal is intended, without applying for a visa to an EU country on vacation or for doing business, and not to work or study here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u6	I see the CDA is already in denial. There's just a huge stream of Ukrainians, economic fortune seekers, coming here. We already have too many of them in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u7	Mrs Van Weerdenburg, that is wrong. You also know that this is the visa that no longer needs to be applied for, and that this does not involve work, housing, care and so on from the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u8	We have heard such stories before, including about Poland and other Eastern Europeans, for example. Of these, only 10,000 would come to the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u9	I'd like to hear from you if I'm right, yes or no. Otherwise, I have to say that you have not read the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u10	I'll answer. That this is not the answer Mrs Oomen wants to hear, there is nothing I can do about it. So I asked the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u11	May I continue with that, Mr. Chairman? Mrs Van Weerdenburg makes the comparison with the Poles. Poland is EU citizens, who can make use of free movement. Ukrainian citizens are people who will be able to stay here for up to three months without a visa. Does Mrs Van Weerdenburg recognise that distinction? Does it recognise that freedom of movement is a much greater and more comprehensive freedom than the possibility of staying somewhere without a visa for three months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u12	Yeah, sure. I also referred to this as an example of a prediction by the cabinet that did not go far. In fact, such expectations appear to be disappointing in practice. However, when we talk about visa-free travel, of course we are also talking about Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia. A report by the EU itself shows that, since visa liberalisation, there has been a huge increase in the number of asylum applications made by people from those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u13	Okay, just so we're clear, you're gonna distance yourself from the comparison with Poland and other Eastern Europeans who are members of the EU and are therefore Union citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u14	I can reassure you: we know that difference. I mentioned the number of Poles predicted to come to the Netherlands and the final figure of 150 000 as an example of a prediction of the cabinet which turned out to be grotesquely wrong. I would have stayed with the questions to the Secretary of State. Why is it more important for the cabinet what the EU or Ukraine wants? And please don't bring up the killer that the Netherlands has to do with international agreements. In the coming months, too, there will be a great deal of work being done in Brussels, where we are determined to continue on this path, against the will of the Dutch people. That is why the PVV Group is committed to giving the cabinet a strong warning at this stage: stop it, stop it. The Dutch citizen does not want this. He doesn't want millions of Ukrainian lucky seekers. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of my group. The President shall: Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Dercksen, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Kops, Mr Kok and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to visa liberalisation for Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34481-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u15	Finally. The only agreement Ukraine has with the EU and with European leaders is the total lack of respect for democracy. On 6 April last, the Dutch people convincingly said "no' to Ukraine. It is therefore quite impossible to explain that the visa liberalisation route is not stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u16	Mr. Chairman. Following the convincing rejection by the Dutch voters of the Association Treaty with Ukraine, the government has still not taken a clear position on the consequences of that rejection............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is not formally part of the association agreement, but it certainly cannot be separated from it. The fact that Mr Juncker is calling for visa-free travel to be introduced as soon as possible for residents of Ukraine is difficult to reconcile with the problems of whether or not to introduce the Association Treaty. Nor can the sending of Dutch soldiers be seen in isolation from European foreign policy in that region. The Irish Cambridge historian Brendan Simms says that European foreign policy cannot seem to be without a common enemy to promote internal unity or unity. to cover up the internal divide within the Union. The Juncker doctrine seems to assume that healthy cooperation is only achieved through a common external threat. Simms is convinced that a new political unit can't do without such a common enemy. That's how Britain came into being, and that's how the United States came into existence. Simms calls it a misunderstanding that cooperation within Europe can be built up one step at a time, one step at a time. A new European identity benefits from a common enemy, a conflict with Putin's Russia, Islamic terror attacks or uncontrolled refugee flows. Disaster fraternizes. When the Eastern Partnership was established in 2009, all partner countries agreed in principle on a visa liberalisation perspective. It is a question of abolishing the visa requirement for short stays. This view of visa liberalisation also applies to Ukraine and Georgia. Visa liberalisation action plans lay down conditions for the lifting of that visa requirement, such as document security, illegal migration including readmission, border management, management of migration and asylum, public order and national security, and external relations and fundamental rights. In addition to the implementation of the requirements set out in the Action Plan, a decision on the lifting of the visa requirement should also show that there are no unacceptable risks in the areas of illegal migration, national security and public order. EU legislation provides for an emergency braking procedure for temporary suspension of visa liberalisation, but the question is why visa liberalisation should now be accelerated. In Ukraine, there are even voices at the moment to introduce a visa requirement for Dutch people. The number of applications for asylum in the Netherlands by Ukrainians rose spectacularly last year when it became clear that even a non-opportune application could lead to an exit premium of €3.450, more than one-and-a-half times an average Ukrainian annual salary. The provisional application of treaties is referred to as customary by the Cabinet and aims to allow the parties to benefit earlier from the agreements made in the relevant Convention. Now, however, there is the unusual circumstance that the Netherlands has rejected the association agreement and that our asylum procedure has been abused unusually from Ukraine. That's more reason than usual for a pass at the place. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether asylum seekers from Ukraine still receive a return allowance, although it is much smaller than the original €3.450? Does he see a relationship between visa-free travel and the possibility of seeking asylum without opportunity with the possibility of getting a return ticket and an additional fee from the Dutch government? The agreement that parties will gradually evolve towards a visa-free regime in the long term, provided that all the conditions of well-managed and safe mobility are met, does not give rise to an accelerated decision by the EU legislator on the lifting of the visa requirement for Ukraine. The European Commission not only wants to end the visa requirement for Ukraine and Turkey; Kosovo and Georgia would also fulfil all 72 conditions. This would mean that some 127 million people will be able to travel freely to the European Union. The VVD does not want to speed up the lifting of the visa requirement for Ukrainians as the European Commission wants. At least, that is what MP Han ten Broeke said, because he was not convinced that Ukraine met all the conditions. I quote: 'The European Commission is free to submit a proposal, but that does not mean that we agree with it'. Following the rejection of the Association Treaty, the Prime Minister stressed that he did not want to rush into action. He wants consultation with Ukraine and then with all Member States before the cabinet comes to the House of Representatives with a proposal. That trial could take months. Juncker's plans are going through that process. I quote Ten Broeke once again: 'Ukraine can now have a biometric passport, that does not mean that the country fulfils all the conditions. I have great doubts." Does the Secretary of State share those doubts of his party colleague? Despite these serious doubts, the VVD in this house is not participating in this debate today. The coalition seems to be out and apparently a debate is no longer necessary, even if there are serious doubts about the largest government party. Apparently there is a higher goal at the moment, although that is not always clear to the Dutch citizen. In that case, can the Secretary of State still state that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u17	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the cabinet commitment to the European Commission's proposal to transfer Ukraine to the list of visa-free countries. The Commission made its proposal in April after having noted in its sixth progress report at the end of last year that Ukraine has now implemented all the necessary reforms to ensure that the latest benchmarks set for the country would also be met in an effective and sustainable manner. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has informed the Chamber that the government agrees with the Commission's assessment that Ukraine fulfils all the conditions of the visa liberalisation action plan. The government therefore welcomes the Commission's proposal to include Ukraine on the list of visa-free countries. It is now up to the European Council and the European Parliament to weigh up the Commission's proposal. The treatment reservation that was made on the other side has now been lifted and the Dutch Government can therefore handle the discussion with other Member States. The European Council has already established that there will be no visa liberalisation before the possibility of suspending such liberalisation has been changed. In September, the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs of the European Parliament examined the Commission's proposal. When the government enters the negotiations, it knows that it has committed to the Lower House not to take irreversible steps without consulting the Dutch Parliament. For us, therefore, this debate could have taken place after the summer, but if one or more political groups wanted to debate with the government earlier, we would have agreed and put forward our questions and comments. We hope today to receive answers from the Secretary of State and we also hope that he will share our input with the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his contribution later in Brussels. The EU's negotiations with Ukraine on visa liberalisation have been ongoing since 2008; that is a long time. The fact that it has not yet reached this stage has to do with the fact that the country that is so eager to join the list of visa-free countries has major difficulties in meeting the conditions of the visa liberalisation action plan. These consist of four blocks: document security, border management, public order and security, and external relations and fundamental rights. Where the European Commission and the Dutch Government seem to be satisfied with Ukraine's efforts in these four areas, our group has not yet done so. It is true that Ukraine has now introduced the biometric passport. Having such a passport would be a condition to benefit from any visa freedom. But only a small part of the Ukrainian population currently has such a passport. In addition to the more than one million current holders of such a passport, a maximum of two million will be added every year due to capacity constraints. This means that for a long time we will measure with double standards. Residents of the rebellious parts of the eastern part of the country have yet to do so with their old passport and are therefore not eligible for visa-free travel. What does the government think of these two sizes? It should also be taken into account that the holder of a biometric passport did not necessarily arrive by official means. After all, the country is facing endemic corruption? In other words, everything is for sale in Ukraine, including passports. Measures to combat this are not very effective at this stage. José Ugaz, the foreman of Transparency International, said a few days ago, after discussions with, among others, the President, the Minister of Justice and representatives of civil society, that there is no confidence in Ukraine's current anti-corruption system. The current judicial system is seen as a key problem, with a high degree of corruption and inefficiency, says Transparency International. I can quote Artem Sytnyk, the director of the national anti-corruption agency. Both the European Commission and the Dutch Government have put their trust in this when it comes to tackling corruption in Ukraine. Sytnyk talked last month about the catastrophic level of corruption in Ukraine. In Ukraine, it is not a matter of small grabbing, but of corruption at all levels. According to Transparency International, those who control immense wealth pull the strings in the corrupt circles around the authorities. The chief of the national anti-corruption agency says that in the past year some members of parliament reported income from over 100 million Ukrainian grivna, while they were members of three successive parliaments and were therefore prohibited from interfering with other economic activities. I assume the Secretary of State knows that information. When the president of the anti-corruption office looks at the income and wealth statements of judges in Ukraine, they do not usually have the three or four cars that they do, according to the Bureau, nor the real estate they have at their disposal. Of course, the anti-corruption agency wants to, but if eight of the ten judges, who according to the Bureau are corrupt, are allowed to continue their work cheerfully, then there too there is despair. As Sytnyk says, this is a sign that the system is resisting the fight against corruption and that representatives of the system continue their efforts to do everything in their power to hinder the work of the anti-corruption agency. The National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the other institute on which the European Commission and the Dutch Government have established their hopes, is also a difficult one. It took a year to appoint a director and it has only just begun to set up its own office. On what basis is the Secretary of State's hope that these two institutions will actually succeed in tackling endemic corruption in the country? Shouldn't we see first and then believe? I also ask the Secretary of State on which it is based that border management in Ukraine is in order, whereas in some parts of the country that border is controlled by insurgents, or perhaps by the Russian Federation. Restoration of this management is one of the many requirements of Minsk II that has not yet been achieved. The European Commission and the Dutch Government believe that illegal migration from Ukraine to Member States of the European Union will not be so rapid if visa liberalisation becomes a reality. The communication is that a visa only allows a stay of up to 90 days in a six-month period and does not include permission to work or study in an EU country. That is correct, but somewhat gullible. Now there are already about a million Ukrainians in Poland, legally and illegally, at least that is what the Polish Prime Minister claims. They are partly on the run from the misery in their own country and they are partly there to work. The fact that the latter should not be allowed is not a decisive reason for many parties not to do so, and I can understand that. Most migrant workers from Ukraine, estimated at around five million, are still staying in Russia. They are suffering very badly in that country and may consider seeking their salvation or their work elsewhere, for example in the European Union. That is illegal, certainly, but for the people in question a lot safer and perhaps more attractive. Is our government aware that the Slovak Government is already allowing post-bus companies to attract Ukrainian workers, so to speak, to send them to other EU countries? How does our government feel about that? Returning home is not an option for most migrant workers from Ukraine, as they together transfer billions of foreign currency to their families in Ukraine. Those foreign currencies entering the country seem to be an important reason for the government to insist on speedy visa freedom. In addition, Ukraine itself has a large number of displaced persons as a result of the civil war that broke out in 2014. Some of them may also want to get out of the hopelessness of present existence. I have struck many Ukrainians in the country who actually only had one question: when can I get a visa, because I want to leave. I can understand that, given the situation on the ground. How much do the Dutch government estimate the real migration risk? Would it not be wise to wait for visa liberalisation until the civil war is over? This also gives the government in Kiev an additional encouragement to play its part in Minsk II. Has the government also looked at the experience with Moldovans, who have been able to travel visa-free to the EU for two years? One of Ukraine's demands for visa liberalisation is respect for fundamental rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The Secretary of State is, of course, aware that part of the European Convention on Human Rights has been annulled by the Government of Ukraine and that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe has received a notification on this matter. How is that compatible with the requirement? How is the European Commission and the Dutch Government's assessment consistent with the fact that Ukraine now also has a priest or conscience, in the person of Ukrainian journalist Ruslan Kotsaba? According to Amnesty International, this is contrary to international law. What is the Commission's and the Government's positive assessment of the Council of Europe's Venice Committee's criticism of the decommunization law, which de facto prohibits the Communist Party and some other parties? How can this be reconciled with the criticism of the Venice Commission of the law which enables elected MPs from the Verhovna Rada to be expelled? How is this consistent with the opinion of the Council of Europe's High Level Panel that there has still not been an acceptable investigation into the many deaths in 2014, first at Majdan Square and then at the Trade Union House in Odessa? I would like to be optimistic when it comes to Ukraine, but that is not easy. Where does the government get its optimism? The EU-Ukraine discussions on visa liberalisation have been ongoing since 2008, as has been said. Let us be clear that the Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that agreements made must be kept. That is a big difference from the PVV Group's statement that it does not matter what we have agreed and promised. We believe that you should honour your commitments, but that also means that Ukraine must comply with them. We're not helping that country by looking between our fingers. According to reports from the Ukrainian Foreign Minister earlier this year, Ukraine sees visa liberalisation as a sign of strong confidence of EU Member States in Ukraine's reliability, of its documents, its border control, its approach to illegal migration, its fight against organised crime and its guarantees of fundamental rights and freedoms. If reality is very different now, should the government not ask with the Commission whether we are wise to move Ukraine to the list of visa-free countries? I don't think we're helping that country, and certainly not the people of that country. As has already been said, the European Parliament will continue to talk about liberalisation in September. Then there will also have to be proposals from the Commission on the possibility of suspending liberalisation if the freedom offered is misused. What does the government think of such a suspension mechanism? How does it think that Europe will be able to make that really effective? Our group allows everyone in Ukraine who wants to look around in our country or in another EU country, maximum freedom, but that freedom must therefore be embedded in real guarantees, in order to prevent visa freedom leading to a migration reality and then perhaps counter-reaction against the country or a dislike of the country. Our group does not yet have the impression that these guarantees exist. We hope that the Dutch Government will also pay attention to our concerns in the forthcoming negotiations. That is why we await with interest the response of the Secretary of State to our comments. I would ask you once again to share our comments with the Foreign Minister when he goes to Brussels for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u18	I note that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice has the opportunity to reply directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u19	Mr. Chairman. I am able to respond directly, but it remains to be seen whether I have an answer to all the questions. In any case, as Mr Kox asked, I agree to share this with my colleague, the Foreign Minister, because he knows the answer to a large number of questions that have been asked. I don't have the answers to that. Of course, visa liberalisation is also addressed in the European circle of the JHA Council. I'm a part of that. So I will certainly be able to answer a number of questions. After hearing the contributions of Members of Parliament, I think we need to distinguish between what is on the table here, the demands made in the visa liberalisation package and the wider concerns about Ukraine. The Cabinet shares these broader concerns. If we continue visa liberalisation in the near future, we will also have these broader concerns. However, we cannot include issues that were not included in the roadmap or package agreed with a country on the requirements that a country must meet before visa liberalisation can begin. That's a limited step you're allowing. We are sticking to the criteria that apply to Ukraine and we are reviewing them. Mr Kox asked how the cabinet sees the emergency braking mechanism, the reinforced mechanism that hopefully will be introduced after a trialogue with the European Parliament. We attach great importance to this. That is what we have been running very hard for in our presidency. It has reached political agreement between the Member States at a record rate of idea. We hope to be able to get through at such a rate in order to reach an agreement with the European Parliament. When the idea became a reality, many countries also proposed not to introduce visa liberalisation until the emergency braking mechanism is in place. That applies to all countries. You have to do more than test someone at one point to see if they're gonna be able to pass. You need to be able to keep testing that. If you find that a country no longer meets the requirements, you need to be able to pull the emergency brake faster than previously possible, so that a country can temporarily no longer enjoy visa freedom. That is why this is very important to us. Mr Koffeman spoke a number of times about the accelerated process. He quoted a highly esteemed member of another Chamber of this Parliament from an unfamiliar party. This was about Mr Juncker, who, as President of the Commission, had the idea of doing it quickly in April. He then talked about "this month already," so April. However, that did not happen. There hasn't been an accelerated process. We didn't do it very quickly at the end of June either. The trial's still going on. With the step of the emergency braking mechanism, the process has also slowed down rather than accelerated. Questions have been asked about Ukrainians' right to travel. Mrs Oomen pointed out in an interruption that it was a very limited right, namely that a visa should not be applied for in the case of a temporary stay, for example in the Netherlands. That does not give any right to a longer stay. It gives no right to social security or work. It is important, however, to continue to make that distinction. It certainly doesn't give you the right to asylum. Then there is the chicken or egg question, namely whether we run the risk of more Ukrainians applying for asylum if they can get here more easily. It's hard to tell if that's what's gonna happen. We can see that it is already happening without visa freedom. As Mr Kox said, visa freedom will be introduced gradually in practice, because we do not wait until everyone has a passport that meets the requirements. In the meantime, only those who have such a passport and who come from a country with which there are agreements on visa freedom can travel freely. People who want this and have an old passport can, of course, apply for a new passport, but production capacity is limited. Negatively, therefore, a distinction is made for some time between residents of a country who do and residents who do not have the right passport. More positively, visa freedom is being introduced de facto in stages. This will give a country to which visa-free travel is possible, more grip and allow it to see how it is going, whether there are problems and whether it needs to pull the emergency brake. Despite the lack of visa freedom, many Ukrainians are using the asylum procedure. Mr Koffeman asked about the fees. The remuneration specifically applicable to it has been discontinued. You can now only claim the standard €200. I have said before that I am not giving that amount because I think it is right in principle, but because it is very pragmatic. If I can voluntarily allow someone to return with this scheme, it will be more efficient and effective for the government than if I do not offer that possibility and proceed through a more difficult and costly process of forced return. It is not a compensation for which people will come, but it is a compensation for which people will go easier. A comparison with Albania has also been requested. I think it is very legitimate to apply this measure more broadly. If someone from Albania comes visa-free to the Netherlands and then takes advantage of the asylum procedure, we will withdraw his visa for two years. He will be given an entry ban which applies not only to the Netherlands but also to all countries for which visa freedom applies. The Netherlands is therefore taking the most stringent measures. I believe that we should not translate legitimate concerns into blocking the whole process, but rather into accompanying measures. The goodwill of Ukraine may take advantage of this new freedom that fits in with its country's cooperation, but the abuser will soon experience the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u20	I understand that it is not a situation that the cabinet hopes for, but what if someone from Ukraine comes on vacation to the Netherlands under visa freedom, takes a one-way ticket to the Netherlands and applies for asylum here. Is it true that he then gets a free return ticket and 10% of a year's salary as pocket money? I can understand why he can't come in for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u21	Of course, the percentage of the annual salary depends on someone's personal information. I think it's a logical question. I put him on the inside, too. My first reaction was to delete the €200 and the return ticket, but the people from the field, from the execution organisations, said to me: that sounds tough and it is in principle quite understandable, but this only leads to us probably being stuck with a lot of people who are more difficult to deploy. If you don't offer a good way to get someone back, you also have the problem that you have to take care of, and that's a lot more expensive. I keep monitoring this all the time. I have now taken one step by deleting the specific fee, which was much higher. This has also led to a significant decrease in the inflow. So I try to be as pragmatic and effective as possible in reducing the number of people who come to abuse the system. If those people did come, I'm trying to get them to leave the country as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u22	If, because of visa freedom or at least after the introduction of visa freedom, you can never fully demonstrate the causal link, is there a drastic increase in the number of unopposed asylum seekers, is the cabinet prepared to put the emergency braking procedure into effect on that basis alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u23	I can't make a prediction right now, because then it's about numbers. We've been working to strengthen that emergency braking procedure. If there is a large influx from that country and people often use the asylum procedure, it can indeed be a factor that will lead us to propose with our fellow Member States to initiate the emergency braking procedure. We have specifically strengthened this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u24	For my understanding, therefore, the emergency braking procedure cannot be initiated by an individual Member State? If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, this must be done in consultation with other European countries. Shouldn't you be careful when you can provide this kind of emergency stop that you can't control yourself? Could this be a reason to introduce visa freedom with a little more courage, policy and loyalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u25	There's another reservation. The emergency braking procedure is still the subject of the trilogue. So I do not want to give anyone in the European Parliament the impression that we have already designed this procedure. In any case, we have considerably tightened the procedure so that a Member State has more control over it. In European cooperation, you cannot always decide everything on your own. Conversely, I would not want a Member State after elections to have a government that can take decisions on its own for all other Member States, including the Netherlands. You have to consider this factor in advance if you agree. The weighing of the cabinet in this regard is that the guarantees that we have just strengthened and the measures we are taking now vis-à-vis other countries that enjoy visa freedom, such as Albania, provide us with sufficient guidance to enable us to agree when Ukraine continues to meet all the requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u26	Things are being set in motion with eventualities. It is said that there is the emergency braking procedure, and if it gets out of hand, then we can enter into consultation. But experience and common sense teach that it's going to happen anyway. Why put the horse behind the cart?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u27	It strikes me, also in her initial contribution, that Mrs Van Weerdenburg is very good at asking a question of why on the basis of an assumption which I do not share and which is sometimes factually incorrect. I can't answer any questions about the statements I don't share. Then I have to explain why I would do something I wouldn't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u28	My colleague said, for example, that if there are more unprecedented asylum questions, we could possibly do something about them by means of an emergency braking procedure. But in Albania, Serbia and all those countries, we have seen that it has actually happened. Why wouldn't it happen to Ukraine? Where does the Secretary of State base it on the fact that things are going well now and that it is unlikely that it will be necessary to use the emergency braking procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u29	I do not promise that this is not necessary at all, but Mrs Van Weerdenburg brings it as a proposal with only disadvantages and risks. I think you should focus on how to limit the risks. You need to have pre-measures ready in case they occur. Reality is sometimes uncomfortable. You must not resort to the rigorous measure and do nothing more, not even on the positive side, because there are risks to it. I think it is more important to move countries in our sphere of influence in the right direction and to work to combat corruption. We are far from there, and so we are moving in the right direction, than to sit in a very small, isolated area with countries around you with which you can barely work together and stand with your back. I think it is very important, economically, for the security and development of the country, that we try to have it in our sphere of influence alongside ourselves, alongside the Union. There are great advantages to that. Such instruments can play a major role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u30	The Secretary of State speaks of positive influences. What is the positive of the visa-free regime for Ukrainians? What is the biggest advantage for the Dutch citizen, who said in April: we do not want anything with Ukraine? What's the big advantage he's gonna miss if we don't do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u31	That is what I was actually putting forward just before this question by setting out the broad framework for why you are engaging in this type of cooperation at all, and it is important that such a country should develop in our view. There are also countries just a little further away that would prefer to see it develop in a different direction, which is causing us threats and even more problems. I think it's important that you work with countries, that you prefer a good neighbor. There is still much to be said about this, but it is in our interest that the country continues to develop, that there is less corruption, that its border systems are better in order, that it can better equip its own people with travel documents and passports. This is in all our interests, also in the economic interest of the Netherlands in a country such as Ukraine. That's what our society is doing. Mr Kox asked about the fight against corruption. I fully agree with him that Ukraine is not yet a model state. The point is: we are measuring whether we are improving and whether we are meeting the criteria for visa liberalisation. That is why I think it is particularly important that we build in more logic, not just on this point. It may be a bit of a personal observation, but Europe had a bit of a problem measuring only at one time. Once you were a member of the club, you were a member. Once you were in an arrangement, like visa freedom, you had once shown that you could cross the hurdle. I therefore believe that it is important that, even with the enhanced emergency braking procedure, we install systems with conditions. Visa freedom remains as long as a country meets the conditions. That works as an incentive, but it also ensures for us that if one suddenly slips, we do not continue to give what we had already given away. If I'm optimistic about it, it's a little hard to say. It also helps the people in Ukraine itself. The first reason for the Ukrainian government to improve the whole system is that the population wants it because it is better off with it itself. The measures we are now taking can help to stimulate and accompany this. Whether I am optimistic that it goes much further, I think in the case of Ukraine... It can move in the right direction very quickly, but there are also forces trying to frustrate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u32	I asked this question, inter alia, with the Commission's observation and then also with the Dutch Government, that the border documents are now in order. The passport itself is in order. The problem is that everything is for sale in Ukraine. I am concerned that the European Commission, on which the government has to go a little bit, has not looked too much at the technique and has ignored that huge elephant that is there, namely that the passport is fine but that the holder has not arrived there lawfully. In the last year, for some bizarre reason, several tens of thousands of people have been released from prison in Ukraine. Knowing that there is so much corruption, that there is so much organized crime, and that those people are there, I think that if you add up one and one, you should have additional guarantees to know that those neat biometric passports are not provided to people who go to Europe to work illegally. That's what the government has to worry about, isn't it? Or do I see ghosts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u33	The cabinet certainly has concerns about it. That is why it is not the case that, after visa freedom, you let go of a country and no longer look at what needs to be better, but that you also encourage and hold on to a country. Those concerns are there, but the question is whether you should draw the conclusion that you should not take this step. Illegal work is always difficult, because then you get into the discussion that people who want to do so will not be stopped within the rules that are now in place. It'll be one horde extra, but they'll take it too. You really have to fight that in a different way than not taking the measures to get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u34	Could I ask the Secretary of State why he and his Foreign Affairs colleague, in particular, say to the European Commission: what are you doing not just to check the technique of border papers? Because they are excellent and perhaps better than our passports, but there is a far greater danger behind them, namely that passports are given to people they should not have. How are we gonna guard that and check it out? I believe that the chances of these illegally issued passports leading to illegal residence in the European Union are statistically greater. If we do not succeed in helping the country to tackle corruption, this remains a problem that we cannot solve. I find that remarkable. All the times I am in Ukraine, I also think: I would like to help this country so much. But the problem is that it has to help itself, and on all corruption indexes it's just doing very badly. Today, more and more people in Ukraine also say: we are doing very badly. I mentioned the chief of the anti-corruption agency, who says we're in a catastrophic state of corruption. In addition to the emergency brake, should we not also look more closely at how we can tackle the major problem of corruption? The problem of border documents and, perhaps, illegal migration into the European Union will then have become much less serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u35	I think that visa liberalisation will also give us more insight into it, hopefully in the right way. If the scenario takes place as outlined and you have to pull the emergency brake, then it has gone rough. Mr Kox rightly points out that you have to go far beyond the technique. In the past, the Netherlands has often stopped countries, as well as fellow Member States in the Schengen context, which technically met everything, in terms of further steps in membership, precisely because previous Cabinets, like this Cabinet, use the reasoning: technique is one thing; as a Member State, you do not have to set up a company that can do this, because there is a market for that. So the fact that you're going to buy your passport from trustworthy companies is one thing, but then the whole system has to be good behind it. I agree with Mr Kox. I think it is something too, and I will also discuss it with my colleague from the Foreign Affairs Committee in order not only to get involved in the discussion at the moment but also afterwards, if we go into that process. We talked earlier about the graduality of visa freedom because that passport comes slowly and that you should not only monitor it in terms of numbers, but also check who gets those passports. To whom are they being provided and are there now at once more than the government had actually indicated as possible? Those are things you need to keep an eye on forever. Mr. Chairman. I do not see any more specific questions now, except for a number that I will pass on to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u36	At the VVD group on the other side there were very serious objections to the introduction of that visa freedom. The Secretary of State is now the only member of the VVD to participate in this debate, not in that quality but still. So I had asked him in the first term what the government's assessment is of the fact that the largest government group in the House of Representatives has great doubts as to whether you should introduce that visa freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u37	I said at the beginning that the highly esteemed Member of another Chamber in the parliament of an unfamiliar party who made a statement when the President of the European Commission said Juncker in April: we want to speed it up and I really want it this month. Then the reaction was right: "Slow down? It's about satisfying or failing." I have indicated that there has been no such acceleration and that the trajectory has been delayed rather than accelerated, partly because of the Dutch Presidency's efforts to implement this new emergency braking mechanism very quickly so that we can apply it before we grant further visa freedoms. Also because of the steps we have taken with regard to the emergency brake, the Lower House has now dropped the treatment reservation. So I don't see any problems in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u38	That brings me to the last question I asked. Could it also be that there is another greater aim that should be pursued, that Mr Juncker's haste should now be introduced and that, for example, the VVD Group has dropped its objections or the cabinet has put aside some of its initial hesitations, given that the difference between what was the state of affairs in April and what is now the state of affairs in July is not so great, whereas the emergency braking procedure is still not concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u39	We have made this emergency braking procedure concrete within 10 to 12 days. I introduced it to my colleagues at the JHA Council and they were unanimous in favour of it. So we have never received a proposal for agreement between Member States in such an environment so quickly. So that procedure is very concrete. The mandate of the European Parliament for negotiations, the trilogue, became concrete on 7 July. So I think that emergency braking mechanism is very concrete and necessary. I am therefore very pleased that it has been possible so quickly. Furthermore, a higher level of conspiracy seems very unlikely to me, at least I am not involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u40	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u41	I wouldn't have asked you about conspiracies either. Higher targets do not necessarily involve a conspiracy, of course, but I regret that the Secretary of State attaches that word to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u42	You were done answering your question, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u44	Then we have now reached the second term of office. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u45	Mr. Chairman. To return briefly to the last remark made by the Secretary of State, the following. We have seen in many cases, including in the Brexit, that people who are critical of the EU are very quickly conspiracy thinkers or people to whom other negative qualifications can be attributed. That makes a debate difficult. It is more pleasant to have an open debate on the basis of substantive facts and not on the basis of suspicions. The division that arises in Ukraine because of the fact that you can only use that visa freedom with a biometric passport, whereas if you do not have it and you are not able to acquire such a passport, this is not possible, and Mr Kox has also mentioned it a number of times, it makes it clear that, given the conditions that there must be a biometric passport, the cabinet does not want to take the opportunity, for some reason, to wait until that biometric passport has been introduced widely in Ukraine. The question of what that reason is will not be answered. That does not have to be a conspiracy at all, but it may well be that there is a higher European objective that makes it necessary to act now more quickly than would actually be valid on the basis of common sense. The fact that there were still a lot of doubts in April was not just about the emergency braking procedure. Han ten Broeke said: you may have a biometric passport, but that is not enough for me. This indicates that there is a short-term urgency which could not be foreseen at the time and which was not considered desirable at the time. We must note that Ukraine is still the most corrupt country in Europe. It's creepy to start experimenting with that. It is creepy to say to the most corrupt country in Europe: if you do not have a visa, we will see how it goes and if it does not go well, we can always pull the emergency brake. The question is whether you should start that ride on that base. The Secretary of State says the emergency braking procedure is now very clear. I'm still wondering. I was just asking whether we, as a Member State, are also in a position to pull the emergency brake. And there was no complete clarity about that. Maybe the Secretary of State can clear that up. We must also note that at the moment we have control over whether or not to introduce visa freedom and possibly not about the emergency braking procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I agree with him on a large number of his comments. At the same time, he said that he was unable to respond to some of my comments because he felt that the Foreign Minister was the first person to do so, including human rights, the fact that according to Amnesty International there are now people in prison in Ukraine who are a pioneer of conscience, and the problems of border control. I really assume that those elements will be taken into account. My party is not opposed to visa liberalisation. I always find it particularly pleasant that I can enter a country without having to show all sorts of papers, because then you feel a little more welcome. So for a lot of people that's also a step forward. Alone, then apply: appointment is appointment. And that goes both ways. I have a strong impression that we are making similar mistakes with Ukraine on a number of grounds that we once made with Romania and Bulgaria. That is what we said afterwards: why did we do so because we did not help these countries? So we have to keep checking the appointments. I do agree with the Secretary of State that we should not make new demands. We have entered a path and so we cannot come up with new things to make Ukraine even more difficult, but I do think that the conditions must be met. I have read all six progress reports and in them I find some kind of naivety. When I read those reports, I think: go see what's going on there! How can you think we're ready? I think we are not helping a country by ignoring it, by saying that the technique is in order and that everything else is okay. We are helping a country by saying: it is nice that you have those passports now, but now you must also ensure that they are no longer sold, especially in the places where they are currently traded. The European Commission can do a simple test to find out how much a passport is worth there. I bet that way you can get a passport in Ukraine. Is that bad? I'm not gonna be moral about it, but it's reality. So we must not make new demands, but we must keep the old demands. The same applies to border documents and border surveillance. I do not understand how the European Commission can say that border control is in order. Border surveillance is not in order, because the Ukrainian Government cannot even get to the eastern border. That border is governed by others, none of whom are entitled to do so. The Lower House has decided to lift its treatment reservation. The First Chamber didn't make a treatment reservation, so it allowed the government to take this route. I hope, however, that this will not be done now, without keeping both Chambers informed of the follow-up. My group's concerns are not motivated by the desire to make it as difficult as possible for the Ukrainians, but by the desire to help them as far as possible. But we do not do that by not keeping them to the demands that they themselves have voluntarily agreed with us. We do not need to vote at the end of this debate, but I would like to make one more point. I am very pleased that the PVV Group is requesting a debate with the Secretary of State, because that is her right. But if a remark is made to which the State Secretary responds, there must also be a second deadline. I am not talking about the order of the PVV, but that would make the debate much better, because we can then find out if we have actually made any progress. But that is only for consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u47	The Secretary of State states that he has the opportunity to reply immediately, so I will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u48	Mr. Chairman. I have made a reservation about the emergency braking procedure, because the concept before us is still under discussion. That is why I think it is so neat not to say that it will be so now. Mr Koffeman asked what the present proposal is like. It says that if you do a notification, because you think something is going on and you wonder if the emergency braking procedure should be put into effect, this will be investigated and put into a proposal. This can be done both by the European Commission and by a Member State. The Council will then vote by qualified majority and will thus decide whether the emergency braking procedure should actually be put into effect or whether other measures may need to be taken. That's how it's ahead right now. I very much agree with Mr Kox that you should keep checking the agreements. I also think that it is up to the Netherlands not to think too easily about this and to keep the rest sharp. We must not assume that other countries will do the same on their own. I also think it is right that we should keep both chambers informed. In the motion van Weerdenburg c.s. Under letter C, the cabinet is asked not to do any of this, and that is why I advise against the motion, because it is contrary to this. We have had an extensive exchange of views on this and I have tried to convince the authors that their motion is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-12-eerstekamer-17.u49	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The Permanent Chambers Committees will now meet. After the suspension, we shall vote on the Van Weerdenburg and others motion for a resolution. under letter C (34481).
