ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	During this debate, Mrs Vermue will make her maiden speech. According to the custom of this house, she will not be interrupted. We will begin with Mrs Thieme, on behalf of the Party for Animals. Speaking time is three minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The milk is paid expensively. Last year we saw in the television programme ZEMBLA the poignant consequences of the intensification and scaling-up in dairy farming, with emaciated cows that have to produce many thousands of litres of milk every year. Their calf doesn't get any of that. The newborn calf is put into a loner box immediately after birth and subsequently shows disturbed behaviour in the so-called group housing: it is going to suck desperately on other calves. In Gelderland we recently saw calves who, to counter this, had got a nose ring with a gear. What does the Secretary of State think of this profound state of affairs? Professor Jandouwe van der Ploeg said in ZEMBLA that a cow is immediately replaced by another animal if the milk production of that cow drops slightly. Former Secretary of State Dijksma put forward this statement in her letter by saying that this was not true: "I'm sure milk farmers handle their animals carefully." I invite this Secretary of State to look into the facts. On the website The Milk Story, by FrieslandCampina, it says that the age of dairy cows is about five years old. I quote FrieslandCampina: "That's not even half the 14 years that can become a cow." The causes are, we read, the high milk productivity, the unnatural and sickening autumn calf strategy and the lying-box stalls that cause claw problems and udder infections due to the limited space and poor flooring. Embroidered cows go to slaughter with four or five years, because they no longer have economic value. What will the Secretary of State do about it? Milk is cheaper than spring water, but it costs a lot more. This is a completely out of control situation, which is only getting worse now that the milk quota has been released and many farmers want to expand. Dairy farmers are at the same time the alarm clock for the low milk price, but it is the mega-expands that have caused such a low price. Therefore, scaling-up does not increase income security for farmers. On the contrary, it leads to vulnerable farms, much animal suffering and environmental and nature damage. Herman Wijffels, chairman of the committee on the future of livestock farming in 2001, said the following in the broadcast of ZEMBLA. "The Dutch ambition to feed the world is tremendously overwhelmed. Since my report, the cabinet has not set any hard limits on dairy farming. Already, a number of large dairy farms are in particular managed. It is an illustration that the vulnerability is increasing in the economic and financial sense. Politics has done too little for too long and created this problem itself." Does all this suffering, peasant suffering and animal suffering, now what? Dairy farming contributes only 0.3% to gross domestic product, while 50% is responsible for national ammonia emissions and thus a serious threat to nature. The damage in this respect alone is at least EUR 1 billion. The milk is paid expensively. Dairy farming is the new bio-industry. It is time for the Secretary of State to intervene and turn his fine words into deeds during the discussion of the agricultural budget, 'quality rather than more for less'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. "The top athletes of the milk industry." In ZEMBLA's broadcasts which are the basis of this debate, it became clear what performance cow and farmer have to deliver in order to sustain it in the dairy sector. For the farmer, it is his business, the bread on the shelf. For the cow it is an achievement to deliver enough milk every day, and so it is about life and death. If she tries a little less, she is unusable and follows the slaughter. If she tries well, she can get skinny or sick. As a farmer said, a round cow takes better care of itself than it does of me. At the same time, this farmer is not a model for all those farmers who do take good care of their animals. But we can't do this either. We must therefore reverse this trend. The growth of stables and milk production must not be at the expense of animal welfare. That's how the meadow is under pressure. Fewer and fewer cows are coming out. Anyone who has ever seen how happy a cow is on the grassland in the spring knows how sad this development is. Meanwhile, SP, GroenLinks and D66 have been waiting for almost four months for a response from the Secretary of State to our Wei initiative paper for the cow. Am I to conclude that grazing and natural behavior for cows are not a priority for him? Striking is also the meadow milk hallmark. It's about cows walking out of the house for 120 days a year for six hours. So most of the year they're inside. Can you speak of pasture milk? Also, the label is not about the presence of the omega 3 fatty acids, which you expect in real milk. Why can't the cow get to the meadow early in the year? Then I come to the dehorning of the cow. In 2013, government, sector and animal protection talked about stopping this. This year, the Chamber will be given an evaluation of the process of change. As far as I can see, that evaluation hasn't started yet. Is that right? How do all these permits for larger stables relate to government policy to work towards an end to dehorning? Larger stables also often mean more cows that are often close to each other inside. That's exactly where you don't want horns. I would also like to hear a reaction to this. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The situation in dairy farming can be seen from all sides, but each time the same conclusion actually comes out. You can look at it from the point of view of animal welfare. You will then find that an intensification, scaling up, keeping the animals in is not good. You can look at the environment, phosphate and nitrogen deposition and then you can see that it is best to have cows in the meadow and to ensure that there are stable farms of not too crazy size where a good sandwich is earned. It's possible. In fact, dairy farming is still, in a sense, the white raven in animal farming when compared to pig farming. It is extremely pleasurable that we still have a majority of the cows in the meadow and that it is still possible to do so, and there is also a good business model for the farmer. However, the freedom of one entrepreneur to go along in a wild growth and to grow into stables of 500, 600 or 700 animals and therefore to keep them in, limits the freedom of the other entrepreneur to continue to do his work properly and to continue to run his business. It is a vicious circle where we will end up in which, over time, it will lead to the conclusion that it is nothing but that we simply have a new branch of intensive livestock farming. The pastures are empty but overloaded. There are ecological deserts. The stables are too big. Animal welfare is going down. Actually, the quality of the farm is off the dairy farm. We can stop that, but then we have to. It is, therefore, a question of trying to achieve an integrated vision, which would also be my request to the Secretary of State for the future of dairy farming. Is it freedom, happiness and thus irrefutable a development towards large-scale intensive livestock farming or is it a dairy farming that in the future can put Dutch milk at the top of the world in a good way with grazing and with a high quality of animal welfare and product? That's the point. Let us try to achieve, apart from all the individual issues that we have to deal with, from phosphate rights to nitrogen deposition, a concept that has broad support in society and which, in my opinion, also has broad support among a majority of dairy farmers, which leads to a branch of sport that is lastingly excellent and properly links the factors of animal welfare, economic model and sustainability. That would be my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. Cows without pasture around them, that's the scare of a future we don't want to go to. Chicken farming and pig farming have gone wrong many years ago. The animals live in bare stables without ever seeing daylight. For God's sake, let's not go after the chickens and the pigs with dairy farming. Now it is still a sector with an animal-friendly and green image. My appeal is: keep the dairy farming ground bound, so with enough pasture to get rid of the manure and allow the cows to graze on it. So it was scared again with the latest CBS figures. Another percent less cows in the meadow, despite the motions passed, the beautiful promises of directors and the non-binding agreements. In 2001, 90% of the cows were still outside, now only 69%. That trend must be reversed. This is why the SP, together with D66 and GroenLinks, has shown the light of an initiative paper to integrate the grazing process into the law. Beautiful words alone are not enough. Last year around this time, Secretary of State Dijksma said that she was confident that the sector would remain below the maximum permitted and responsible manure production and that tough measures were not needed. A few months later, the manure ceiling, known as the phosphate ceiling, had already been exceeded. With its mouths, the government confesses ground-bound growth, but in its policy it stimulates the opposite. With the proposed phosphate rules dairy farmers are duped with sufficient pasture, while the mega-grown are rewarded. What kind of schizophrenic policy is this? The government refused to regulate land-based growth last year, the PvdA voted away all the land-based amendments and dairy farming could grow almost indefinitely. Ground-boundness was fairly regulated. Liberalising the milk market and abolishing the quota system was a historic mistake. Milk production, including environmental taxes, has risen considerably and milk prices have fallen significantly. The cows on the stable, the manure production through the ceiling, the environment overloaded and an increasingly poor farmer. The introduction of phosphate rights is the implicit recognition that liberalisation is a failure. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? One of the worst animal welfare problems is that calves are removed from the mother immediately after birth. This does not do justice to natural behavior and is not treated in a respectful way with living beings. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? In recent years, a mess of regulations on the dairy sector has been poured out. Then left again, then right again; it was a drunken ride. What are the dairy farmers doing? We have been waiting since July for clarification on phosphate rights. It can easily be arranged if the Secretary of State accepts the SP proposals from our phosphate note. Refrain farms with sufficient land and a stocking density of less than 2.5 cows per hectare, allow the phosphate bank to distribute the rights and do not grant any new megas. The Secretary of State has today the opportunity to give a clear direction, namely land-based dairy farming with grazing, animal-friendly and responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. Dairy farming in the Netherlands is the top in the world in terms of animal welfare. In recent years many new stables have been built or existing stables expanded. These stables are bigger. The cows have been given more room. However, the financial burden on dairy farmers and their families has also increased. When you go to work and talk to dairy farmers and their families, their love for the animals turns out and you see their passion for taking care of the animals as well as possible. Of course, the dairy farmers also have to do with the economy around the cow. Some dairy farmers are well able to give a lesson in the dairy economy and it can sometimes come across harshly. Does this mean they don't take care of their animals properly? No, definitely not. To quote the former Secretary of State, they are farmers who especially love their animals and who care for their animals as well as possible. The CDA would also like to debate a proposal on phosphate rights. Farmers are entitled to clarity and need to know where they stand. That is why we think it is right for the government to come forward with a legislative proposal first. The question is when the cabinet will be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mrs Thieme has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	The CDA always likes to profile itself as the farmers' party, but the same CDA has agreed to abolish the milk quota. We now see that dairy farmers are even desperately going to the Pope because they are getting too low a milk price for their production. Of course, that has everything to do with the fact that the rat race to the bottom, expanding it even further, producing it even more and competing on price, has only made the income security of farmers even more difficult. Doesn't the CDA feel a little responsible for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	I thought we were going to talk today about the ZEMBLA broadcast, but Mrs Thieme of the Animal Party is now raising a very different issue, namely the income position of farmers. I would like to debate this with her, but I did not think that this was the reason for the debate. We agree that farmers' incomes are currently under enormous pressure. This has been the case for a long time in some sectors, particularly in pig farming. I'd like to talk about that at another time. I thought this was not the reason for today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	The CDA always says that animal welfare has to be paid for and that it is a bit difficult for farmers to meet all kinds of welfare standards, as they can hardly keep their heads above water. If we really want the farmer's love for the animals that Mr Geurts is talking about to be translated into action, then we will have to invest in a better income model. We will also have to raise animal welfare standards. We now see that by abolishing the milk quota the farmers and the cows are both milked out. There is no money and there are cows that can barely stand on their feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	What is your question to Mr Geurts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	I would like to know from Mr Geurts whether he is not a little ashamed of the fact that he voted for the abolition of the milk quota, resulting in the loss of farmers and the loss of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	Now my clog breaks! The Animal Party blames the CDA for imposing requirements at European level. In my view, your party is also one of the parties who try to get motions adopted every week in this Chamber that lead to farmers having to invest more. And now you're going to tell me that the CDA would be responsible for that? I'm throwing that far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	You said "you," but you meant Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	Sorry, Chairman. I say this through you to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	What always strikes me in the discussions on dairy farming are two typologies. I see a farmer who is a 100% entrepreneur and who says in so many words: that cow does not interest me very much; that cow is just a factory that converts grass into a high-quality product called'milk' in a very efficient way. We've seen farmers like that on the air, too. I think such farmers are a small minority. I see another type, namely the farmer who loves his profession and his animals and who wants to earn his living in a good way. Which of these two farmers would Mr Geurts want to identify with? Which one of those two would he like to stand up for here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	That's a false representation of things. I have just indicated in my contribution that a number of dairy farmers are very well able to give a lesson in the dairy economy. This may seem harsh, but does that mean that they are bad for their animals, do not handle their animals badly or do not care for their animals well? That question is absolutely not on the agenda. These farmers also take good care of their animals, because if they do not take good care of their animals, milk production is not in order either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr Grashoff, the interruptions may be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u19	I'll try, Mr. Chairman. I note that Mr Geurts is sailing around my question. However, this is what is at stake. There can be a business model in which the farmer can lose his love of the profession and can farmers in a good way. Another possibility is that the government ensures that the conditions are set so that the cowboys in this sector, who want to build a stable for 700 cows who never come out again, and who see these animals as an economic product, are put in the cards. The last group of farmers does not care at all what happens to these animals. Which of these two types of farmers does Mr Geurts want to play into the hands of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u20	I go for the farmer and his family, the farmer who also deals well with his cows, who sees that his cows, if he takes good care of that, contribute to his income. Mr Grashoff is trying to provoke me. He thinks I should make a choice between entrepreneurs, but I can't do that at all. I go for the entrepreneurs who take good care of their animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u21	I want to continue on that last one. An important reason for this debate was animal welfare in dairy farming. It is a custom that young calves are taken away directly from the mother. What does the CDA think of that phenomenon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think that is quite logical in itself, because otherwise the cow would not be able to supply milk and we would not be able to consume it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u23	This is what they call a farmer's answer. Well, that's not supposed to be a good thing. You can take the concept of "farmer" positive, but also negative. The CDA's response shows that production is indeed above the welfare of the animal. Does liberalisation, with the emphasis on quantity rather than quality, not affect animal welfare? Doesn't that start with taking the calves away from the mother way too early?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u24	I find it strange how you imagine it as if the animal welfare of a calf is at stake when it is removed from a cow. I invite you to take a work visit to a dairy farm. Then you will see that it is very well guaranteed in the Netherlands. We must be much more concerned about a number of other countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mrs Thieme, I think you've already been.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u26	That is true, but I do not believe that you would have indicated any limitation in the number of interruptions. Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u27	No, but that means you're interrupting briefly. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u28	I really object to Mr Geurts' assessment that a calf would not have animal welfare problems. We've seen report after report come across about what the problem of calves is when they're taken away from their mother, such as disturbed behavior and sucking on everything loose and stuck because they're desperate for an udder. Does Mr Geurts really want to say that there are no welfare problems in calves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u29	That's another general question. This afternoon I do not see how all the calves in the Netherlands stand at the moment. It seems a little difficult to answer that question. I very much invite Mrs Thieme to go to work with me to a dairy farm to see how the calves are kept in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u30	I was not allowed to talk about farmers' incomes, because the debate was about animal welfare. Now I am asking about the welfare of calves and Mr Geurts refers to a work visit that we should make again. I would advise Mr Geurts to get rid of these fact-free politicians, to look at the facts and to see that calves and the mother cow suffer because of the way we keep them. We need to take a step in that. The fact that parties such as the CDA continue to deny this is precisely the moral blind spot in society that we need to tackle if necessary, because this is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u31	I see you wanted to be part of what you had studied in advance. That's fine. I am concerned that you are calling for one image and that I am giving another image, namely what I have seen in my life in the field. Then I think: let's take a look at these images in the Netherlands together, so that we can see them together, at the same time. I have done the same with your colleague, Mr Ouwehand, in pig farming. This led to surprising results for Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u32	We will hear the report of the pleasant bus ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the consequences of the increase in Dutch milk production. With such a debate, you can go anywhere. Let me start by saying that the VVD is very proud of Dutch agriculture and horticulture and, for this debate in particular, of Dutch dairy farming. The sector produces high production and efficiency in a sustainable way, delivering a high quality and affordable product. Many people have jobs in dairy farming or the processing industry. There wouldn't be a position like this if it were just trouble and torment. In the knowledge that the world population will grow from 7 billion to 9 billion people and that food production must at least double to feed these people, we face a major challenge. Take into account the agreements in the climate agreement, where global warming must remain within 2C, greenhouse gas emissions must be severely reduced and food supplies must not be compromised. Our Dutch dairy farming is the leader in the world. Thanks to this high production per hectare and per animal and an efficient chain, the Dutch farmer manages to produce food with the least amount of land and raw materials. A Dutch cow that gives 10,000 kilos of milk per year costs 30% less energy and greenhouse gases than a cow in other countries which, for example, gives only 5,000 kilos of milk per year. In addition to the export of Dutch products, we can market this knowledge and technology, but we must ensure that the next battle is with new knowledge and smart technologies. Then we can produce with fewer raw materials. We're way ahead of the next battle. The Dutch farmers are able to extract phosphate from cow manure, a raw material that is becoming increasingly scarce. Now we are dependent on imports from countries such as Morocco and Syria. Manure would no longer be a problem, but a solution. Phosphate is needed for food production. Politics should have the courage to give the sector the opportunity to undertake: not rules that hinder entrepreneurs, but space for entrepreneurship that pursues multiple objectives. The Dutch dairy farming can market its products and knowledge worldwide. At the same time, we are working on the climate agreements that have been made in Paris over the past year: efficient production, where we produce more with less. By providing space for innovation, food production will no longer have to depend on countries such as Morocco and Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u34	If you're gonna get phosphate out of manure, you're gonna have to stall the cows year round. Otherwise, you won't be able to do it. So Mrs Lodder's pleading here for cows year round in stables. My question is about something else. The Dutchman pays on average €0.80 for a pack of milk. That's less than a bottle of spring water. How ethical is that? Will the farmer be able to meet all the demands of society in terms of animal welfare, the environment and climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u35	The cows don't walk the year round outside. That is not possible in the Netherlands, as Mrs Thieme well knows. To answer her question how ethical that is: let's start with less rules. That's my plea. Let us leave entrepreneurship to the primary producer, the farmer. A farmer knows very well what he does with his cattle. If cows, or any other animals, are not properly cared for, they are noticed directly in the stable. Let us start with that. The Dutch dairy farming is the leader in the world. Mrs Thieme is the frontrunner in this Chamber to recite all these extra demands over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u36	Cows have to be inside the year round if you want to get phosphates out of manure. That means the year round in the stables. That is Mrs Lodder's plea. If you only get €0.80 for a pack of milk, if that is the final price, it can only be done at the expense of farmers, animals and the environment. This is due to the liberalisation that the VVD is so in favour of. So is the VVD really as farmer friendly as it pretends to be here? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u37	When we talk about animal welfare, Mrs Thieme should be the first to argue in the Chamber to give the cow the room to decide whether or not to enter the pasture. Mrs Thieme knows very well that the soil species in the Netherlands does not always allow an animal to walk outside 24 hours a day. If we really care about animal welfare, we leave it to the individual cows. Mrs Thieme wants to steer us in a certain direction. That's the ot-en-sien idea of the past. It's okay, but the VVD is pursuing a completely different world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u38	Will you continue your speech, Mrs Lodders? I get the impression you're not gonna convince each other again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u39	My speech has actually been completed, but I can see that I am still getting an interruption. Finally, I would like to make one final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u40	The VVD is in favour of the cow choosing whether or not it enters the pasture. Then pasture must be possible. That's my first question. I would also like to ask the following question, Mr President, if I may. Is the fact that dairy production has increased so high not at the expense of the quality of life of the cow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u41	I agree with the first part: grazing must then be possible. However, in the rules of this same Chamber, but certainly in European rules, we have laid down that a cow must have a minimum number of hours per day to be able to speak of grazing. If we let go of that rule and rely on the welfare of animals, we will see a completely different picture. The other question is about the production that is being raised. The more rules and additional requirements we impose, the more a farmer must invest. That will have to be brought in by the same cow. This also brings me to the plea for fewer rules. Leave it to the entrepreneur to decide what fits well in the business. Animal welfare, take it from me, is really a big part of the management of a farm, because in the case of poor animal welfare, a cow will produce badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u42	I am placing the second part of my interruption, Mr President. The VVD says we have to get rid of the rules and it'll be okay. How then is it that in the province of North Holland, as an example, 90% of the cows are in the stables? It's not the rules, I suppose. How is that possible according to the VVD? So it is not desirable, as I understand it, because the VVD is also for grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u43	I don't recognize the 90% that's in the stable. I would like to receive these figures from Mr Van Gerven. I often come to North Holland. I see a lot of businesses, especially in the different polders there, where the cows do come out. So I don't recognize the image.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mrs. Lodders triggered me with her suggestion to leave it to the cow itself. That is a point on which we agree! In fact, there is an excellent stable concept for that. If you put that down, the cows can walk out and back inside themselves. This leads to a significant increase in grazing, because the animals would rather be outside than inside, and you have little to look back at too, because the cows will come back when they want to be milked. A very simple and effective concept. Shouldn't we encourage this kind of innovation together and turn it against the fact that cowboys who want to ruin this sector by putting 700 cows in a closed house are being reduced a little bit with all the problems that this entails?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u45	I will go along with the first part of Mr Grashoff's speech, which is quite extraordinary. Let's leave it to the individual company. It's a wonderful concept I recognize. However, I also know that a lot of common companies do have the room at the moment to let the cows go outside. That doesn't necessarily have to be done through that one, beautiful concept; it fits very well in the regular business. Then there is the second part of Mr Grashoff's speech on the 700 cows in a barn. Mr Geurts has already invited Mrs Thieme and I would now like to invite Mr Grashoff to visit the modern companies of this time. Those are not dense stables, but modern and open stables. So let's not create an image here that it's all wretched and tormented, because it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u46	The four of us on the bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u47	It's very special that Mrs. Lodders always thinks I don't go there. I give her a concrete example, which she agrees with, and then she assumes that I will not get there. I have been on many farms and I see both good and bad examples. However, I note that when you say here that the government has to draw a line somewhere between what is admissible and inadmissible, Mrs Lodder does not go with me, but likes to leave it to the cowboys. Those cowboys will eventually ruin this sector. We are going to talk about this again and then Mrs Lodders will regret it, because it is a pity for the real, good, motivated farmer who comes through those cowboys in the tribulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u48	I really distance myself from the term "cowboys" for companies that keep a slightly larger number of cows. Such a company must also meet all the legal requirements that we have imposed in Europe, but certainly also in the Netherlands, where there are also super-statutory requirements. They will all have to comply with this and they will comply with it, because we have a system in the Netherlands with which we monitor it very closely. Mr Grashoff knows that. I find it extremely regrettable and, moreover, very regrettable that Mr Grashoff is putting the sector down in this way. Mr President, I have already completed my speech, but allow me to say a few more sentences. After me, Mrs Vermue can speak for the first time. It is customary for the next speaker in such a case to thank and congratulate someone on his maiden speech. However, she is now the last speaker. Mrs Vermue, on behalf of all my fellow Members, I wish you every success in your maiden speech. Enjoy it! I congratulate you in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u49	Well, I don't have to do that anymore. Mrs. Vermue, go ahead. We are going to listen with interest to your maiden speech. I call Mrs Vermue, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. Resistance doesn't start with big words/but with small deeds: that's how the first rules of One person ask the question, a well-known poem by Remco Campert. Ten years ago I started as a social worker at a regional organisation in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. Here I have accompanied people with various questions and concerns. They were people with large debts, people who no longer knew how to obtain sufficient income. One day it was about preventing domestic violence and the other day it was about guiding people with major psychosocial problems. By standing next to residents, each with their own question and their own story, I have regularly felt their powerlessness and frustration. For example, Mo, who was sent off the rock because of a lack of motivation. He didn't have any parents at home who encouraged him. Mo didn't have any parents teaching him to stand up for himself. But by going back to school with him and starting the conversation, he got a new chance and learned to get the best out of himself. Ina was in debt. Creditors had overstated their income. She lived far below the minimum of existence. Ina wasn't aware of the regulations here in this house. Because Ina is equipped with the knowledge needed to correct the herd, she is now working completely independently to solve her problems. The seizure of her income has now been revised and carried out in a fair and just manner. Bryan got a restraining order for hitting his pregnant girlfriend in a fight. When he was a kid, he would never have learned anything at home except that you fought violently. With him, his girlfriend, their parents, neighbors and friends, we tried step by step to break such patterns and we drew up a safety plan with each other. So we showed Bryan and his environment that together you are able to make a positive change. These people, whom I spoke to every day, are directly affected by the legislation that is decided here in this Chamber. The positive effects are immediate, but more profound are often unintended side effects. These examples have convinced me that, as a representative of the people, I want to contribute to the creation of legislation that enables people to get the best out of themselves. Important reforms have been carried out in recent years. They are needed to deliver tailor-made work in the future, to organise care closely and to maximise the perspective on work. With small acts, or perhaps Zeelandic sobriety, I am convinced that together we can take important steps in the right direction, as long as we know, recognise and understand the stories and experiences of the people around us. Zeelandic sobriety is accompanied by ideals. Many social workers and other residents of the Netherlands engage daily in the often invisible struggle for people and do so together with family members, friends and neighborhood residents. It is important to hear their signals, to wonder about them and to keep asking questions. Remco Campert wrote it like this: Asking yourself a question, That's where resistance begins. And then ask that question to someone else. I shall continue with today's debate. Following the abolition of the milk quota on 1 April 2015, a period was envisaged by farmers: less rules and the possibility of growth. The dairy sector has indeed grown, so far as we are now producing 3.4 million kilos more manure than is allowed. We are concerned about the effects of this growth on the individual dairy farmer. Individual farmers are not liable for exceeding the phosphate ceiling. The reason for this debate was the broadcast of ZEMBLA. We saw a farmer using his animals purely as a money machine; no grazing and slippery stable floors. The debate we are having is somewhat premature. The Secretary of State is consulting with a view to resolving the phosphate problems. We've shared our input on that before. We want a system that leaves room for farmers to graze their cows. We do not want to have megasmic stables where the animals only know grass as that dried stuff that the farmer or the feeding machine comes for their fence every day. We want cows going out. That is good for the cow and simply belongs in our Dutch cultural landscape. Finally, I have two brief questions for the Secretary of State. What's the status of breaking open the Covenant Weidegang? Researchers fear that in 2016 only 58% of cows meet the grazing concept, while in 2013 this was still 70%. And when will the farmers know where they stand with regard to phosphate? During the treatment of the Milk Cattle Act, the then Secretary of State said that she had a law in preparation to regulate the total amount of phosphate. When's the Room's move again? This is taking us too long. The PvdA Group strongly supports the inclusion of grazing as a right for cows in the plans being developed by the Secretary of State. I'd like the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you very much. It's a good thing you made us part of your inspiration at the beginning! I shall suspend briefly for congratulations; then we shall continue with the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr. Chairman. May I begin by congratulating Mrs Vermue? I have the privilege of speaking first after she has spoken. I remember myself, it's a very special time to have your maiden speech here. I hope that this is the beginning of a long and very good time as a spokesperson, including in this Chamber. Congratulations! I liked listening to you and hearing your inspiration to be politically active. Whatever will surely stay with me is how you spoke of your Zeeland sobriety. Perhaps that is a good attitude to look at this debate. There are quite a few pictures of the Dutch dairy farming that you have to ask yourself are you doing justice to that dairy farming. What is more Dutch than our beautiful green pastures, cows in the meadow, a cheese sandwich and a glass of milk? It's almost impossible to do it more Dutch than that. Dairy farming plays a role in everything. There is every reason to be proud of dairy farming. Let me outline what an average dairy farm in the Netherlands looks like. An average dairy farming in the Netherlands has 85 cows and not hundreds as has been said here. In other debates, we would describe this scale as the human measure: very clear, a small family business, the couple that runs the business themselves and is involved in the cows and the rest of the business from early in the morning to late in the evening. A large majority of cows in the Netherlands run in the meadow. It was said not all year round. No, it's winter now and no grass grows. It doesn't make much sense for cows to walk in the meadow now, because there's nothing to eat. At the time the grass grows, the majority of cows in the Netherlands run in the meadow, about 70%. That percentage has fallen in recent years. The good news is that this decline is being slowed down, but the ambition must of course be to turn it into an increase in pasture. That's my ambition. A picture of very large companies was sketched. In the last year there were 18,267 dairy farms in the Netherlands. There were only 62 farms with over 400 cows, so that gives a bit of a picture. A mega company with 700 cows as was shown in ZEMBLA and that even wanted to grow to more than 1,000 cows, is therefore not representative of the way cows are kept in the Netherlands. Not every small farm is good for its cows and not every large farm is bad, but smaller and more extensive farms do more often grazing. It was rightly pointed out that we have to bear in mind that the average Dutch dairy farm with 85 cows is much more difficult to cope with in the current market conditions with low prices than such a large farm, because it has fewer opportunities to cope with these low prices. I think that is an important point. We must keep that in mind. The farmers who try to keep a farm of this size running deserve support. That support begins with respect. Then you should not paint a picture as if the whole dairy sector consists of large-scale factories in which cows are seen as machines. This does not do justice to the passion and commitment with which the vast majority of those 18,000 farmers in the Netherlands do their job. I would like to say this at the beginning of my reply, because here the picture outlined by ZEMBLA has actually been taken up, namely that Dutch dairy farming is tending to large bio-industries, as Mrs Thieme said. That's just not the image of today. It will certainly not be in the short term. We are also there together, to ensure that we keep our Dutch dairy farming as it now looks. We must support farmers with a very small farm so that they can continue to run their farms in this way, with their cows in the meadows and with heart for their animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u53	It may be that the Secretary of State has just taken office, but if he denies that there is a trend towards scaling up, in all the farm magazines, it says that more than half of farmers want to expand, or if he does not see that trend, we still have a long way to go. Anyway, we still have the intensification, the lean cows, the sharp cows are also called "sharp cows," which have to produce almost 10,000 kilos of milk per year. That is a huge loss of well-being and FrieslandCampina has even expressed his concerns on his website The Milk Story. By the way, FrieslandCampina is at the same time the driver of such intensification, but this aside. I'd like the Secretary of State to take that up. The cows we've seen at ZEMBLA are just cows that you can also see walking outside, gratuitous cows, top athletes, who sometimes have to give up to 10,000 kilos a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mrs Thieme says that there has been an increase in scale and growth in the sector in recent years. That's right. I can give you an idea of what that growth looks like. The average number of cows per farm in 2013 was 83, in 2014 it was 85 and the preliminary figure for 2015 is 89. So yes, there is growth. But once again, do not put the picture down as if the entire Dutch dairy farming is developing to farms with hundreds of cows. I told you there were 62 farms last year with over 400 cows, 62 out of 18.267. That is today's reality in dairy farming. Has there been any growth? Yes. Is this growth also a problem for us? Yes, we will soon be discussing this extensively when we need to talk about the introduction of phosphate rights. The production of manure, which has been accompanied by this growth, has led us to almost certainly exceed the phosphate ceiling contained in the Brussels regulations in the past year. Growth therefore presents us with problems and we will have to take action on them. However, I believe, once again, that we have a realistic picture of the Dutch dairy farming together. I want to make sure that there is a kind of picture here from a political point of view that a very large part of these farmers would not have a heart for their cows. In fact, it is in the interests of every farmer that he deals well with his cows. Of course there are farmers among them who may not do that or do not do it right. As well as there are entrepreneurs in every sector who can be questioned about the motives with which they do their work and so on. However, let us not pretend that this is a general trend. Let us not pretend that this is a large proportion of farmers in the Netherlands. The vast majority of farmers in the Netherlands have a small size and heart for their cows. The vast majority of cows in the Netherlands just walk in the meadow. That is the reality of Dutch dairy farming. Are there any risks? Yeah, the meadow's going down. I think the grazing should increase. Fertiliser production is taking on too large forms. We're out of line. Are there any companies that are beginning to get a very large size? Yeah, there are. I told you, they're all bad for their animals. These situations will occur and we must act if animals are actually neglected or not properly treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u55	There were 180,000 dairy farms in the 1950s, there were 60,000 in 1985 and there are now only 18,000. Milk production has increased and so has the number of cows suffering from this enormous high production. I'm talking about the sharp cows as they're called, those gnarly cows. I'd like to talk to the Secretary of State about that. I still haven't heard any judgment on that from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u56	I find it horrible, like everyone else here, when there are farmers who neglect or abuse their animals. If it is found that a farmer is irresponsible in dealing with his animals, action will be taken against them. That's what I'm supposed to do. I am certainly saying this to Mrs Thieme, who portrays dairy farming in the Netherlands as a new, large-scale bio-industry. I recognize myself more in Mr Grashoff's words. He said this might be the white raven in livestock farming. These farms are all very large, and the vast majority of farmers deal with their animals in a very decent way. Let me stress once again that it is not at all in the interests of that farmer to deal badly with his animals. A cow that is healthy and well treated gives more and longer milk. That's what the sector's steering on. The sector is pushing for the life of cows to be extended and for cows to last longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u57	"Government is vision," says the ancient proverb. So it is not so much a question of whether there are already very irresponsible large companies on a large scale at the moment. However, Mrs Thieme said a few things about the trends of recent years. You can see those trends in the numbers. The number of farms exceeding 250 cows is beginning to increase significantly. We also know from the literature that around that number is the turning point: after that cows no longer come out. I have heard the Secretary of State implicitly, but not yet explicitly, say that grazing is an important feature of animal welfare and that it is important from the welfare point of view of animals. I suspect, however, that he agrees with me on this matter. Would it not be wise for the Secretary of State not to decide here that things are going well and to pretend that there is little going on and that there is only a little growth in them? Wouldn't he do better to support my statement that we should be seriously concerned? Now there's something we can do about it. Now we can keep some of the white raven. If we still grab him for a year or three in our chair leaning back, like we did, then we can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u58	I think that Mr Grashoff's image here is too much of a doom. I did not say for nothing that the average dairy farmer is a small entrepreneur with a farm of not too large size. This dairy farmer will also have the greatest difficulty to cope, for example, with the fall in prices. Mr Grashoff rightly pointed out that the risk of an increase in large farms is that it will be more difficult for dairy farmers with this size of farm to compete. That is what you can see: milk production has increased so much and the market situation is so bad that the price is now at an incredibly low level. On the other hand, the prospects for the development of the dairy sector in the medium and longer term are in fact all positive, including internationally. I therefore agree with Mr Grashoff that there are risks, especially when the number of large-scale companies is increasing. I therefore also said that, in all the measures we are taking, we must bear in mind that the good companies are supported and spared as much as possible. That is about 18 000 entrepreneurs with a company with less than 250 cows. I think they deserve our support. In everything we do with each other and in the discussions that we will have in the near future about, for example, the phosphate rights system, we need to look at whether we support those farmers who want to run a business in a very ordinary way. Do we then support the farmers who want their cows to come out? Do we then support the farmers who, if possible, are ground-bound, at least to a large extent? These are important elements to look at, even if, for example, a system of phosphate rights is set up. I would like to support these developments and the farmers who are doing grazing. I want and hope that there will be more cows in the pasture than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u59	I am so bold to interpret the words of the Secretary of State as he is also concerned about "the scale jump" in the companies. It is not so much about the smell of development in those companies, but about that scale leap. I am waiting for the debate to see how we are going to get out of here. 'Cause we're gonna have to do something about that. The development is irreversible. That's what I'm gonna keep standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u60	I wonder if...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u61	I heard an interpretation of what I said, Mr President, but I do not feel that I should necessarily respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u62	I am indeed afraid that we will then have some sort of discussion. I give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u63	Small or large, I don't care at all; farmers have to deal well with their animals. It's as simple as that. I have one question. In my first term I used a quote from a farmer who said: a round cow takes better care of itself than it does for me. Has this farmer been visited, has there been any monitoring and what is the result of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u64	It is good practice that directors in this Chamber never go into individual business situations and certainly not to control and enforce them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u65	I was expecting this answer from the Secretary of State. The point, however, is that this farmer is seen as an example for many other farmers. So I would like to hear the Secretary of State say that there is direct control over farmers who deal with their animals in such a way that they are arrested and prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u66	In general, you should always be careful with this, because you never know to what extent this type of broadcast has been cut. So you never know exactly if you've seen the whole story, if you've seen all sides of the story. So I think you should always be careful to judge such an individual situation. In general, farmers ought to deal well with their cows. They have an interest in that, too. I always get scared when I hear people talking about a cow like it's some kind of machine that comes out of milk. I am also sure that the vast majority of farmers in the Netherlands do not look at their cows that way. Cows are animals. That's a different means of production than a machine that makes you something to eat. Cows are animals, which you have to deal with in a good way and which have an intrinsic value of themselves. They're not just means of production. So you're gonna have to deal with these animals, too. If that is not the case and there are indications of it, then there will always be checks and interventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u67	I'm assuming that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u68	Did I give you the floor? I propose that we first listen to the speech of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u69	Mr President, this is the first time I've been interrupting. I would like to conclude my question. I assume that journalists make programmes with integrity and care. I'm not interested in this one individual company. The point is that all of us here are sending out a very clear signal that this is not acceptable, especially for all those farmers who are doing their best and dealing well with their animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u70	I cannot therefore say that this is unacceptable. I don't think it's acceptable for you to see your animals only as a means of production and running your business without love for your animals, but I've never met a farmer who does that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u71	I saw that Mrs Thieme had another question. I suggest that we then give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer the first-term questions, because he had hardly begun his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u72	We can of course think about whether a farmer does something with love and whether he takes good care of his animals in the sense that he gives them food and drink and has a pasture available for them. But the fact remains that practically all cows in the Netherlands are top athletes who have to produce up to 10,000 kilos of milk per year. So no matter how well you take care of such an animal, it suffers because it has to deliver such a high production. I've just asked for that and I'm trying to appreciate it one more time. Is it a natural way to keep a cow when it has to give so many liters of milk that it has been written off after three or four years and has to go to slaughter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u73	Production in the Netherlands has intensified over the past decades. This applies not only to the Netherlands and this sector, but also to the production of eggs, for example. This indeed sometimes has consequences for life expectancy, in this case of cows, but the same applies to chickens. They have a much shorter lifespan than they would have in nature if they lay eggs in a business environment. This is, of course, inherent in food production in which we also use the products of these animals, but we must, as far as possible, strike a balance between the production of the milk and eggs that we get from animals and dealing with animals that are as consistent with their natural behaviour as possible. I think you should always look at that. I would also like to support and encourage business models in which animals can behave as naturally as possible. Cows that walk in the meadow and have freedom of movement, chickens that can go outside: these are business models that I would like to put my weight behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u74	Then we come...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u75	This is the last interruption for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u76	Then we get somewhere, because cows that have such a high production can't just live off grass. They must have concentrated food, like soy from countries like Brazil. It is therefore still unsustainable to have such high-productive animals. During their lives, they suffer from udder problems, claw problems and often simply die of milk disease. I really ask the Secretary of State how we can achieve less high-production cows that can be kept in a natural way. In that I would like to work with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u77	I would also like to say a few words about the sector's own management of this issue. Mrs Thieme sometimes creates an image as if these kinds of questions did not exist in the sector itself. The opposite is the case. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u78	I suggest that we really listen to the Secretary of State's speech. If the members have something to discuss, they can do it in the hallway. I suggest we listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u79	I just wanted to end the questions and answer them as best I could. Mr Grashoff asked for a comprehensive vision of the future of dairy farming. Mr Grashoff knows that we will shortly come forward with proposals for the implementation of phosphate rights. I also think that this is a good time to outline a broader perspective on the future of dairy farming, because that system will, of course, also have a significant impact on this. Mr Grashoff knows that I attach great importance to grazing, soil binding and also to supporting entrepreneurs who run their farms on the scale that fortunately is still common in Dutch dairy farming. I have responded to Mrs Thieme's comment on the bio-industry. Mr van Gerven asked whether I recognise that the liberalisation of the milk market is a failure. I think that's a bit of an exaggeration. We knew that releasing the milk quota could lead to more production. The estimate at that time was not that production would increase so rapidly, but there is room for growth on the world market. This is also endorsed by the FAO and the European Commission. These are positive about market developments in the medium and longer term. The growth of the market is considered at a few percentage points per year. There is therefore room for increasing production, but in the Netherlands it will be limited by the possibilities offered by the environment and nature. In our country, all space is used very intensively. The challenge is always to keep the different uses in balance. This certainly applies to the balance between nature and agriculture. I will continue with a question from Mrs Koşer Kaya, but if Mr Van Gerven still wants to interrupt on the previous point, perhaps it would be better to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u80	You're going to ask the questions of all the individual members after this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u82	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u83	I'll do that on a subject-by-issue basis, let me add.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u84	How many topics are going to be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u85	It wasn't too bad. One question has been asked about phosphate, a few questions have been asked about animal welfare and two questions about grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u86	There is another debate scheduled for this evening. That's why I'm asking. Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u87	Whether it's a flop or not, let's take care of everyone, but what's the Secretary of State going to do acutely? We've been waiting a long time for what he's going to do. He himself notes that there is actually no room for growth, given the limitations because we already exceed all kinds of standards, especially with regard to manure and so on. So what exactly is the Secretary of State going to do today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, at least to put a brake on it and point it in a direction? He shouldn't wait till we're late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u88	There was room for growth, but that growth was bound by borders. That has always been made clear by my predecessor from the beginning. We were dealing with a ceiling for manure production, and if we went through it, we would need measures. We're through that ceiling now. The letter of 2 July last year announced the need for a system of phosphate rights. Mr Van Gerven, moreover, said a number of things about this in his term which I cannot place: the plans for phosphate rights of the Secretary of State, who he has not yet promoted. That's not true. The challenge is precisely to ensure that it does not stimulate further intensification. That is also why it takes some time to set up the system properly, so that we get back under the ceiling. We must do this in such a way that it does not encourage further intensification of this sector, but I have already mentioned that we are giving support to the very ordinary entrepreneurs in this sector. These entrepreneurs should not be left behind again and should not feel that they too should intensify because otherwise they will not be able to cope with competition. I did not understand Mr Van Gerven's comment on this new system either. I expect that we will be able to inform the Chamber about this in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u89	So let's not have that discussion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u90	Can I say that within a few weeks we can expect further policy on the phosphate problem and matters such as grazing from the Secretary of State? My first speech was about liberalisation, which was endorsed by the predecessor of this Secretary of State. As a result, there has been an intensification, with a phosphate surplus. That was the port of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u91	What happened? The milk quota has been released. In my opinion, Mr Van Gerven calls everything in this world 'liberalisation'. There is not necessarily liberalisation if you give ordinary Dutch farmers the opportunity to produce what is in demand. I have just indicated that this demand for milk products, for dairy products, is actually there. It is expected that demand will grow as well. In any case, the demand for food will grow enormously in the medium term. There is therefore always a good reason to consider whether entrepreneurs in the Netherlands can contribute to this. However, it will always have to be in such a way that there is respect for animal welfare and that there is a good balance between agriculture and nature. As far as I am concerned, these are the framework conditions on which we, as a government, are steering. It is not the case that, as Mr Van Gerven now suggests, you must necessarily steer on the total milk production. We are dealing with this balance between agriculture and nature, with the amount of manure produced in this sector. I find it much more logical for the government to set conditions for this than to steer the overall production.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u92	As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State is continuing his speech in a short and pointy manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mrs Koşer Kaya asked to what extent permits could still be granted for very large stables. This is for provinces and municipalities, which have both instruments in the context of spatial planning. The province can decide if it feels desirable. There are provinces that have already set limits. Furthermore, municipalities in, for example, zoning plans can set limits on the size of building blocks and, if they so wish, can thus prevent the construction of a very large barn on their territory. Mrs Vermue asked when farmers would know where they stand with phosphate rights. I was just saying, in a few weeks, in the short term. And by that, I mean in the first half of February. Let me put it this explicitly. That is what needs to be done, because farmers in this sector have a right to clarity. Mrs Thieme asked about a number of practices in dairy farming, in particular the treatment of calves. I have said a few times that an animal has an intrinsic value, even if it is used to produce milk for us. A farmer has an interest in his calves being healthy. I've already indicated that I didn't think the image from the ZEMBLA broadcast was entirely representative. This does not alter the fact that it is best to improve the well-being of calves. Again, this is a typical example which is also recognised in the sector itself. Dairy farming and calf farming speak about this and work together on the plan of approach Vitaal Kalf. I expect that in the short term. I'll inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mrs Thieme, we have just had the discussion we are about to have, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u95	No, this is about the calves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u96	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u97	The calf by the cow. That is a wish of my group. We know 30 dairy farmers already do. Of course, there aren't many of them on the 18,000. Is the Secretary of State prepared to play a role in the discussion in order to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u98	I was talking about the welfare of calves. Questions have also been asked by Mr Van Gerven about calves which are removed from the cow immediately after birth. I would just like to wait and see what the sector itself is doing for the welfare of calves. It is not for nothing that the sector itself has been involved in this. In the regular livestock sector, newborn calves are separated directly from the mother, unlike organic livestock farming where things are different. Mr Geurts was right to say that this is done because of milk production. It is often fed directly to the calves and the rest of the milk is milked for human consumption. The risk of infections is another reason why calves are quickly removed from the mother. Otherwise, they're at risk of getting sick. There are dairy farmers, Mrs Thieme, who rightly said that they are keeping the calf with the cow. This is particularly the case in organic dairy farming. This is also researched by the Louis Bolk Institute. This will hopefully lead to more knowledge of whether this practice could be broadened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u99	The Secretary of State quotes, but something unnatural goes wrong in the human brain when someone claims that a calf gets sick if it stays with his mother to get her milk. Okay, let's get this over with. In the welfare of calves, the Secretary of State also talks about the fact that they have a natural need for sucking that they can't afford anywhere. I have seen farmers in Gelderland who have put a nose ring on the calves with a cogwheel on them, so that they stay away from other calves, because that of course causes an unpleasant situation. We really think this is unethical. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that we should get rid of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u100	In any case, Mrs Thieme knows about this. She also knows the letter on animal welfare that my predecessor sent to me. I think and hope that there are better solutions than those that Mrs Thieme is now proposing. However, I would also like to say this: beware that you do not set such examples as if that is the practice in all dairy farming. I understand that people are asking whether separating calves from cows is entirely desirable. It is a crazy picture that the calf can become sick from drinking with its mother, Mrs Thieme, but it is the reality that this risk exists in the common livestock sector. There are antibodies in the cow's milk, especially in the first milk. Calves receive this milk, which is also necessary, but at the same time there is an infection risk which is taken into account in the farms. I like it when there are initiatives that allow calves to stay longer with the cow. It is good that this is being investigated and that it is being considered whether this practice can be extended further. However, the reality is that this is not the current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u101	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mrs Thieme also asked about the lifespan of cows. Aren't they going to the slaughter way too soon? The life expectancy of dairy cows has increased somewhat over the last few years and is now around five years and nine months. Businesses are committed to further sustainability. Through the initiative of NZO and LTO, the sustainable dairy chain, it is committed to extending the lifespan of dairy cows. The dairy farms also include the lifespan in the sustainability scores that farmers have to report. I therefore told Mrs Thieme that it was not the case that the sector did not pay attention to this. In fact, it's being steered to extend that lifespan. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked about the dehorning and said that she has not yet received an evaluation. As far as I could verify, no evaluation has been undertaken. In March, however, a letter will follow on the state of the art of dehorning. The House must bear in mind that horns also pose a major safety risk to farmers. Accidents happen all the time. Every year some farmers are injured and sometimes even worse, when farmers are killed by an accident with one of their animals. Horns can also play a role in this. The sector is working on alternatives, such as breeding breeds without horns and developing other farming systems. Agreements have also been made with the dairy sector on pain relief in dehorning. I'll be at the meadow hall. Mrs Koşer Kaya asked if you can actually speak of pasture milk when the cow is usually in the stables. Can't the cow get into the meadow a little more often? That's a good plan. If the temperatures remain a bit like in the past few days, this year the cows will undoubtedly be able to get into the meadow earlier. Of course, it has everything to do with temperature. If it's too cold, the grass doesn't grow and so it doesn't make sense to send the cow into the meadow, because then she has nothing to eat there. Therefore, a kind of lower limit has been agreed whereby grazing can actually be described as grazing. That is when animals are in the meadow for at least 120 days per year for 6 hours. A lot of farmers feed longer than that. That can be done, for example, if they have a good, large house plot. There are also farmers who pasture less pastures but still pasture. That's important, too. 70% of cows are pastured on the basis of these criteria, but about 8.5% are pastured during part of this time. So those cows come out part of the year. 120 days means that cows are outside for at least 4 months. I told you, it's longer with a lot of cows. You have to keep in mind that there must be grass in the meadow. A study was also requested which feared that only 58% of cows would be eligible for grazing this year. I cannot quite place that, because the figures for the past year are still around 70%. The first figures on the number of farms also indicate that around 70% of the farms still leave the cows in pasture. Unfortunately, therefore, there has been a decline, from the full 70% in 2013 to 69% in the past year, but I still dare to say that the decline in grazing has in any case been brought to a halt. The stakes are now to bend this again. For that I would not like to break open the Covenant Weidegang, as was suggested. On the contrary, I want to come up with a new action plan together with the covenant partners in order to achieve the ambition of 80% grazing by 2020. We also look at what we can offer additional support. I intend to send the cabinet response to the Wei for the cow initiative paper to the Chamber in the first half of February. That was also a question from Mrs Koşer Kaya. This, in my opinion, is the answer to the questions put by the Chamber, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u103	We've been through this, but I'm gonna take a look at the spokesmen. Yeah, so do the members. Is there a need for a second term with the spokesmen? That's the case. Is there a need for a suspension prior to that second deadline? That is not the case, but Mr Grashoff has another request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u104	No, Mr. Chairman, I had another interruption, but I was a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u105	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u106	I understand the Secretary of State's comment on the breach of the Covenant, but is it realistic, given the trend so far, to assume that the Covenant will produce the result at all without additional, more binding measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u107	It shows that additional efforts are needed. In December, agreements have already been reached with the partners and we will soon be giving information on how we intend to use and include the additional 30 million from Brussels. In the cabinet's response to the own-initiative paper, I will go into the additional commitment of business and myself to more pasture. I agree with Mr Grashoff that additional efforts are needed. So they're gonna be there, and he's gonna hear about that in a couple of weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u108	For the upcoming recess, to be exact. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Thieme in the second term. Speaking time is one third of that in the first term, including reading out any motions. So you've been warned in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mr. Chairman. I take that warning to heart. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. It is still the beginning of the debate that we will have on dairy farming in the coming period. So we have not yet reached a decision on it. I'd like to file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that studies conclude that breeding on higher milk production leads to welfare and health problems;]] [[calls on the government to put an end to the breeding of highly productive cows,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the removal of calves from their mothers immediately after birth has serious consequences for the well-being and resistance of both calves and cows;]] [[calls on the Government to present within six months a plan of action aimed at leaving calves with the mother for a fixed period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the senior researcher and theme leader animal welfare at the WUR Animal Sciences Group states that nose brackets with points can lead to pain and irritation in calves;]] [[Whereas such anti-suction devices are no longer of this time;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a ban on the use of these anti-sucking agents in livestock farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-103]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-104]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u110	We can get rid of the name. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u111	Then the motion will be modified accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mr. Chairman. We will soon be talking about livestock farming, phosphate rights, milk production and grazing. Then I will also make any proposals, so no motions from my hand today. Above all, I want to make it very clear today that abuses serve as an example for many other farmers. We don't want abuses to happen. We must also take a firm stand against this. That must also be clearly stated here and action must also be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing any motions today. That has a bit to do with the state in which the debate is taking place. We are still talking about the initiative paper of the SP, D66 and GroenLinks. For our part, there are very clear proposals for improvements in grazing and related animal welfare. That is what we are going to discuss, as well as the phosphate rights and the regulations that comply with them. So, in that respect, we're not there yet. I am pleased to note that at least the Secretary of State's intentions are in line with our intentions. We want this grazing and animal welfare to be at a good level. Whether it should be by soft means or hard means, I continue to be deeply concerned about the situation and future developments. I sometimes think about that: I would like to be wrong with my concern. But for now, it's still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u114	GroenLinks has not filed any motions. That is why I would very much like to know whether we believe that calves should come to the cow. I do not think there is any mention of this in the initial note, so I would like to clarify it here. Perhaps we can count on the support of GroenLinks for our motion on the calf at the cow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u115	You can also wait until Tuesday; then you will know it in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u116	I think it is an excellent question, which creates clarity. The motions on separating the calf and the cow so quickly will certainly be supported, just like those on the nose bracket and the like. We simply agree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying that feeding human babies naturally leads to healthier children who are less often ill. The Secretary of State's remark that early removal of calves would be better for health is therefore not in line with what is common in people. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young calves are removed from their mothers immediately after birth;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to address this animal welfare problem adequately and send it to the Chamber in 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u118	I would like to make one more comment. In an interruption debate with the spokesperson of the VVD, I stated in the first term that 90% of the cows in North Holland are stabled. That was a mistake, because in North Holland the meadow is just 90%. The great culprit is Flevoland, where there is more than 70% in stables. We are going to have a debate on this, but it is a remarkable difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr Geurts of the CDA Group waived a second term. That is why I give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. I started to speak proudly on behalf of the VVD Group towards the sector. It is a sustainable, high-productive and efficient sector, producing high-quality and affordable products. I welcome the words of the Secretary of State. He puts the sector in the right light and perspective. At the end of this debate, therefore, I do not understand so many of the parties on the left side of the Chamber. For the climate issue, the development of biodiversity, the sustainability, the Dutch agriculture and horticulture I take control of the wider solution. It's gonna be paired like that. I deeply regret that. I hope that these parties will once again give hoo-hoo or hoo-hoo. We will certainly have the debates on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u121	I saw Mr Grashoff rushing forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u122	It would be wise if we could at last lose Mrs Lodder's mantra over the 9 billion mouths to be fed from the smallest meat and milk exporting country in the world. That's just bullshit. I think Mrs Lodders would be wise if she stopped doing so once. The first thing we need to do about the world food situation is to eat less meat and dairy; these things have something to do with each other. There is also a great deal of efficiency to be done in animal husbandry, but in countries where this standard is extremely low. That's where it would be wise to raise that standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u123	It's not bullshit, it's the facts. I refer to several publications. Perhaps I could recommend, for example, to Mr Grashoff a publication by Hidde Boersma, a biologist with a very good story on these aspects. If you are talking about biodiversity, which is extremely important for this globe, then you should call for more intensive farming with less soil, less raw materials and the same or higher production. The whole world could use our knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u124	I give the floor to Mrs Vermue. I would point out to my fellow Members that she can be interrupted from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. Farmers deserve clarity about the phosphate ceiling, and grazing deserves ambition. I am therefore pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that we can expect clarity on both issues in the first half of February. I have one supplementary question on the possible limitation of the mega-stables: when does the animal numbers law come to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u126	Those interruptions will come later. I see the Secretary of State can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr. Chairman. A number of members made general comments. In any case, I was pleased to hear from various quarters of the Chamber that they were satisfied. That is not always the case, so that is a good starting point for the debates that we have to have with each other in the short term. There were no further questions or requests to me for a reply, so I shall confine myself to what has been submitted and to the explicit questions that have been asked. Mrs Thieme has tabled three motions. In the motion in part No. 103 calls on the government to put an end to the breeding of highly productive cows. I don't recommend that motion. It is really up to the sector how it is implemented, as long as it complies with the rules on animal welfare. In the motion in part No. 104 calls on the Commission to present within six months a plan of action aimed at leaving calves with the mother for a certain period of time. I also advise against that motion. I have indicated that there is an investigation from the Louis Bolk Institute into a few farmers who have been leaving the calves with the mother cow for some time. I suggest the Chamber wait and see what comes out of that. I have also indicated to the Chamber that there will be a plan for sustainability from the sector. Perhaps this can still be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u128	Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber whether that investigation is about to be completed or whether it could take another year? Does he have any insight into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u129	I'm afraid to say that. I can inform the Chamber more about that. However, I have indicated that we expect the plan to make the sector more sustainable in the short term. So I don't know if it can be taken in here. Maybe we can still do that. The sector is listening, so perhaps this can still be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u130	Will the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of when that investigation has been completed? That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u131	Is that about the research of the Louis Bolk Institute? Yeah, I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u132	May I add that it might be wise to do so before the votes so that Mrs Thieme can decide whether to hold or even withdraw that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u134	I believe that next Tuesday we shall be voting on the motions. We are going to do our best to ensure that there is clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u135	It's Wednesday today, so it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u136	That should work. I'll come to the motion in part No. 105. It calls for a ban on the use of anti-sucking products in livestock farming. As a general rule, I would advise against the motion. I have already indicated that this is an exception and not a practice. It takes a little too far to make separate regulations for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u137	The motion is not general. These are the anti-suction agents mentioned: nose brackets with points. I'd like a ban on that. I don't care if they're used in three or four farmers or in a hundred. The point is, you don't use drugs like that. I want a signal from this Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u138	We have talked about animal welfare measures before. I do not intend to make separate regulations for this. If a majority of the House feels otherwise, I will hear it, but I stand by the judgment I have given on this motion. Not all the practices we consider undesirable should be banned immediately by means of additional rules. It seems to me that it is something for the sector itself to continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u139	I will change the motion so that it becomes clear that it is really about the nose bracket with points. It's not about all the antiseptics. I hope to receive support for this next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u140	I would like to make a comment on the purity of the debate. I have heard the Secretary of State clearly say that he will still discourage a motion with a change in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u141	I can never give an opinion on a motion that I do not have in front of me, but I have indicated that I find a request for separate regulations to go too far. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u142	That clarification seemed appropriate to me. Then the motion to part No. 106.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u143	I should first like to comment on Mr Van Gerven's speech. He meant to quote me, but he didn't exactly do that right. I'm sure that will happen. He thought I had said that removing calves would be better for the health of those calves. I didn't say that. I don't think he heard that either. I have indicated that in some cases it is chosen by the farmer himself, because of the risk of infection. That is something else, because I have also indicated that calves do receive the first milk. This must also be because it contains antibodies that are very important for calves. The comparison he made with breast milk is therefore very appropriate. That is why calves are given milk. Mr Van Gerven has taken part in the debate. 106 tabled a motion similar to the motion in part No. 104 by Mrs Thieme. I would therefore like to discourage the motion for the same reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u144	Would you like an explanation, Mr Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u145	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The motion does indeed have the same meaning, but it has been reworded. We leave room for a solution. The motion merely asks whether the existing practice is the best. That is called into question, but what is the best solution, let's put it in the middle. Can I interpret the debate so far in such a way that, at least in the sector, but perhaps supported by the Secretary of State, there will be a vision on what is best in relation to the animal welfare aspects?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr Van Gerven says "what is best from the animal welfare perspective," but the researchers disagree. In response to Mrs Thieme's motion, I have therefore indicated that we should await the study of the Louis Bolk Institute. That institute conducts practical research on cattle farmers who leave calves longer with the mother cow. I have no other response to this motion. Mr Van Gerven may say that he has put it slightly differently, but it comes down to the same thing. So my judgment is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u147	The time aspect is longer and that is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u148	There's no point in palavering over a motion when the Secretary of State has given his opinion, is there? I mean, isn't it obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr President, this is not a palaver. I am trying to find support from the Secretary of State for this good motion, and there is one aspect of its feasibility in terms of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u150	Both motions put the ball to the government. Moreover, I do not expect a plan from the sector itself in the long term for sustainability. There is another investigation and I think we should wait and see. It doesn't matter how long the time horizon is. Even if those five years are going to be, that still doesn't change my attitude in terms of content. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the question of the PvdA Group: when can we expect the animal numbers law? Both in the budgetary procedure and in a letter, I promised that I would come to the Chamber with an opinion on whether it would be possible, with the animal numbers law, to achieve an added value in relation to what the Chamber itself has now incorporated into the Environment Act. The interviews about the animal numbers law took place before the Environment Act was dealt with here. At that time, the Chamber itself amended a number of possibilities in the law in order to be able to influence public health in the context of environmental policy. And that was the whole background of that animal numbers law. We are now considering whether such a law can have any added value over what is already provided for in the Environment Act. I expect the House to be able to say more about this in the spring. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u151	Can you indicate more precisely what you mean by "in the spring"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr President, I can tell you that very precisely. Spring runs from 21 March to 20 June. Really much more precise than that, I can't do it. Let me put it this way: I will try to do it in time for the spring so that it is still possible to discuss it with each other before the summer recess. Shall we say "first half of spring"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u153	Shall we say "before May 15th"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u154	You're counting very quickly, Mr. President! I'm gonna try to get it to the Chamber by May 15th.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u155	I have a habit of setting a date when I'm sitting here with a commitment. That's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u156	I think we can make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u157	This brings us to the end of the answer given by the Secretary of State, and we thank him very much for that. We shall vote on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday.
