ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Taverne. He was supported by Mr Jasper Boon and Mr Matthijs Hazenkamp of the VVD Group and by Mr Reinier Fleurke and Mrs Marieke Liedorp of the Ministry of the Interior in trade-K in the defence of the initiative proposal. I would also like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations in his role today as advisor to the Chamber. We are ready to respond in the first term and I give the floor to Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Voting in elections is not only the most important but also the most personal contribution to democracy. With your vote, you give us the right to represent you as MPs, statesmen or city councilmen. As far as I am concerned, this right includes our expensive duty to ensure that the result is as precise as possible, because every vote counts. I have therefore chosen to write an initiative law that will make it possible not only to determine the results of future elections more quickly, but also, above all, more precisely. The implementation of this legislative proposal, I would stress, is that the completeness of the legislation is clearly not conducive to the national introduction of electronic voting. The proposal only makes it possible to experiment on a limited scale. In the event of success, if the Chamber still wants it at the time, it can be adopted nationally. In doing so, I immediately answered the first question from Mr Veldman in this case. With this proposal, we are ensuring that more people can vote independently, less invalid votes are cast and fewer mistakes are made when counting the votes, so that ultimately the result is more precise. The result will also be more democratic, more precise voting will be counted, because counting errors will now be a thing of the past. Mr Bosma's question has therefore been answered. He is not there now as to the usefulness and necessity of this law. This brings me to the point I should have started with: saying warm words of thanks to my colleagues for their contribution in the first term. In any case, their questions showed that we share a great deal of commitment on this issue. That's a good start. This involvement is best summarized in Mrs Oosenbrug's words, she is not here and I see that Mrs Fokker is replacing her, who said in the first term that the objective should be taken as a guideline. It is thinking of reducing the number of invalid votes, promoting the inclusion of votes and promoting self-voting, because "it is finally a matter of voting safely in a way that is accessible to almost everyone." That's exactly what I'm trying to do with my bill. I'll divide the answer into four blocks. I'll start with the system of the bill. Then I would like to deal in practice with the functioning of the legislative proposal, followed by questions on the cost of the proposal, to conclude with a few words on the opinions that have been asked or unsolicited on this proposal. I shall begin with the system of the proposal. The proposal makes it possible to set up experiments in which voting can be done using a voice printer and a voting counter. This means that you will always see on paper what voice you have cast. You take this voice out of the voice printer and then put it in the ballot box. The content shall be counted electronically and automatically at the end of the election day. This system is in line with the opinion of the Van Beek Commission, which has looked into this issue, and is much safer than the voting machines used in the Netherlands until 2007. Mr Veldman, Mr Van Raak, Mrs Koşer Kaya, Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Amhaouch asked questions about the framework nature of my proposal, in particular about the further development of AMvB and its parliamentary involvement. This proposal for a temporary experimental law provides the framework for conducting experiments with printers and counters. This means that there is still some work to be done, but that this law lays down the safeguards to be met by the apparatus, the purpose of the experiment and the specific provisions to be derogated from in the Kieswet for that reason. This law also has a very conscious temporary character, in order to avoid endless experimentation. This law also provides that each experiment must be evaluated separately. I have also deliberately opted for a broad impact in a general measure of governance with a veil. This makes it possible to adapt flexibly to changes that are necessary to make this way of voting a success, without depriving the House of Representatives of its supervisory and legislative powers. By choosing controlled delegation, participation of both Chambers is guaranteed. This also applies expressly to the Upper House, which, as Mr Van Raak, as a former member of that Chamber, knows as no other, is also keen to be involved. After all, it is about the carelessness of our democratic process. This care is further enhanced by the fact that the AMvB is also submitted to the Council of State for advice after the end of its term of office. In other words, there is no ice going in one night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u3	That's very good. I am very pleased with that, but of course the Election Council notes that legislation in the area of electoral law should always take place at the level of the law in principle. Through this initiative, this is done by General Measure of Management. That is a form on which the Chamber has much less influence, much less directly involved. Then what's the advantage of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u4	I have just outlined the advantage: it is experiments that require a lot of technology, technology that is constantly evolving. In order to make the most of the technology available during that five-year period during which it is possible to experiment on this law, and to be able to respond as quickly and flexibly as possible, it is important that this is done at AMvB. Once again, it is an AMvB with a front, just to give the two Chambers the best opportunity to exert influence within that flexibility. The Council of State is also heard. Apart from that, it is important to note the following: of course the Election Council is right, but also in the current Election Act much is already regulated by AMvB. We sometimes have the illusion that, even in our current electoral process, everything is regulated in detail in the formal law, but it is not. The way of counting, to give an example, is regulated at all but very limited. It is not agreed that after emptying the ballot box, it should be counted in a certain order, how high the stacks should be and how often something needs to be checked. None of that's gonna be taken care of. The current experiments initiated by the government also use AMvBs equally. In other words, it is not very special what I do in this area. I will continue my speech. The Van Beek Committee has rightly issued the opinion that in the event of major changes in the voting and counting process, experiments should be carried out on a small scale before the Kieswet is substantially amended. That is why I deliberately opted for a temporary experimental law and not for a permanent change to the Tickets Act. Our democratic process does not lend itself to 'big steps, quick home'. We will first gain small-scale experience by experimenting in elections at local level, such as reclassification elections or elections for municipal councils or some municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u5	I would like to continue on Mr Van Raak's point. Indeed, I have the same letter from the Election Council and I thought last Tuesday that we had a simple debate on a ballot, but that was dealt with up to the Constitution. The Election Council points out that it is possible to ask whether the proposed legislative proposal, with the proposed broad possibility of delegation, is in line with the general principle of voting rights and elections, which should in principle be regulated at the level of the law. There are also three reasons. Mr Taverne says that this happens all the time. But this is a rather recent letter from the Election Board, which is quite specific about this initiative legislative proposal. I have the feeling that the Election Board finds it rather unusual and actually says that it does not entirely relate to the way in which we set it up in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u6	I do not share that interpretation of the Opinion of the Election Board. Of course, I agree with the starting point, but that applies to almost all the legislation we make: you obviously want to lay it down in formal legislation as much as possible. But we don't have AMvBs for nothing. In reply to Mr Van Raak's question and Mrs Fokke's, I merely note that I am not playing down the fact that AMVBs are now being used. I merely note that this principle has been used for a very long time and very much by AMvBs, in experimental laws based on the Tickets Act, but also in the current Tickets Act, the analogue process I call it. Again, I understand the determination of the Election Council and I share it. But it's not unusual, and I don't do anything weird in that regard. Once again, I think that there is certainly a very good reason for using AMvBs in terms of technology, but also AMvBs in front of them, precisely in order to give both chambers and the Council of State the best chance of getting their light on them within the possibilities of flexibility offered by an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u7	You are referring to an AMvB with fronts, but I can assume that when the letter was written, it was well known that the AMvB that Mr Taverne meant was an AMvB with fronts. In this sense, I believe that the criticism is mainly based on the current legislative proposal in which the AMvB has a veil. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u8	I note that the opinion is indeed an opinion that I have requested on my legislative proposal. Again, I read the same thing as Mrs Fokke, but my interpretation is different; it is mainly based on the standing practice of using AMvBs in Kiestwet matters. That's all I can make of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u9	I can follow the reasoning of that AMvB until Mr Taverne talks about a weighted suspension procedure, involving both the Council of State, the Second Chamber and the First Chamber. Then why don't we just make it a legal process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u10	That is because you want to be optimally flexible, without taking more than necessary account of the legislative process. An AMvB with veil offers the possibility to involve both Chambers and the Council of State, and is still easier and more flexible to use than when you have to put all kinds of very technical details into a formal law. By the time you've done that, the technique will be so far away that you can make a new law or change the law. Given that this is an experiment with electronic tools in the voting process for a limited period of time, i.e. five years, this provides a good balance between, on the one hand, the involvement of the two chambers, including the Council of State, and, on the other hand, the possibility of experimenting with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u11	Surely it cannot be that in the proposed front hanging process we go so detailed with stacks of prints coming from the voting machine? That whole process you want is a legislative process that is laid down in an AMvB. You can do that in a law, and you can do that soon. You can avoid the problem of the Election Council. We often have laws here, such as tax laws, that go through both the Second and the First Chambers in an emergency, including the Council of State. So there doesn't have to be that time problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u12	I do not entirely agree with Mr Klein. I have had the impression, also in view of the first period last week, that the Chamber actually thinks that too little is laid down in the law if you look critically at it. The Court believes that more should be done and that less should be left to AMVBs. That is, I suppose, because the Chamber wants to have as much influence as possible, precisely on the details of the experiment. In my opinion, the nature of an experiment, certainly an experiment with technical facilities, does not relate to the formal legislative process. I've been looking for a balance between those two. I repeat, on the one hand, the involvement of the Chamber and the Council of State in order for the Chamber to be able to shed its full light on this matter and to form an opinion on it, on the other hand, sufficient speed to respond to the possibilities offered by the technique in that limited period of five years for which this experimental law would apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u13	Isn't it true that the voting procedures need to be laid down by law? After all, they're going to change. In doing so, the eight securities appointed by the Corthals Altes Committee are laid down by law. I can understand that for the experiment at a later stage or at the same stage you deal with technical matters in a pending procedure at an AMvB. However, we do not have the answer to the question of why you do not regulate voting by law, as the Election Council also states.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u14	Because these voting actions and the exact form ultimately depend heavily on the chosen technical methodology: do you press a hard button or a screen that is sensitive? In my legislative proposal, I set out the frameworks within which the experiments should be possible. I agree with the eight safeguards as formulated by the Korthals Altes Committee. I shall come back to that in my text, by the way. This also guarantees that the experiment, which is limited in time, size and character, is justified from a guarantee point of view and from a legal point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u15	I think the reasoning here goes wrong. Whether you press a hard screen or a soft screen, that's something that doesn't belong in the law, just as it doesn't say in today's Election Law that you're using a pencil of 2 centimeters or 6 centimeters. It does say you're using a pencil. Once again, the voting procedures are what are you doing and in what order? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Those acts need to be handled by law. Either you come up with an experiment for which you regulate the law or the AMvB and at the same time give substance to the experiment in one or two municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u16	What is regulated by the law is the guarantees that must be met. All this remains within the framework, as far as possible. Some of them are somewhat mutually exclusive, as Mr Amhaouch knows. After all, he is well acquainted with the conditions. That is the starting point. Whatever is connected to this is the following. It's good to bring that to your attention. The fact that, in ugly Dutch, there must be a paper trail as a starting point for the voting process fits in with the Kieswet. That was very different, for example, from what was used until 2007. A voice didn't come out of that at all. You couldn't control that. Those are all important safeguards to ensure that no crazy things can happen in those experiments. However, I do not agree with Mr Amhaouch, because we do not even know exactly what can be done in terms of technology. The industry can't deliver until we've passed this law. Companies must have enough space to use their innovation. The example of the red pencil is of course nice, because the law does not state how long, how short or how thick the pencil must be. However, if you continue to use the way that some people look at an electronic voting process, you should. If you have a pencil with a pen of 5 mm and a voting booth of 3 mm and if the rule is that your voice is invalid when you scratch outside the voting booth, that has a direct influence. Then we should really regulate the voting process in the smallest detail in the law. We haven't done that now. I also do not believe that the Chamber has that ambition. I have the ambition to take advantage of the technological opportunities that are now available. They are best served within the framework of an experimental law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u17	I see that Mr Van Raak has a question. I would like to ask Members to keep their interruptions brief and concise, and I would ask the initiator to respond briefly and concisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think we have not so much a technical problem as a legal problem. I have asked whether this proposal is not premature. Mr Taverne now wants to arrange an experiment by law, but we still have no idea of that experiment. If we had had any insight into that experiment, we could have settled it now in the law, but because we are now going to arrange an experiment in the law that we don't know yet, it can't be other than that this will happen soon at General Measure of Management. I think it is very brave that Mr Taverne is trying to defend that a General Measure of Governance is better here, but of course it is simply a matter of timeliness. That is inevitable if we now pass a law on an experiment we do not know yet. Again, if we had known the experiment, we would of course have laid it down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u19	In my opinion, the frameworks outlined in this legislative proposal give a very good picture of the experiment that will be possible within the framework of the law. It would be weird if things were different. In the end, we only know what technology is available within the frameworks that this law provides in types of experiment. That's what's being recorded. We're not writing a blank check. We don't say, "Look what you do with equipment." Not at all! This takes place within the safeguards that I have outlined and discussed and which are therefore laid down in this legislative proposal. So I do not think that you are fully respecting the reality of this proposal if you say that it is not established which type of experiment is being conducted. However, we cannot lay down in the law what equipment is used. That is simply not possible because the equipment is not yet available. It must be possible on the basis of this law. So it's really a chicken or egg discussion. Just because I want to break the deadlock that this equipment is not being developed because it is not legally possible to use it in the Netherlands, I want to gain insight through an experiment into what that equipment can do. This must be done within the safeguards laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u20	That's right. Now we're hitting the core. An important reason for Mr Taverne to make this proposal is that he wants to give industry the certainty of an experiment so that it can develop devices. Companies aren't going to develop devices if there's no certainty about an experiment. This law actually anticipates the holding of the experiment and the purchase of equipment, while I think: let the equipment come first and then we can see if we want to experiment. I would ask Mr Taverne, as a liberal, to let the market work first and then politics, not the other way round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u21	Well, what am I supposed to say? Again, it's a chicken or egg discussion. I fully agree with Mr Van Raak that the industry should eventually start making these devices. I do not think it is so strange that she does not do that for countries where it is not permitted by law to use them. You can't blame anyone for that, can you? If something isn't allowed somewhere, you're not going to develop a product that isn't allowed there. In this case, I think it is a good way to break the deadlock through an experiment or experiment law. Yes: Mr Van Raak is right that I have not yet seen these devices being made for the Dutch situation. However, I am convinced that will happen as soon as it is allowed. By the way, that is also the only way to get a serious impression of what these things are going to cost. I am sure we will be able to talk about this later. In the end, we can make a sound and reasoned decision and decide whether we think that this is a good idea for the future in the Netherlands. Until then, it's all wet fingering, a little thinking about whether it could or not and what it would cost. We don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u22	I like it when the discussion is made more concrete. The Council of State has said quite simply that the framework conditions mentioned in the initiative proposal should be developed later, before you can actually actually carry out that experiment. Now I also have an expert opinion here, in which security experts indicate that they have considerable reservations about the voting printer, because of the risk of breaking the voting secret. Well, at least in the front, you'd have to know what to do if that happens. How are we going to shape or regulate the secret of voting in such a way that there are no problems? Don't you have to do that in the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u23	We are. In order to respond properly to Mrs Koşer Kaya's question, I would like to know which section and which experts are responsible for that assessment. There are a lot of people who have expressed their views on this issue. It's good to know who that was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u24	This concerns Mr Prins of the Expert Group on Electronic Voting and Counting. The group also asked for advice from security experts. They're reporting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u25	That's an important committee. It is led by Mr Prins and has indeed spoken out on the specifications in particular. The security discussion is crucial. What the devices used at the time turned the neck is that until 2007 safety could not be guaranteed. This was particularly true in the area of voting secrecy. Mrs Koşer Kaya probably also knows that the reason for this was that these were devices or computers that recorded the voice on a computer that was part of a network of computers. As a result, two major risks arose. The moment you broke into that network of computers, you might have been able to figure out how it was voted. In addition, there was the possibility of so-called eavesdropping of these devices. In particular, the Group We trust voting machines did not reveal that at the time. That's very good, because it was an important problem that you could remotely eavesdrop on how those devices were tuned. That would not guarantee the secret of voting. The devices used in countries around us and the conditions I impose in my bill take that into account. They require experiments to be done with voting machines. Those are devices you're voting on and where a paper print of your voice comes out. Your voice will not be recorded. Actually, it's a voice printer. It's all not rocket science, but rather relatively old-fashioned technique. It is precisely from the point of view of security that this is the wisest thing to do. Your voice comes out and then you get your own note and you put it in a bus. This is also an important guarantee of voting secrecy. By the way, such a device will still be in a voting booth with a curtain, so one can't see what you're doing. I believe that the safety aspects, to which I have devoted a great deal of attention in the proposal, are particularly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u26	The point is that you are at risk if the voice printer may lead to risks in the context of voting secrecy. You must also have rules on the front from which you can determine what the steps are when that problem arises? My question focuses on the latter. We need a law at the front, and then we need to discuss the substance of the matter properly on whether we have properly regulated voting secrecy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think I got that right. Otherwise, Mrs Koşer Kaya will have to indicate more precisely what part of the bill she thinks is inadequate, because then I would be very happy to look into it with her. The legislative proposal now lays down the conditions, also from a safety point of view, that must be met in order to be able to experiment. The secret of voting is a crucial element of this. That's what happens in front of the bill. Within the frameworks outlined in the legislative proposal, experiments may soon be carried out on the basis of an AMvB. If Mrs Koşer Kaya does not think that the impact in an AMvB is sufficient, there is an opportunity to bring that up. However, I do not see it again, and I am recommending improvements and suggestions on how I could formulate and lay down this requirement more stringently in the legislative proposal than has been done at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u28	I wanted to go back to the chicken and the egg anyway, and not because I would like another spokesperson, but simply because I have another question about that. I don't really get it. Once upon a time, we had an egg, called voting machines. They turned out to be pretty useless in the end. We can all agree on that. That's why we have another pencil. If such a debacle occurs, I'd think you'd start developing a computer that you're going to test and that actually works. Why does Mr Taverne make it a chicken or egg discussion? I'd go for that computer first and test it. If it works, we're out, and then we're not gonna do what we've already done again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mrs Fokke and I are in complete agreement. As I have just explained, the technique allowed by this bill in experimental form is completely different from the technique used until 2007. The reason why the technique in the present proposal is different is precisely why Mrs Fokke put forward: the technique at the time was working badly. I have just outlined in key points why this was so: the voice was recorded, there was no paper print and those things were connected. The experiments allowed by this bill have learned from this. So anything that was used until 2007 can no longer be used on the basis of this experimental law. That should reassure Mrs. Fokke. On the subject of the chicken or egg debate, I say the same thing as I said to Mr Van Raak. I can't fix those devices. I know there are a lot of companies that can. Just because electoral laws vary from country to country, precisely because it listens so closely, you usually need a legal basis to allow electronic equipment to be used in the electoral process. It is not surprising that industry does not start making huge investments for a computer focused on a country where electronic devices are not allowed. You don't have to be a huge free-market liberal to understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u30	That is what we differ on, because I would think that we really want a device to work, so there will be a device that you can test afterwards. I really don't believe that the market is waiting for this bill to move until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u31	But practice proves that, I think, because there are no devices allowed in the Netherlands. More importantly, if I were to follow Mrs Fokke's reasoning, this would mean that the industry would say: well, no idea what we should agree to, because according to the law in the Netherlands it is not allowed, but we would just make a device and then ask them if they are going to use it. We will then say: no, we cannot, because we have laid down in the law that you can only vote with pencil and paper. Does Mrs Fokke expect us to say that we are adapting the law to the model that has been developed for us? I'd like that, but of course it doesn't work that way. It would also be unwise and ignore the responsibility we have here to lay down in the law how our voting process goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u32	And you'll come back at the cost, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u33	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u34	The initiator continues his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. Through experiments we can also gain experience with the organisational aspects of voting according to a new methodology. Those knowledge and insights can again be used in successful experiments that may also be rolled out nationally after evaluation. It goes without saying that at that time the Tickets Act should be further amended in non-experimental law. This also addresses a bit of Mrs Fokke's point. Mr Van Raak has already hinted at the timeliness of the proposal. Mrs Koşer Kaya also asked about this. I would just like to stress once again that I believe that we should not wait for the legal definition of the framework within which an experiment should be allowed. Nor should we wait for the market demand announced by the Minister. The framework conditions within which voice printing and voice counters can be used are known. I included it in the bill, too. Looking at what is happening in other countries, but also at the companies that are active in the Netherlands, I assume that it is possible to introduce this in the Netherlands. If that's what we want, we're gonna have to move on a little bit now. I still have the ambition, for example, to do so at the end of 2017 or in the municipal elections of 2018. If we wait until, for example, the first market demand, we will live at the end of this year. Before we can start a legislative process, it might be early next year. That is perhaps also Mrs Koşer Kaya's question. Then we are so advanced that the technique is probably outdated and then we can start again. I think that by adopting this framework law we are doing ourselves a favour, because then we can also easily start experiments within the established frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u36	Careful first, I say. The security expert writes "I quote "that confidence in the supplier should not be assumed. The government should not be naive in that." That's a big deal! I can't just put this next to me, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u37	Sure. That is why I tabled this bill. It lays down what must be met and within which frameworks an experiment may be allowed. That is why I am recommending to the AMvB and I propose to arrange for further elaboration. I do this precisely because we should not be naive, precisely because we, as legislators, have a heavy responsibility, especially in matters of electoral law, to be very precise and careful, also because of the previous experience. I do not want to give the impression that nothing has been learned from the experience until 2007 or that nothing has happened in the last ten years and technology has stopped. I think that Mrs Koşer Kaya is right to use this proposal, because it lays down what she wants. I find that quite different from when we would ask industry or the market to develop something, where we do not say how or what, and then clearly she is allowed to use it here. That seems to me to be the opposite way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u38	One last attempt. Although the framework is defined in the law, it does not have the effect. That effect is crucial if we are not to re-establish the reproach of naivety that is referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u39	I give the initiator the opportunity for a brief response and then he can continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u40	That is precisely why the work is done at AMvB with a veil, so that the Lower House, the Upper Chamber and the Council of State can find something about it. If at that stage one of the two chambers or the Council of State has comments which lead to adjustments here, I think that is the guarantee. To be honest, I wouldn't know what the advantage would be of regulating that effect by formal law. The downside is that you can't respond quickly to changing technology. I think that with the design of a framework law and an AMvB with veils, the security, guarantees and a careful process, the points that Mrs Koşer Kaya considers so important, as I do, are guaranteed. I would like to come back to the question of why I believe it is important to use this bill to take a next step in developing the use of electronic tools in our voting process. If we wait a long time, we'll be running a further time lag. I think this would be unwise, precisely because we want to use that technique. In order to start in good time, I hope that at the beginning of next year the AMvB can be drawn up, which will pass through this Chamber, the Upper Chamber and the Council of State, so that they can assess the further impact. Then Mrs Koşer Kaya can also give her opinion on whether the guarantees and the guarantees in that AMvB are adequately addressed. Delay means that it is uncertain whether experiments can be carried out in the reclassification elections, at the end of next year, or in the municipal elections, at the beginning of the following year. Mr Veldman, Mr Klein and Mrs Koşer Kaya asked questions about voting on the Internet. I share the view of the questioners that it would be very pleasant for the Dutch electorate group abroad to be able to vote on the Internet. That is why I had included this in the initial legislative proposal. However, I have become convinced that this technical step is, if possible, even more complicated than this one. I did not wish to raise any further objections to this legislative process with a large second subject, given the detailed examination of this proposal. However, I very much welcome the fact that the cabinet announced that it would start a test at the end of this year to see to what extent voices via the Internet could help the Dutch electorate group abroad. Then I come to the second part of my reply on the functioning of the legislative proposal in practice. Mrs Koşer Kaya and Mrs Oosenbrug have indicated that they consider it important that votes be safe. I think we all agree on that in this house. It would be strange if things were different. It is absolutely right that they have drawn particular attention to the importance of voting secrecy. Article 4 of my proposal provides, inter alia, that the secret nature of the vote must be sufficiently guaranteed. Experiments are not possible without complying with that requirement. In short, that is a crucial demand that I have formulated. The precise implementation goes through an AMvB where the toughest possible procedure we have for an AMvB is applicable. In short, both Chambers and the Council of State have ample opportunity to interfere, to add or, if they do not trust it, to say that they do not want to do so. Since, like the questioners, I fully agree with the importance of a careful election, I would like to explain briefly the main conditions that must be met. Once again, that is in line with the questions put by Mrs Koşer Kaya, among others. Firstly, the secret nature of the vote must be sufficiently guaranteed. Secondly, the transparency, accountability and integrity of the election must also be sufficiently guaranteed. Thirdly, the vote must be sufficiently open to the electorate. Fourthly, there must be sufficient guarantees that each electorate can vote only one vote per election. As security and voting secrecy are so important, the AMvB will be co-developed on the basis of the specifications drawn up by the expert group. Mrs Koşer Kaya also referred to this. It pays close attention to the security profile required for a so-called common criteria certification. In this respect, security is high on the agenda for everyone who is working on it, and fortunately also in this Chamber, not least because of previous experience. Now this is not explicitly about voting machines, as was the case up to 2007, but it would be unwise not to apply the lessons we learned at that time to this proposal as well. Speaking of security, fraud is never far away. This has also happened before, namely in 2006 in Landerd. Mrs Oosenbrug asked for that. The question was whether the fraud that was committed at the time could also arise in the experiments that I would now make possible with this proposal. The answer to this is explicitly "no'. The physical note with your voice is in your hands. Before you do that in the ballot box, you can check to see if you voted what you wanted to vote. So it's no different than what we're used to now, were it not that the form is a lot smaller, which is also good for the trees. Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Klein have drawn attention to people with visual or other disabilities. I can reassure both of you in that area. The experiments will focus on whether there are any insurmountable barriers for people with disabilities. Accessibility of the methodology will also be very comprehensively taken into account in the evaluation. After all, it is very important for everyone to be able to vote using voting secrecy. Mr Klein asked whether there was any experience of electronic voting in other countries. I refer to three countries: Belgium, Germany and the United States. They all have extensive experience of electronic voting and counting. I should like to touch on the subject that Mr Bosma has just asked: the cost of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u41	I have a question about the previous point. I thank Mr Taverne for the answer, but what do we learn from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u42	We learn from that that electronic voting and counting is quite possible. Let's take Germany. There goes everything gründlich. This applies to voting but also to ensuring that the voting process is safe. Even in Germany, it is used. I recognise that it is sometimes used in other technologies, for example in diesel cars, and I do not have the impression that this is also happening with the voting process. I find that trustworthy. In the United States it is also used in important places and with good experience. It is also used in Belgium. These are countries that are close to us in terms of distance or culture, and they have had good experiences with them. In fact, Belgium uses devices of Dutch make focused on the requirements laid down in the Belgian electoral law. Wouldn't a country that organised the Startup Fest this week and wants to lead the way for innovation and the use of technology not be able to simplify the elections with a simple vote printer and counter? That should be our honor too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u43	You are now going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u44	...the cost. Mr Bosma and Mrs Oosenbrug asked questions about the expected cost of implementing this proposal. First of all, I must say that the real costs will depend on the number of polling stations deployed. During the last elections to the House of Representatives in September 2012, there were 9.197 polling stations in the Netherlands. If we take 10% of that number for the experiment, we are talking about a small 1,000 desks. In this number, it amounts to about 20 million for a five-year experimental period. With more polling stations the price increases and with fewer polling stations the price is likely to be a little lower. The number of municipalities participating and the number of experiments also make up for the final cost. On the basis of these principles, this is an amount that should not be considered unreasonable. Most of the costs are in the purchase of the equipment. I assume that the equipment will initially be more expensive in an experiment than when the equipment is used throughout the Netherlands, because of the development costs. Those costs are needed to make the right devices. In a successful implementation throughout the Netherlands, the manufacturer will say that the development costs have already been incurred and that will reduce the price per piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u45	If we apply it everywhere in the Netherlands, it costs 200 million euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u46	I've heard that amount, too. In recent years, this type of money has been mentioned, which began with the excellent report by the Van Beek Committee. To some extent this is a very rough estimate. As long as these devices are not developed for the Dutch market, we simply do not know what they will cost. Honestly, I find 200 million a lot of money. I just have to see if it's gonna work out. We must not allow the debate on the costs of introduction throughout the Netherlands to pollute the debate on this time and scale limited experiment. The experiment will eventually help to make a real assessment of the costs of roll-out across the Netherlands. We also need the experiment from the point of view of a realistic cost assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u47	I am referring to Mr Taverne's own analysis. He says an experiment costs 10% of the polling stations 20 million. I'm not a math miracle, but 100% seems to me to be 200 million. The manufacturers are listening, so it will not be any less. If we're going to experiment, we're going to do it for a purpose. That goal is the introduction of those machines. The price tag is then around 200 million, it can be more but it can also be less. I do think that we should take this into account in our consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u48	Absolutely. In addition, it has been noted that in the initial phase, if you have them developed as an experiment with a limited number of devices, they are each more expensive than if you order them for the whole of the Netherlands. In addition, it will also lead to cost savings. So far, the UNG has been strongly in favour of the use of electronic means in the voting process because it will result in significant cost savings. I'm not making that up myself, the VNG does. You can go with fewer people in the polling room and that's just the easiest way to make money. By the way, it is the municipalities that organise the elections. If they have a financial advantage when using electronic voting equipment, I can also imagine that there will be a conversation between my left neighbour and the VNG about how these costs are shared. Again, it is far too early to give a definitive figure of what it will cost for the whole of the Netherlands if we do not even know what these things cost for an experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u49	Too soon? We're allowed to know how much it costs, aren't we? Our walking Zakjapanner, Mr Van Raak, comes out at 200 million. I remember a hearing in which Mr Taverne was also present, with a figure of 250 million. That is in real money 600 million guilders and more than the annual budget of the AIVD, to name but one cross street. That's a lot of money. Mr Taverne tells us that it can save costs because fewer people are needed, but I think you need more people. These things need to be guarded, there must be good programmers present and there must be an entire help desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u50	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u51	If they're being transported, it's as if a gold stock is being moved, it's not ten laptops you get at the Media Market. I think it's weird that this isn't calculated in the whole plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u52	On my thumb, it's ten referendums. The concept of the VVD is known, but it's just what you compare it to. My point is that only when you know what equipment is needed and developed for the Netherlands can you make a real estimate of the costs. That's where this experiment helps. In fact, without the experiment, the calculations are a little out of the air. I would like to make an assessment of this on the basis of the information available to you all, but I would like to see what it really costs. We don't know until after an experiment and the amount I'm taking out for the experiment, I just mentioned you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you. Finalizing Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u54	"I would like to see what it really costs," says Mr Taverne. I would like to, but it is not my own initiative proposal. It's supposed to just wear off, right? In a hearing at which you yourself were present, an amount of EUR 250 million was mentioned. I remember the time when the VVD allowed itself to handle taxpayers' money prudently, but now a plan is being presented that doesn't even have a price tag. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u55	I think I just mentioned an amount. I do not share the fact that there is no price tag with Mr Bosma. The VVD is certainly very economical in the accounting and so the Chamber knows the VVD. Once again, I believe that the longer-term savings have not been included in the amounts mentioned. My point is that this experiment should ultimately produce the data, not just or and how it can be safe in practice and what it will actually cost. I mentioned the cost assessment for the experiment. I think we need this experiment to better assess how it will work in practice. That's why I think we should take that money out. Democracy is not only not for scared people, as Frits Bolkestein said, it is not for free either. Other modernisations to which this Chamber is broadly in favour also cost money. I think that this experiment will ultimately shed some light on this issue as well. Otherwise it's a little ins blue hinein gambling. It is a very important subject. It is about improving our democratic process by ensuring that the results of elections are precise and accurate, much more precise and accurate than they are today. I think it's worth that price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u56	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mrs Oosenbrug spoke specifically about the thresholds for less well-to-do municipalities in terms of costs. I can very well imagine that if the UNG is involved in discussions on the cost of the costs, this will also be addressed. That impression has been reinforced after the contact I had with the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs on this subject. Finally, I come to the fourth part of my reply. A number of opinions have been issued on the legislative proposal, whether or not requested. A number have already been mentioned. It is, of course, the opinion of the Council of State. In addition, there are advice from the VNG, the Election Council and the aforementioned Dutch Association for Civil Affairs. I shall begin with the opinion of the Council of State. The proposal was submitted to the Council of State for its opinion in 2012, as appropriate. The Council of State was very critical. That's what I expected. That proposal also saw the reintroduction of voting machines, i.e. computers of the type we had up to 2007 or a variant of them. Now we all think that at least we shouldn't. On the advice of the Council of State and following the opinion of the Van Beek Commission, I have changed and tightened my proposal, precisely to prevent that type of computer, which carries the risks referred to by Mrs Fokke and Mrs Koşer Kaya, from falling within the scope of this experiment. Where electronic voting by means of a voice printer and a voice counter can count on warm interest, I do not think that is true of the technique we have said goodbye to. On the advice of the Council of State, the proposal also includes the requirement for the consent of the municipal councils to determine which municipalities can be experimented in. That was a very justified point made by the Council of State and I accepted it without hesitation. After all, it is the municipalities that will have to facilitate the experiments and be responsible for the organisation of elections. In doing so, I have also made clear to Mr Amhaouch in his speech the guarantees which the electoral process should comply with, which were explicitly included in the Corthals Altes Committee, and I have looked into the explanatory memorandum to this proposal. To be precise, I did so in paragraph 5 of the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u58	I'll take a look at the time, Mr. Amhaouch. We have another debate after this. Is it an idea to let the initiator finish the block, or is it very urgent? Let us let the initiator finish, then the final questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u59	At my request, the UNG also gave its opinion on my proposal. Mr Amhaouch pointed out this in his first term. I have now sent the opinion to the Chamber. The VNG has delivered its opinion not only recently, but also in 2013. I must honestly admit that I was somewhat surprised by the latest advice given by the VNG, also in view of the advice given by the Association in 2013. The response given by the VNG in two instances seems to be based on two thoughts. On the one hand, the Association endorses the advice also issued by the Election Council. It talks positively about enabling experiments to be carried out by electronic voting. On the other hand, the VNG states that there is uncertainty about the use of voting machines, the costs and the relatively unique functioning of the proposed method. In the answer I have already mentioned both the working method and the costs. The VNG also says something about this. I do not think that the reservations expressed by the UNG in the last opinion are necessary. It also seems to be based here and there on what might be a misunderstanding about the use of the type of technique made possible by this proposal. This law allows experiments under strict and explicit rules. A combination of voice printing and counting is used. I have already said that this method is already being used in other countries. Despite the reserved response of the UNG a few weeks ago, I do not think the UNG will oppose this. I also bear in mind the enthusiastic response of the UNG from a few years earlier and I also note the conclusion of the UNG in the most recent opinion. It states that one joins the advice of the Election Council. In that opinion of the Election Council, a number of questions are asked, but the Board nevertheless advises to experiment with electronic voting and counting. I therefore believe that the UNG will not oppose this and may ultimately benefit from it. The Election Council has also given its opinion; I mentioned that. We all know that advice. It contains a number of very good comments, which have been rightly made. There are also critical questions in the opinion. That's a good thing, because I expect the Election Board to ask such questions. However, the Election Board ultimately writes in the opinion: it is a good idea, within the framework of the legislative proposal, to experiment with the use of electronic tools. Among other things, the Election Council has made a comment about care over speed. I have incorporated this in the note on the basis of the report. Finally, the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs (NVVB) has also issued an opinion on this proposal, at my request. The NVVB writes to be very happy with this step. It is sunny and one suspects that a large number of municipalities would like to participate. So I'm very satisfied with that. I'll come to a conclusion. With this proposal, we will ensure that more people can vote independently, that fewer mistakes are made in voting and that fewer mistakes are made in counting the votes. This makes the result more accurate and democratic, because more votes are counted. That's important. Counting errors will be a thing of the past. In the end, this will lead to every vote for the candidate for whom it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'm gonna stick to the last block. The applicant has drawn up an initiative proposal and submitted it to the Council of State. The Council gave its opinion on its own initiative proposal. The complainant subsequently concludes that a number of things need to be changed. Almost the whole bill goes upside down. This is about the Tickle Act. Care must be taken in this regard. It is therefore frankly surprising to the CDA Group that the initiator has not returned the proposal in its present form to the Council of State for an opinion. In fact, the initiator does the same for the opinions of the other organisations. He is surprised at the advice of the VNG. He also ignored a number of aspects of the Opinion of the Election Board. How does that rhyme with the need for care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u61	That rhymes well with the need for care. As I said, I have responded to all the points raised by the Council of State. I followed the points, too. I got Internet votes out of the bill, also to the grief of Mrs Koşer Kaya. Fortunately, because that is perhaps another subject we are going to discuss. In other words, I have made the opinion of the Council of State very difficult. I have chosen not to consult the Council of State again for the reason I have given. I did send the proposal to the Election Board in its new form for advice. It seems to me to be quite capable of giving an opinion on this. This has finally become a positive opinion with a number of comments and questions. The NVVB also welcomes this new proposal. I also referred the proposal back to the VNG, as Mr Amhaouch rightly pointed out. Luckily with eventually you have to read it correctly.The conclusion that the Election Council is being followed, which is for this experiment. It remains that I could have sent it back to the Council of State. I am convinced that if the Council of State is consistent, then the Council of State is that it had come up with an opinion that had established that I had met the Council of State on all the previous points of the Council of State. Then who am I to help another High College of State get extra work? They are busy enough, for example, with the division of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you. This has put an end to the response of the initiator. I give the floor to the Minister in his role as advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has previously said that it is in principle positive about the idea of electronic voting when it is technically, financially and legally feasible. For this reason, three years ago, I set up the Van Beek Commission to answer the question of how this could possibly be implemented. The committee's conclusion is to this day: the only way this could be done is through a system in which an electronic printer is used, after which the printed voice is deposited in an electronic counter, via the ballot box. There were some open questions and I asked the committee for a new opinion. In this new opinion, the Committee has already concluded that it will be a complex matter, which will take much more time than was estimated in the first opinion. I then set up, on the advice of the Van Beek Commission, an expert group which gave some of the opinions I am now following. We are talking about the initiative legislative proposal. I'll be on the cabinet's advice in a minute. Let me make two brief comments in connection with the wide-ranging debate I have just been able to attend. One is just for the record that it is not true that the computers were connected during the 2007 experiment. These were all standalone computers at the time. The second is that in Germany experience has indeed been gained with electronic voting in a number of electoral circles, but this has now been prohibited by the Constitutional Court. The state of affairs there is that it is no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u64	That's interesting information about Germany. Some of my colleagues are also falling off their seats. Does the Minister know why that happened? It's quite a far-reaching statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u65	I have not prepared myself extensively for a discussion on Germany. I have just been informed by my staff and asked about it. This was prohibited by the Constitutional Court in 2008 after Berlin computer clubs had demonstrated that those computers could be hacked. Of course this concerned the technique used there, but since then the voting in Germany has not been done electronically. That's my information right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u66	I had prepared myself reasonably; I had looked at the way the bank of Bangladesh was lifted and today I heard that the bank of Ecuador had been hacked in the same way. And now this. So these voting machines aren't safe at all. The Minister brings this information sec, which is also his job, but it seems to me to be killing for Mr Taverne's initiative. If even the German Constitutional Court says that these things cannot be trusted, what are we to think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u67	In all fairness, I do not know whether the technique on which the court ruled is the same as that proposed by the Van Beek Committee. But when the argument is used in reverse in our neighbouring country, it is right to make this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u68	This is too easy for me. Either the Minister responds to Mr Taverne's initiative bill or he will do his homework and come back with information on exactly what happened in Germany, so that we can assess it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u69	I'll give you all the relevant information. On the basis of the limited experience gained there, the German court decided to put an end to this. This does not mean in advance that a ruling has also been made on the technique recommended by the Van Beek Committee. It's okay to keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u70	I'm suddenly thinking of tweets being sent into the world very unhappy. This is very important. If this is true, then Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal can go into the trash. I want a clear answer on exactly what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mrs Koşer Kaya's conclusion is not correct. The judgment of the German Constitutional Court on the way in which the computer was used does not in advance give an opinion on the technique advised by the Van Beek Committee to the Dutch Government as an opportunity to implement it. I just want to take away the impression of the contrary, namely that it would be ironing-and-screw, because it would not be any different in the neighbouring countries. Hence my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u72	It is very good that the Minister shares relevant information with the Chamber. It is also his role tonight to inform the Chamber optimally. But what is the relevance of this information when the Minister says that he does not know whether the technique used in Germany is the same technique as the technique proposed by the Van Beek Committee and proposed by the initiator in his legislative proposal? If it is not the same, then what is the relevance of this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'm not the one who brought relevance to that. For a moment, the impression seemed to arise as if in our neighbouring countries, Belgium and Germany, the use of the computer for voting was a standard procedure. In this context, it is good to know that nine years ago the German Constitutional Court banned electronic voting. How hard the Chamber finds that weighs, I leave it in the middle. It's not decisive for me. That will also be apparent when I give the government's opinion on the initiative proposal in a moment's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u74	I note that the Minister states that he is not sure if we are talking about the same thing. In fact, he says: it is a different technique from what is proposed in the own-initiative proposal. I conclude from this that this information to the Chamber is not relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u75	This discussion arises from my question to the initiator of what he learns from what happened abroad. He was right to point out the German gründlichkeit with regard to technology and everything related to it. If I have seen it correctly, the ruling of the German Constitutional Court in 2009 following the 2005 elections on the basis of a Dutch manufacturer's equipment, in particular with regard to the procedures under the electoral rules and not so much with regard to the technical implications and whether electronic voting is technically possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u76	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u77	One of the important guarantees, for example, based on the report of the Korthals Altes Committee is that voting secrecy. That is, of course, an important subject to discuss here, and I think the initiator has done so. I do not understand the relevance of the Minister's remark in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u78	That's the same question, so let me give you the same answer. The only thing I wanted to do with this preliminary remark is to take away the impression that the Netherlands is incredibly behind because the neighbouring countries have electronic voting. Furthermore, it is our own judgment. I will be getting my opinion on this initiative proposal in a moment. This will show that I do not consider that opinion of the German Constitutional Court to be decisive for the assessment of the legislative initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u79	Of course that is relevant information, but the moment this information comes is very unfortunate. That is why we have initially indicated, both to the initiator and to the minister, that we would like to move together on such a delicate subject as the Tickets Act. So we are very unhappy with what is being shown here today. Can the Minister reflect on how carefully we should deal with this issue when one dose of information is brought forward from the Ministry and the other time from the initiator?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u80	I was prevented at the first term of the Chamber. My colleague Mr Blok has listened in box K. If I read it correctly, I was accused by a number of Members of Parliament that we have been very careful. I would like to point out that the Van Beek Committee has already included in its first report an extensive international comparison, which has also been shared and discussed with the Chamber. On this point, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u81	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u82	Then I come to the cabinet's opinion on the initiative legislative proposal. As discussed, this is ahead of the decision-making process on whether or not to conduct an experiment with electronic voting in the polling office. Before I come to the opinion, let me say that I cannot yet say whether this, if an experiment were to be chosen with electronic voting, would provide sufficient legal basis. This is because it is not yet possible to guarantee 100% of what procedures and provisions will be needed and whether a legal basis is needed. This could mean that, if this bill were to be adopted and if the cabinet were to decide to proceed to an experiment with electronic voting, the bill would still have to be amended in order to bring it into line. However, this is not the time to give an opinion on this. Let me start with the conclusion. Then I would like to make a number of important comments. Citing from the cabinet's conclusion, the opinion is that there is in principle no objection to this initiative proposal. In the terminology used here, this means that the judgment is left to the Court. However, I have a number of important comments to make. First of all, it clearly does not mean that it will be decided that the experiment will take place. I've already informed the Chamber that I'm having a market survey done and that we need to get a look at the costs. In the debate, we have just had a debate on amounts of money. I would like to say two things about this. Firstly, an experiment on a limited scale is obviously cheaper than the introduction of electronic voting across the country. For the latter, the Van Beek Committee estimated that it would be an investment of between 150 and 250 million, which would have to be repeated every eight years, and 16 million structuralally. Maybe the market exploration will make it cheaper. In any case, an experiment will be smaller, but, as Mr Taverne has rightly said, development costs must be made complete. After all, there is no point in experimenting with a device that is fundamentally different from the equipment that you would eventually want to use. Secondly, of course, doing an experiment does not make sense if you do not have the perspective that, if the experiment succeeds, you are also able and willing to cover the full cost. We must therefore have these costs in mind when a decision can be made whether or not to experiment. There's no cover for it. It has just been noted that there may be a possibility of sharing costs. The government's position has always been "" and that is what it is now "that the costs of the electoral process are borne by the municipalities." That is the case now. Because this cabinet is there for a long time, the municipalities have an advantage, because they need to hold fewer Lower House elections than when a Chamber is dissolved every two years. So the benefits are there, but so are the costs. The government's view is that these costs should in principle be borne by the municipalities. The willingness to do so is not great on that side at the moment, which is understandable given all the circumstances. The next point is that there must be support. I quote from the letter from the UNG of 10 May this year, which states that, in the opinion of the UNG, the level of support is too low and the costs do not outweigh the speed gains. At the moment, therefore, there does not seem to be a great deal of support for this. However, I have already written to the Chamber earlier that I am prepared to talk to the VNG to get a closer look at this and to see if it might be more nuanced than it seems in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u83	The Minister says: the bill may need to be amended; no coverage; the costs are not fully covered and there is no basis for support. Then I hear the Minister say: Judge Chamber. I actually hear him saying quite clearly that this bill is simply not a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u84	I started with my conclusion: we might conclude immediately after the market exploration and after an intrusive discussion with the VNG that the experiment fits within the frameworks outlined in the initiative legislative proposal. I am not sure whether it fits in fully or whether there is any need for adjustments. In that sense, the bill is early, but not necessarily too early. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber in the end. Let me make just one comment, namely that the Election Board said in its recent opinion that doing experiments in the autumn of 2017 is not real in its view. I refer to the Election Board's letter on the route in that direction. These are indeed a number of comments. I'd like to limit myself to that. I have another question from Mrs Koşer Kaya from the first term about electronic voting via the Internet. I refer to the answer I gave to the Chamber earlier: we will do a test. The difference between a test and an experiment, I say for the non-lovers of the subject, is as follows. A test, as we said in The Hague, is for the one-way and an experiment for the ultrasound. You keep a test parallel to an ordinary election, but an experiment is really part of the ordinary election. We would like to do a test on this in the autumn. I believe that the other questions that have been put to me have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u85	I was thinking about Wim Sonneveld and his sketch with those sons-in-law...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u86	They had to join us for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u87	They didn't just have to eat along; "I praised them straight into the grave." In my view, the Minister, with all his bombs he has thrown into the Chamber, has simply praised the German element, the price element, the technical uncertainty, the municipalities that do not want to pay this bill. Anyway, it's gotta be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u88	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u89	On Tuesday evening, we were allowed to talk about a subject that has to do with this: the ballots. The Minister wants to introduce another ballot, in A4 format; simplified, I will say. Is there a relationship between the two proposals? Suppose we chose the ballot the minister presented on Tuesday. Don't we need all that computer experimenting anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u90	Two things. I did not intend to go into the international comparison, but because of the first-term discussion it seemed useful to take away the impression that this is the practice in both neighbouring countries, Germany and Belgium. As far as the new ballot is concerned, this is the following. Let me begin by saying that in its letter of 10 May, the VNG states that it is in favour of a new ballot. Perhaps that is a pitch for those who are still thinking about how to vote on that proposal. That experiment is about the manual voting and counting of the note. I did add on Tuesday that this bill could also be counted electronically in the long term. This could save time. That is not part of the experiment we discussed two days ago. Maybe we can do it in the long run.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u91	So the relationship between the two proposals is theoretical?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u92	We discussed this relationship in greater detail on Tuesday. Suppose this bill is passed and an experiment is chosen on the basis of this legal basis. Still, you're gonna need a paper backup in case the machinery doesn't work. Still, it would be useful to see if this is an optimal ballot, or if we can find a better one with the experiment. But that's a different subject from what's going on tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u93	I was also a little surprised by the Minister's advice. He says, "I'll leave it to the room if we buy a car, but there's no car, we don't have a driver's license, and we don't have any money. So I thought it was rather a double opinion. One of the reasons why Mr Taverne is proposing the law is to give the developers of these machines comfort and certainty that we are going to work with them and that they can therefore develop those devices. Does the Minister agree with me that this is a bit the reverse world and even a little unliberal? He's doing a market exploration now. Does he agree with me that we should wait for the technology to develop and then look at whether we are going to experiment and, if so, what laws and rules are needed for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u94	I can imagine that Mr Taverne believes that by putting the legal basis in place, he can give the market players a little support in order to think harder about and work towards development. However, in the end it will have to be decided whether such an experiment is being carried out before it is really taken seriously. I have previously promised the Chamber that the cabinet will adopt a position on this before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u95	That is the end of the first term. I see that Members need a second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a word of thanks to the initiator for the comprehensive and detailed answer to the many questions that have been asked in the first term and which have been asked by me. In my first term, I spoke about the chicken or egg problem that we also exchanged during many interruptions this evening, because it is indeed a chicken or egg story. It is difficult to expect the market to develop a product if it is not yet legally possible. I fully understand that. I think examples from the past show that too. We used to have a passport. That was one of those black books, one of those black rags. Then, as a government, we made legal demands because we felt that these passports should be made more secure in terms of quality. By now, all kinds of biometric characteristics can be incorporated into such a passport. In my view, we regulate this by law and then the market starts to develop the product. That seems to me to be a very logical order. More importantly, here's the thing. If you do it the other way around, you're gonna go with a market player, that market player is gonna develop something, and you're gonna build the law around it. I guess that's when the market player gets to work. I think you'll rule out the rest of the market. Can the Minister confirm that you can get into trouble with European procurement rules if you go along that route? I don't think that order is possible at all. That is why, in my first term, I congratulated Mr Taverne for trying to solve this chicken or egg problem and opting to present an initiative proposal now to at least create the legal basis or the legal possibility, so that business can also get started. One question from me has not been answered, namely the question of scope. I think that question can help in this discussion. I asked whether this initiative law means that besides the voting printer and the voting counter, there can be other forms of experimentation. Could companies possibly think "you know what; I'm going to develop a computer"? The VVD thinks it's good to focus and now to focus on the voting printer and the voting counter. I would like to receive an answer from the initiator. It is right that financial questions should be asked. I, too, have asked for that. It is also right that the Minister should indicate that, of course, it should be so that the finances are settled and there is financial coverage. I agree with the Minister's advice, but I also understand that the initiator cannot indicate exactly what the amount is. He estimates it's 20 million. I think this fits in with a number of other things that we've seen here recently. I am not talking so much about the Open Government Act, where there was no financial coverage and no explanation. In that case, there was a report a few years earlier stating that an information register in the Open Government Act costs about 50 or perhaps 100 million. Perhaps a more important comparison is, and I am also looking at the Minister, the one with the route of Mr Van Raak's initiative proposal for the House for whistleblowers. There was also a lack of financial coverage. On this point, the Minister in the Lower House has rightly expressed the view that this is not really possible. In the First Chamber, however, the Minister has offered to look together with the initiator of the House for whistleblowers to see how this financial coverage can be arranged. I would also like to ask the Minister and the initiator whether they are prepared to look together at how to regulate financial coverage when the initiative proposal is adopted. I think part of that can be done from the Empire. I agree with the Minister when he says that elections are funded by municipalities. For example, we have had a referendum recently. In addition, the Empire has increased the costs for the municipalities. It is precisely because this is an experiment for a period of five years that I can imagine that we will also look together at how we can finance this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the initiator for his detailed answer to the first-term questions. The advantages have been outlined: counting errors will be a thing of the past, the voting process will improve and we can make disabled people vote better. That seems to me to be the advantages, as they have been put forward. The wish may be the father of the thought. In principle, I also see the advantages of electronic voting. I'm not against that either. In the words of the initiator, however, it remains a lot of "wet fingering." It is unclear how the technical implementation will be. There's a lot of questions. Even experience abroad in relation to national legislation, as in Germany, gives rise to uncertainty. That's just what it turned out to be. So we should test in practice. I think that's fine. But why now an experiment where we're going for the elevator? This is happening to one group of voters, who have to participate involuntarily, for all intents and purposes. The voters in the municipality cannot say: well, I am not going to participate in this; let me forget this. No: if they want to be able to vote, they must participate. On the other hand, I think it would be wise to gain experience in practice, also in order to make progress in relation to market players and to make innovations possible. That's why I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of experiments on electronic voting and the use of a new ballot is currently under consideration;]] [[Whereas the technical implementation of electronic voting and counting is still very unclear at present;]] [[Whereas both planned experiments also mean that a limited group of electoral candidates will be used involuntarily as guinea pigs in the exercise of their right to vote;]] [[Whereas this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VNG, to develop pilot positions which will then be placed next to the regular voting booths in future elections in agreed municipalities, so that voters there can vote on a voluntary basis in both regular and pilot manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33354-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Tavern for his initiative, the effort and the hard work. Sometimes the Chamber is too late and technological developments have overtaken us. Maybe it's possible that sometimes we're a little early. Then we're just a little too ahead of technological developments. I congratulated Mr Taverne on the fact that he wanted to make an experiment possible by law, with which politics did its homework. However, I still run into the question of whether, when the experiment starts, we should establish a number of cases through a lower form of legislation, a General Measure of Governance, while it is common practice to do so by law, as the Election Council says. One of the reasons why Mr Taverne is submitting the law is to facilitate the market, to give people who make these machines certainty that they will be used. I don't know if that's right. I think it should be the other way around. Let the technique continue. We had voting machines once. Those weren't good, and we stopped doing that. See if there are any initiatives to develop, in this case, better polling counters. See if we want to experiment with this and then see which legislation is needed for this. That seems to me to be a better order. I also have a bit of a problem with the idea that we would now adopt a law for an experiment aimed at introducing something that might cost a lot of money: 200 million. I don't want to say it's an uncovered check, because it's not. We can always say no to an experiment. But I would also prefer to look first at what kind of machines are coming and what their cost is. Once again, I would like to thank Mr Taverne for the initiative, but I started my first contribution by asking whether it is not premature. During the debate, I increasingly felt that it was somewhat untimely. I am, of course, waiting for Mr Taverne's words, but I fear that this position will be maintained for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr. Chairman. Right of choice is extremely important. Therefore, care must be taken first. When I look back at this debate, that is actually a problem. As Mr Van Raak said, it is immeasurable, because technological progress is not yet ready for us to do all this safely. The Minister says that we may even have to amend the bill, that it is not financially substantiated, that there is no cover for it and that there is no support for it. The points raised by the Minister are, after all, very important. I immediately think that the opinion given to the Chamber is a bit strange, but we are happy to take these points into account in our consideration. I have just underlined the importance of voting rights. The frameworks should therefore be laid down in a law. It is precisely the right to vote, the instrument of democracy, that must be properly worked out in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr Bosma has waived a second-term contribution. That gives the floor to Mrs Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u101	Madam President. I am only the simple replacement of my colleague Mrs Oosenbrug tonight. It has already clearly stated in the first period that the PvdA is in favour of electronic voting, provided it can be reliable, without excessive costs and safe. The electoral process must be transparent, reliable and accessible. Let there be no doubt about that. She said something else, too, and that's kind of sticking out for me tonight. She talked about the VVD and said: (...) the industry wants to know where it is and that innovation (...) must not stop. Look, that's how we remember the VVD: the industry first. But is this the right guidance? That is actually exactly what my colleague Van Raak said. For me, that's kind of sticky too. One half of the room can talk about the chicken tonight and the other half about the egg, but I also wonder if it is not a little early, however good the bill may be. You can blame a ministry for being very slow and coming up with a bill itself, but haven't we learned any lessons from the fact that we once had a voting machine that didn't work? Is it not thanks to the lesson of the Van Beek Committee and all the follow-up investigations that are still going on that the ministry is saying: if we do it already, then we want to do it very well? That is exactly what the Labour Party wants. She really wants to vote electronically. Just by voting in that way, you can involve more people in the process. It just has to be in a good way. I say quite honestly that in the eyes of the Labour Party there is a lot going on when she looks at this bill. It's nice to say afterwards: "industry, do something," but we want voting machines that work in advance and with which you can't cheat. Let me put it this way. I'm not an aviation spokesman, but right now I don't think it's gonna fly. I hope that Mr Taverne will convince me in the second term that this is going to fly. At the moment, the PvdA Group is right in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr. Chairman. In this country, in the Netherlands, we can also do a lot with technology. Yeah, it went wrong ten years ago. We will, of course, have to take that back every time in the context of care. We are indeed in the week of Dutch technology. We're on the Startup Fest week. That means that we are capable of a great deal. I therefore congratulate the initiator for putting electronic voting back on the agenda after 10 years. I also congratulate the Minister and express my appreciation for his care. Things are running in parallel here, though. Carefulness is very much in the interests of this. The CDA Group would like to bring together care and urgency by means of the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the two proposals for amending the electoral process pending before the Chamber, namely the Amendment of the Temporary Experiment Law on Voting Bills and the central inclusion of voting rights for experiments involving a new ballot note in the polling room (34288) and the proposal of the Taverne Law on a temporary experimental scheme for the use of electronic devices in elections (33354), show insufficient coherence and direction;]] [[Whereas proposals to amend the electoral process should comply with the safeguards laid down by the Advisory Committee on Election Procedure, strengthen the link between voters and elected representatives, examine the possibilities of electronic voting and counting, and provide insight into the costs involved;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals for amending the electoral process, consisting of legislative proposals and associated General Management Measures, which will make voting and counting more efficient, increase accessibility and elect a person, and inform the Chamber of progress and planning before 1 September 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33354-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u103	This was a lot, so I had to write along quickly. Now that I hear what Mr Amhaouch is asking of the government, I feel that his motion goes much further than Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u104	We all want to do experiments. That is the objective. If we do that then we will go for a law that is well secured, as Mr Koşer Kaya also says. Then we're gonna get a good record of the voting by law. We are going to properly record the technique and the requirements of the technique at AMvB, with or without the front suspension procedure. We want the Ministry to take the initiative so that that care is guaranteed. This is about the Kieswet, which is the core task of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u105	This ended the second term of office. The initiator has indicated that he needs ten minutes, so I shall suspend the sitting for a maximum of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u106	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Court for the second-term questions and comments. Thank you also to the Minister in his capacity as advisor, for his support in this debate, which proved to be very necessary, useful and helpful. It also actually shows that you should never answer non-asked questions, as I've always learned. That only leads to confusion. I should like to begin by commenting briefly on the confusion that may have arisen about the answers to Mr Klein's questions on the international situation. I repeat that in Belgium, the United States, Germany, but also in India, Brazil, Estonia, Venezuela, Argentina, Bulgaria, the Philippines, Norway, Russia, Scotland, Switzerland and Mexico, electronic voting is used. There are several forms. The form used depends on national electoral laws. Manufacturers will adapt to this. There is no country that has made a law based on a manufacturer's product, and then allows it in the electoral process. Because every electoral law is different and sets specific requirements, manufacturers of these devices adapt to it. Sometimes that will all be in one device, as we had until 2007. Sometimes it's just a voter. Sometimes it's both. So many countries, so many different flavors. In Germany there was indeed an electronic vote. I would like to think a little bit more about this, because of the confusion. Until 2009, five Länder in Germany voted with systems integrating electronic voting and counting. This integration encountered a possible objection of principle, which was even referred to the Constitutional Court in Germany, as has also been pointed out. After careful consideration, the verdict of the second Senate, after the College, which I immediately translate, was that the use of electronic voting systems is a prerequisite that the essential steps in voting and voting can be verified by citizens reliably and without any particular expertise, is not hindered by the legislator's ability to use electronic provisions during elections when the constitutional requirement for reliable checking of accuracy is guaranteed, and the voter should be able to verify himself without further computer-technical knowledge whether his vote has been laid down as a basis for voting, or in any case can be used as a basis for recounting, and that that this basis has not been unwelcomely manipulated. Experience in Germany points in the opposite direction to integration. He endorses what the Van Beek Committee has recommended, namely the voting method in which paper is leading, with a voice printer and a vote counter. I find it annoying that the unwelcome impression may have been that Germany's example shows the opposite. Let that be said. I'm gonna walk away from the other questions I've asked. Mr Veldman asked whether, on the basis of the current proposal I have made, other experiments are possible and admissible. They're not. It is precisely from the point of view of care, certainty and control of what can be experimented with that can only be done within the framework set out in my legislative proposal, on the basis of the eight conditions defined by the Corthals Altes Committee and as explained by me earlier to the Chamber. Mr Veldman also asks me, in view of the costs, whether I would be prepared to think together with the Minister of the Interior about how we could put that into the barrel and how to finance it. This can be done in accordance with the way in which it happened earlier at the House for whistleblowers, where it did not encounter any problems at the time. I say to Mr Veldman that of course I am very happy to be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u108	I would like to make a comment on this. It was the House for whistleblowers for 3 million euros, not 200 million euros. That's more than a small difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u109	It is indeed a different order of magnitude, but I do not think it is entirely fair that Mr Van Raak should now return to the 200 million, when we have talked about the fact that this is an experiment, limited in time and size, and therefore with limited costs. Even the minister said it helps to know what it's going to cost in the experiment to make a real assessment of what it costs down the road. So far, we have not taken into account a possible financial reduction that we are going to experience by fewer voters. Again, it has always been the VNG who has hammered on this. She doesn't do that because she thinks it's gonna cost her extra money. I don't really want to start that discussion again. I assume the house for whistleblowers was $3 million. Otherwise it will be a batch of amounts that are difficult to compare. I will continue my speech. Mr Klein asked why it should now be put into an experiment form. I remember a debate earlier this week on another ballot. This discussion about the difference between a test and an experiment was also widely discussed. My position is and remains that precisely in order to operate carefully, an experiment is necessary in order to arrive at a truly well-founded conclusion whether and in what way voting in the Netherlands can ultimately be implemented responsibly using electronic devices. Mr Van Raak pointed out that this proposal was an advance on technology. It would almost look like a chicken or egg discussion, regardless of technique and legislation. I accept that for notification by Mr Van Raak. I do not share that view. My position is that only by breaking the deadlock, where now something is not legally allowed in the electoral process in the Netherlands, you do not contribute to the emergence from the market of equipment suitable for the Dutch situation that meets the Dutch due diligence requirements. This is quite apart from the fact that this is probably not even allowed from the point of view of tendering. I thought that, quite frankly, was a justified remark by Mr Veldman. It would, of course, be very crazy to say of a device: that is good, we are going to make sure that it is allowed in the Netherlands. Then this house would be on its back legs. And, frankly, rightly so. Mrs Koşer Kaya stressed once again that care should be paramount. I fully agree with her. I hope I have been able to convince her that, precisely from a careful point of view, it is of the utmost importance that we have an experimental law. Exactly past experiences have shown that you should not roll this out all over the country at once. Without the possibility of experimenting for a while, we will not find out what the best method is. In fact, even if the Minister comes up with his market demand at the end of this year, it will be of relatively high theoretical content. Then it will still have to be decided whether this Chamber will give its blessing to its introduction. In the light of Mrs Koşer Kaya's arguments, she believes that this will never be possible under an experimental law. That must always be done in a formal law. That seems complicated to me. Again, the practice is that in the current selection process with paper and pencil much is regulated at AMvB, if it is already settled. There is also extensive work on AMvBs in the existing experimental laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u110	Could Mr Taverne respond to the Minister's remark that his bill may need to be amended after the consultation has taken place? How does he appreciate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u111	Are you referring to the Minister's proposal on the ballot?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u112	The Minister just advised that your bill might need to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u113	I must therefore remain guilty of the question as to which parts of the matter should be dealt with. It is right that there should be a paper trail if this law allows us to vote with electronic means. I am not convinced that this should be done with the current ballot, which is suboptimal on a number of points. The Election Board was rightly designated as an advisory body with authority. As regards the Minister's experimental law, the Council asked why there were no experiments involving electronic voting and counting. You may suspect me of riding a hobby horse, but it's not. I am concerned that the elections are open to as many people as possible and that as many people as possible can vote independently. The most important thing is that every vote ends up where it should end up. The Election Council says it's for an experiment. In fact, according to the council, it could have been in the other law. I can't make any more arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u114	I would advise Mr Taverne and the Minister to sit down together for a moment to discuss the arguments that are now being discussed. We have to give an opinion on this, but it is almost impossible for us to do so. We would like a clearer opinion and perhaps a more unambiguous response from Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u115	In my view, it should be very possible to make an assessment on the basis of the information put forward in this legislative process. Anyway, that goes without saying to the members of the Chamber. Mrs Fokke stated that my institution is one of the industry's leading players in this bill. Then we know the VVD again, she said. Firstly, I am not here as the voice of a VVD group position, but I am here to exercise the individual right of initiative of each Member of Parliament. I'm gonna put that aside. I have no comparison other than that of the chicken and the egg, even though I am a vegetarian. I'm gonna take it anyway. These devices do not come for the Netherlands if it is not possible in the Netherlands. It's as simple as that. That's not so weird either. If you don't allow cars in the Netherlands and the Netherlands is made car-free, you can't expect cars to be developed for the Dutch market. I can't do it any simpler than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u116	Isn't it true that Nedap developed something unsolicited? I don't want to be secretive about it, but that's just true. I don't think that theorem is entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u117	This would mean that we will soon be able to see a bill from Mrs Fokke that facilitates the admission of the Nedap device in the Netherlands. That would be the opposite way. By the way, there are more equipment providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u118	That's not the point. The point is that the whole idea here is that industry will not move until there is a legal framework. I just don't think that's true. I am not concerned at all with the company, but if Mr Taverne wants to debate the cut with me, then I am happy to take up that challenge. It just doesn't make any sense what Mr Taverne is putting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u119	I can inform Mrs Fokke that I had contact with Nedap yesterday and that company says: we will not do so for the Netherlands. Just so you know. Anyway. Industry first would be more careless? I dare to doubt that. If you want to decorate this carefully, you don't escape an experimental law and you don't escape AMvB's with veils. If this Chamber, now or in a future future, would go back to allowing electronic tools to be used in the voting process, I guarantee you that will be with an experimental law using AMvBs. The future will tell, but I dare put a good box of wine on it. The argument that safety is adversely affected when industry is at the forefront is incorrect. I want to turn it around. I think that if, given the knowledge of the technique present in the government, we determine in detail what a device should look like, a device will come out that will be less safe than if the expertise from the market can be used optimally. The lesson Mrs. Fokke is taking is a different lesson than I'm taking. The lesson I learn from the past is that we need to experiment before we take any further steps in the electronic voting process. That's what this law's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u120	That raises a question for Mrs. Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u121	Surely it is not the case that the expert group has been involved in electronic voting to engage in occupational therapy? We all want this to happen carefully, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u122	Absolutely. The fact that we have an expert group is the best evidence this Chamber attaches to care. It is the best proof that it is not such a crazy idea at all that this is an initiative legislative proposal. As the Chamber has repeatedly revisited this issue, the group of experts has been set up at all, at least at the time it did so. I imagine that expert group would not have seen the light of day if there had been no legislative initiative. Finally, Mr Amhaouch noted that it is remarkable that the Netherlands, which wants to take over its high-tech industry, its innovative power, its knowledge, its higher education and its technical education, is apparently not yet able to use electronic tools in its own voting process. That proves the point I've made before. I therefore rely on the CDA's positive commitment to modernising our electoral process on this point and perhaps on other points as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u123	I would like to thank the initiator for his second-term replies. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister in his role as advisor to the Chamber. I would ask him to give an opinion on both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. One question has been asked to me and there are two motions. Before I get there, I'm gonna have to make up for a failure. In my first term, I did not send compliments to the initiator. I want to do that now, and I want to go beyond the standard compliments for having the energy, the enthusiasm and the desire to work to do this. I must also testify that Mr Taverne has been incredibly chasing behind it from the beginning of this cabinet period on all points. This applies to electronic voting in the voting room and also to the test I announced with internet votes, that is to say for the whole process. He made sure that it wasn't said: we actually do know, we now have a way that works and so let's leave it at that. He has been constantly pursuing the idea of looking at whether new techniques can be used to make new developments possible. I think, for example, that the tests with Internet votes would not have been announced by the Cabinet this autumn if it had not been so printed by Mr Taverne. So my compliments. I have been asked one question by Mr Veldman about the procedure we are going through, namely whether that is a correct one. The way we are going now, in my view, is for us to take a decision at the end of this year as a cabinet, which can then, of course, be discussed here in the Chamber, if in principle we want to do such an experiment with electronic voting. If that is a yes, I have just mentioned a number of conditions for this. We will have to define precisely the requirements for the voting counter and the voting printer. It is then necessary to tender on the basis of these requirements. That will have to be a European tender. That's what happens then. This results in one or more suppliers who will develop the voice printer and the voice counter. That is the path the cabinet envisages. Moreover, it is in itself appropriate that the initiative law creates the legal framework for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u125	If I listen carefully to the Minister, he actually confirms what the initiator is saying, namely that you need to create the legal framework before you can get on with your work. If you did it the other way around, you would have to deal with one provider and you would no longer be able to do a European tender. Is it true that it should indeed be in the order indicated by the Minister now, so at the beginning of the journey, after the cabinet has made the choice to move forward and prepare the technical specifications, you must first have a legal framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u126	I am not going to move into the psychology of the market parties, but I think the most important moment is the "go/no go" moment at the end of this year, when the cabinet, with the support of the Chamber, decides in principle to do this experiment, based on market exploration, acceptance, coverage, etc. Then it becomes interesting for the parties to participate in that tender. The legal framework may already be put in place, but it may also be introduced at a different time. I'll leave that in the middle. That seems to me to be the time when it is clear to market players that politics in The Hague has decided to do that experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u127	Just before the sharpness. The Minister says it can be done now and that it can be done at a later date. Whether we do it or in a month or two months, it starts with a legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u128	My answer was that I think that moment that the cabinet has decided to enter the experiment will be the turning point for the market. For I must stick to that reservation, in addition to my advice to leave the opinion on the initiative proposal to the Chamber, I maintain that it has not yet been decided at this stage as far as the cabinet is concerned whether we are going to do that experiment. For this we will first have to do a market survey and first we will have to talk to the VNG about the estimated costs and where the resources should come from. I'll be on cover in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u129	It's clear what the Minister says. I understand that he is not saying now: we are deciding that these technical specifications will come. For the sake of clarity, when the cabinet decides to do so, a legal framework is needed. It therefore begins with the establishment of a legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u130	So the latter "so" does something to my certainty. Then it's a matter of timing. Mr Taverne estimates that, in order to keep pace, it is good to put a framework legislative initiative proposal into procedure. I actually want to leave that in the middle. You can also say this autumn: the decision in principle has been taken, so we can do this. Of course, there will have to be a legal framework. However, members have also seen, for example, that the Election Board states that autumn 2017 seems difficult to achieve in this respect anyway. In that case, there would be time to generate the legal framework. So I'm gonna leave that in the middle now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u131	Is a law necessary to do a market exploration? And is a law necessary to make a tender?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u132	The answer is no, but I do understand very well that this tender will only make sense if market players know that the experiment will be launched. That experiment does require a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u133	Exactly, but if there is an invitation to tender for such a device, that procurement also requires that apparatus. It will contain wishes and a possible direction of costs. I think market players will have a clear understanding of what they can offer. Then there is a logical time to make legislation. So I would argue that it is not necessary to adopt a legislative proposal at this time in order to carry out a market exploration and a tender. The Minister confirms that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u134	Yeah, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u135	I still want to ask a question to get it sharp. When you run a tender, there are requirements and all kinds of technical specifications. Those demands that are then made must have a basis somewhere. They have to land somewhere, don't they? The legislator must have said that this is what we want to do. I repeat my question: then it starts with a legal basis. Only then can you say: okay, we know where the boundaries are, we know the framework conditions, we know the frameworks. Only then can you tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u136	For an answer to this, I would refer you to what I said in the first term. Since we have not yet completed the market exploration and we do not yet know how we would like to organise that process in detail, if we are going to do it, I cannot yet see whether the initiative legislative proposal now before us in fairly general terms will prove to be sufficiently specific to serve as a legal basis for that procurement. I cannot yet see whether there might be a need for a supplement, adjustment or addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u137	I'd like to walk through the steps just to follow it closely. Market exploration is taking place, requirements are being made to be able to tender. It is very short to say: the next step is immediately an experiment. You can then first choose to do a test, such as when voting on the internet. Well, that's not before the elevator. Based on the results of that test, we could then take the next step in the form of an experiment or the next phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u138	Yes, but if it comes to that, my proposal to the Chamber would still be to do so in the form of an experiment. This is also in line with what is now going on and with previous proposals, which have come from the Van Beek Committee. I think that's a careful process. Then we'll do it one step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u139	Then why does it have to be in the form of an experiment? This means that voters are being used as guinea pigs, even though they do not know if they are going to be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u140	I saw that word in a motion, too. I'll be right back to discuss those motions. This is the way in which the electoral process has changed on other occasions, for example when it comes to introducing the possibility of voting at any polling station. The change was always gradual and one has always started a small experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u141	Good. The Minister is now going to judge the motions. But I see Mrs. Fokke wants to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u142	Yes, I do have a question about the foregoing. I think I understand better now what the Minister said in his first term. If we go down the road, the Minister may say afterwards that the initiative legislative proposal fits seamlessly. However, he also said that it is possible that the proposal for an initiative should eventually be amended. This happens when the whole process is completed and the proposal does not appear to fit afterwards. Is it true that there may be a very good initiative proposal now, but perhaps it has come a little too early? I said that, and Mr Van Raak said that. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u143	I don't have a glass ball. It may therefore be said in retrospect that, as a result of the market exploration, the talks with the VNG and the search for cover could be implemented within the framework of the Taverne Initiative Act. It may also be necessary to state that the initiative law needed to be updated, because some elements of what will eventually be covered in the procurement procedure should nevertheless be laid down by law in a way that is not included in the present proposal. I have to leave that in the middle right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u144	I suggest that you proceed to the verdict on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u145	Yes. Mr Klein's motion on item No. 11, because I do not find the way to innovate in this field in the process of VNG piloting. I agree with Mr Taverne that there is a need for market players to do their work on this point and not for an association of local directors to develop pilot schemes together with a department. As regards Mr Amhaouch's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u146	Before you do that, Mr Klein has a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u147	That is, of course, a strange argument. That is the same reasoning why Mr Taverne has put forward his proposal, precisely to give market players a chance to innovate. All I'm saying is we're gonna test a test setup and it's up to the market players to see how it's done and how they want to do it. That's not up to the VNG or this ministry. It is a very specific matter for the market players. It is about giving room for a test, just as the Minister wanted a test for the Internet vote. A test is then carried out locally with electronic voices, as a shadow system next to the regular voting booths. The word'refugee rabbit' has been used; yes, Mr President, I am against animal testing, so there should be no involvement in this context either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u148	I understand the difference between a test and an experiment, and I therefore advise against the motion before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you. Please continue with the motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u150	The Amhaouch motion in part No. 12 to some extent demands from the government what we are already doing. We recently proposed a small experiment with a change in the electoral process, not even changing the whole electoral process. That is a proposal which has been approved by the Council of State, the Election Council and the VNG. I hope that there will also be support for this in the Chamber, perhaps on the part of the CDA, but also otherwise. As regards the direction for the rest of the journey, I have already sent a letter to the Chamber about the market exploration we are doing and about the government's intention to take a "go/no go" decision this autumn. I explained that in this context, with the comments I made, it is not a problem to support the initiative proposal at this time. On the one hand, the CDA Group is asking for restraint, but on the other hand, the operative part calls on the government to make proposals for changing the electoral process. I think this is going a little far, because I think we should do it gradually. Although the thought is very appealing to me, I advise against the motion as it now stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u151	That raises a question for Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u152	The Minister just mentioned in his first term that there is a clear link to the proposal that was discussed last Tuesday on the new ballot. The choice for this is pre-sorted by the method of automatic counting. It is precisely in line with Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal, which is one of the reasons why we want to count automatically. In this motion, the CDA asks for these two things to be brought together. It's all about electronic tools and to come up with a concrete plan when what's being done, whether it's testing, experiments or certification. Tell me when we're gonna do something! I am not going to talk about the chicken, the egg and the rabbit at 11:45, but ask the Minister to clarify the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u153	It is indeed late, so let us not start a whole new discussion. The bottleneck in this whole is not the electronic counting. The proposal that the cabinet defended here two days ago concerns a form that will be filled in manually and counted in that experiment. I've said it's an A4's that you could count that electronically if you wish. The discussion, including the one we are about to engage in with the VNG, will focus on this printer. A much newer technology is involved than a scanner. Finally, let me make one final point about Mr Veldman's question about the willingness to talk to the VNG. Mr Taverne spoke about it indirectly in his reply. As a question to the government, I have experienced whether a solution cannot be sought from both sides. I insist that, when it comes to the electoral process, structuralally, this is a task for the municipality or for the municipalities to cover it. So there's got to be a clear view of that cover. I can't see now what the cost of an experiment would be; I've already promised to talk to the VNG to see what the basis for that is. Those two things are related: the willingness to do so structurally in the end if the experiment were positive and the question of where coverage for a locally limited experiment will come from. I'll report to the Chamber on that. I admit, however, that I will enter into this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u154	This brings us to the end of the second term of the initiator. I would like to thank the initiator for submitting this initiative law and for his defence. Many thanks go to the official support. I would like to thank the Minister in his role as advisor and, of course, the Members of Parliament for their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-8.u155	The votes on the proposed initiative and the two motions will take place on Tuesday.
