ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Ambassador of Germany, Mr Dirk Brendelmann, and the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. On Monday 19 December around 8 p.m. in the evening a truck ran past the Gedächtniskirche, a special church that reminds us of what hatred and violence can do. The truck drove into one of the most popular Christmas markets in Berlin at high speed. Such markets are charming places with stalls with often a bit of kitschy souvenirs and lights in the trees, where older people, young people and families meet with Glühwein around fires in the dark days before Christmas. But the casual cosiness that prevailed in Berlin and I think at every Christmas market has disappeared. Twelve people were killed. Almost 50 others were injured. Surprise, anger and fear; these are the primary emotions that come loose from such a cowardly, horrible attack. It could have been anyone. It could have happened anywhere. That thought brings it very close. It's like the violence is coming together at the end of the year. At the beginning of December, a bomb exploded at a football stadium in Istanbul. Later this month there was a car bomb in Kayseri. Aleppo was destroyed. The Russian ambassador to Turkey, Andrei Karlov, was murdered. It's still four days till Christmas, a feast that's about warmth, light, hope and solidarity. But everywhere in the world it's restless and things are happening that are at odds with that Christmas idea. Our thoughts are on the victims and next of kin in Berlin and on all those who had to miss out on the loved ones as a result of terror and violence. We mourn with them loved ones who do not come home and lives that will never be the same again. And yes, the attacks make us angry and scared, but at the same time they also force us to send out once again loud and clear the signal that we are not being guided by violence and fear. It is cowardly and it will never replace the values of our democratic rule of law. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands mourns with its neighbours, again. This time it happened on the Breitscheidplatz in Berlin. Another horrible attack. Again innocent dead and wounded. Again, families who suddenly have to miss a loved one. On the eve of Christmas, the feast of light and peace, it suddenly became dark and frightened, with one hard blow that will last for a long time. What now dominates is bewilderment, defeat and anger, and not only in Germany. For we share this emotion in our country, just as we share in the immense grief that so many of our eastern neighbours suffered on Monday. I also sent that message to Chancellor Merkel. In all the uncertainty that remains about the precise background to this attack, one thing is absolutely clear: we must continue to do everything in our part of the world to ensure the safety of people and protect our freedom. We must ensure that not hatred prevails, but humanity. I was struck by the reaction of an older German lady who said at the disaster site that she was not afraid. She literally said, "I'm not gonna let this scare me, or they're gonna win, and I can't do that." She quoted the following rule of the political poet, singer and honorary citizen of the city of Berlin, Wolf Biermann: "Du, lass dich nicht verhärten in dieser harten Zeit." That's what I'm underlining. Events like these cry out for unity instead of division. Madam President. Our thoughts go out to the victims and their next of kin. For many families this Christmas will be a very sad Christmas. We wish all those affected by this attack much strength and strength. It is good that we from this house say to them: The Netherlands is next to you, the Netherlands mourns with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	I would ask all of you to observe a moment of silence.
