ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. It's a bit special, such a cut in one party's argument. Was it the last time for my colleague, this budget, for me it is the first time. In China, the Secretary of State was there not so long ago, they don't know the word "old," but they do know the words "live longer." Longer life is a merit of our welfare state. In the last century, we've aged well on average. After the 65th year, yet for a very long time the time to call someone "old," men still live on average for 13 years and women still live on 17 years. We live longer. Longer healthy, but sometimes longer sick. The certainty that we are getting older also leads to uncertainty. How do I get old? Can I stay where I live now? Can I live the life I want to live? Do I get the help I might need later? Is there room for me in society? These and other questions need to be considered today. No one knows what awaits him or her in the future, but it is certain that the prospect of longer life makes you think about it. What if you can't stay home anymore? What if you become dependent on other people's care? These are uncertainties that may never be completely removed. However, the basis must be that you can rely on a government that provides accessible care when needed. For the Labour Party, we continue to work towards a just society in which there is a place for everyone: young and old, or "longer alive," sick and healthy, with limitation and without limitation. A longer life and a prospect of that requires that we look differently. My grandmother was very different at 70 years old than my mother is now. I see a lot of vital 60s and 70s in my office who rarely deal with the question of when it might be reduced, and who are not yet preparing for a phase in which it may be less. Let me make a comparison. When I was pregnant with my first child, I prepared myself for parenthood. I read books, took courses and bought a pram. Once I gave birth, there was the consulting agency that, in addition to controls for my child, supported me as a new parent. We don't think much about living longer. How come we don't do the same when we get older? A smart older girl must still be prepared for her future. The Labour Party wants us to be better prepared for ageing, for longer lives. We want to invite people to think about their future after their retirement. How do you want to grow old? How do you plan to decorate your life? What do you need? How do you pay for that care? How do you adapt your living conditions to your need when you get older? How do you get as healthy as possible? How do we preserve and strengthen social networks around the elderly, longer-lived, out? The PvdA also wants the government to take responsibility for the ageing population, for the longer-lived population. We want a vision of living longer and a society that is geared to the longer-lived. The Ministry of Health is the trigger, which develops a vision together with other ministries, such as the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst. We want a government that looks forward. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I see great initiatives in social cohesion, in the network of people. I am thinking of initiatives such as the neighborly aid in Haarlem. However, they are complementary. They are needed for cohesion in a neighborhood, for feeling safe and for living comfortably, but they are not a substitute for ensuring that you can trust that good care and support are given when needed. That confidence means there's a good place to go if things don't go at home. However, this often becomes apparent late and sometimes too late. Often it is only in an acute situation that someone can't make it back home. If it really is no longer possible, there must be a place where appropriate care and support can be provided quickly. Older people still end up in hospital emergency care too often, which is not the best place for them. Mrs Bruins Slot referred to that as well. These older people can be better helped in an acute care facility designed to provide appropriate care to the elderly. This is already well arranged in a number of places in the Netherlands. If necessary, appropriate reception will be provided there. The solution to be found for the longer term will then be examined. I want these places available everywhere, so that elderly people who need help can receive appropriate help quickly in case of emergency. Practice shows that it is often difficult to find these emergency beds. Now there must be clarity about an indication and only after that a place is sought and found. That takes a lot of time and gives a lot of unrest and discontent, for the people who it is about, but also for the environment and caregivers. The PvdA wants to take care of the care and the bed first and then look at what the financing is about. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to identify together with health insurers where there are still insufficient acute care places for the elderly. If the number of acute first-line beds for older people is inadequate, this should be changed as soon as possible. That is not a question of money, but of commitment and organisation. In particular, health insurers have an obligation to do so. When, I ask the Minister, can the Chamber get an overview of the white spots in the national coverage? Last weekend, at the invitation of a driver in long-term care, I stayed 24 hours in a small-scale department for dementia elderly people. There I experienced for myself what it is to really stay in a nursing home. Many of my colleagues here regularly come to nursing homes, but by being there for 24 hours, you could experience the rhythm of a department: the food, the going to bed, the waking up. I can tell you a lot about it, but the most important thing is to see how loving work is being done, how hard it is being worked and how incredibly hard caregivers are working day and night to provide the care they need for a very vulnerable and very difficult group. I think we are not saying enough here. You can also see what it's like to be confronted with reports about things that go wrong in nursing care. We have heard them today: blacklists, pee contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mrs. Leijten, I see you're trying to interrupt. I'll give you the floor in a moment. Let us agree that the interruptions are carried out in two stages and are kept concise. Bonded answers are part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	As far as I am concerned, Mrs Volp should have finished the block, because she is interrupting a fine sentence. The people who work in nursing care and home care now have to deal with a collective agreement concluded by two trade unions which actually have few supporters in this sector, without the FNV. These people do not want to go back to the broken services, which have just been abolished; they do not want to go back to the zero-hour contracts, which have also been abolished. They have asked us today to call on Minister Asscher not to declare this collective agreement universally binding. I missed you; at least, not you, chairman, because the VVD was there. Your colleague Potters was there, but I missed the Labour Party. Would Mrs Volp support calling on Minister Asscher not to declare this collective agreement, which is concluded without the support of all trade unions, universally binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	It's true I wasn't physically there, but I got the call, too. I have also received several reports about it. I will discuss this with the FNV. I support the call in the sense that I think you should have support for a collective agreement. If the support is not felt by a large group, that is reason to look at it again. So I can support the call for Minister Asscher to look at this again and see what is missing or why it is felt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is very good that you support that. At that meeting, a lady said she had to sign up for services since 1 October; she did not know in advance how many hours she could work. So the job security is completely gone. Besides, it's not good for the residents either, because they always see other people. It is precisely here that we are calling for permanent staff and sufficient staff. Such a collective agreement should not be allowed to slip through. I see this as support from the PvdA to those who say they deserve a good collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mrs Leijten may indeed see the willingness to ask Minister Asscher to look again at where it is missing and whether there are other options for that as support. In addition, it is also support for the people in the care who have expressed these problems. The PvdA wants good examples to be the norm. It can, it happens, so it has to be done anywhere. Quality of life must be monitored in all nursing homes and not only in private homes, where people who have more to spend can go. We see that the staff in nursing homes are confronted with residents with an increasingly serious concern. That requires different care, a different approach and other knowledge about what works. More knowledge about the care that is most effective needs to be made available. Together with the VVD, the PvdA wants a budget to be made available to scientifically underpin the knowledge and methods developed and present on the floor and thus to achieve effective care that becomes the standard and is assessed as such. We are expressly not talking about extra rules imposed from above, but about knowledge of nurses and caregivers who find in practice that certain care really works. That care must be validated and distributed and end up on the work floor in every nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	I think it is a very sympathetic amendment (3450-XVI, No. 23). I welcome the fact that we are investing more in long-term care and that we are doing more research and generating more knowledge. I have one substantive question. Of course, the Healthcare Institute has a role to play in this. It is a quality institute, which has a role to play in the quality of training. On the basis of the last passage of the amendment, it seems to be a bit outsourced. I wonder what the role of the Healthcare Institute is in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	The aim of the amendment is to create a scientific validation for what is being developed in the workplace. That care should end up in the quality guidance board and can be tested by the inspection: are you doing the right thing? That right must have been proven. I think the Healthcare Institute plays a role in that, too. The effect is important. I want to prevent us from imposing things from above that will create an additional burden on the workplace. We see that in many places beautiful things are being developed that turn out to work very well, but in which we miss the link with the scientific basis. I want that link in it, to make sure that it can then be embedded in what we find good care, which therefore works for the people who lie there and the people who work there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	I just said I'm excited about the amendment. So I totally agree. When it comes from the people themselves and when looking at best practices and good working methods, the Healthcare Institute can play a role. It could have the direction. It may also have the perseverance to ensure that it is widely introduced. Does Mrs Volp also see this role for the Healthcare Institute?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	Above all, I would like what we develop to land in the end. The Health Institute can play a role in this, but to decide right now that it should... I think it is important that the Secretary of State elaborates what is contained in the amendment. That's why we'll ask in a motion. Above all, I want this to be the basis for the quality we measure. We often talk about the rules and the ticks in debates now. This would be a nice initiative or at least a nice addition in which it really is about what works for people. Let's apply that to other places based on scientific validation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	When reading this amendment, I was wondering who this subsidy is intended for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is a subsidy for those people who notice on the floor that things work, who want these things to be done everywhere and that it also provides a basis for their scientific validation. There are wonderful projects; so does Mrs Leijten. But you see too often that these projects stay in the houses themselves and are not rolled out, because the link to their scientific basis is missing. That's where the money has to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	I asked a very specific question: who is the subsidy for? I think it is a nice proposal, but we are already doing so much research, we have had a whole experiment with low-level health care institutions and we have a list of measures that can simply be introduced. These measures have not been scientifically validated; they come from practice. I do not want us to create another circus of all kinds of bobos who tell the people in the workplace how to do it, when these people have been saying for years: just give us enough colleagues. That's why I asked where that grant is going. If I know that, I can check whether I think it is worth it or whether this is yet another study in which the workplace is not listened to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	Firstly, let me say that I am pleased that Mrs Leijten is prepared to assess the added value of this. Secondly, I share Mrs Leijten's fear. Indeed, we have enough subsidies and enough experiments where it is just about what works and what doesn't. At present, the scientific basis for this is lacking. I say that especially because you can use the scientific basis to embed it. I think this is necessary. For example, we can also scientifically support wonderful experiments with GPS tracking systems, including the way in which this can be embedded for the sake of more freedom of movement for people and thus more mobility and better quality of life. I share Mrs Leijten's fear of the top-down, sorry chairman, imposing extra things from above. However, we have also seen in the National Elder Care Programme that there are a lot of beautiful things, but that they do not then land and that they are not being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr President, if I may, I would like to ask one more time: who is this subsidy for? Is that subsidy for Lifelines in Groningen? That project has already been spent 100 million, but expectations are not being met. Does this grant go to Health Valley, where industry is also involved, or to the National Elder Care Programme? We've got so much already. Who does Mrs Volp want to give a specific grant to? That's what I want to know. I like the idea. I do wonder whether it is necessary, because we are already doing so much, while we are not helping the actual practice. So I want to know who Mrs Volp wants to grant this subsidy, because that is not in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	I shall come back to the question of how I see it later in my speech. I would call it "academic nursing home care." After all, we ensure that there is a scientific basis...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	Is the money given to ActiZ?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	No, not ActiZ, Mrs. Leijten, you don't have to be afraid of that. We see that it is necessary to develop. For example, you can involve the universities. It is about pooling knowledge there and the scientific methods they have to guarantee certain techniques. You indicate with your body language that this is not enough. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he sees this. I will explain in my speech how I see it and then you will have to make your own choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	The plan of the PvdA and the VVD is good, if it also gets a follow-up, namely that people have the time to take training at all. I hope this is part of a package. People get that knowledge, but when I see how little training time nurses and nurses have, I worry about that. I'd like to have a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	If there is one thing we should not pretend here, it is that we have the solution to the whole problem with everything we have to say here. I will also deal with the labour market later. As far as we're concerned, it's an en-en-story. Again, more things are needed. Yes, also the low-level experiments are needed and the removal of rules that exist. There is no ready-made solution to the whole problem. If we are to ensure that people can work in a way that is proven to be effective, I think that we will create more space to ensure that they do not do unnecessary or non-working work and do not lose any more time, for example because the method is not the way to approach patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mrs. Volp continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	As I said, it's about that effective care, like it is given every day by people on the work floor. It must become the norm and the inspection must check on that. As I said, call it academic nursing home care because of its scientific basis, but it should actually be academic nursing home care that contributes to the fact that what really works and is really better is applied in every nursing home. There are tremendously good ideas in the workplace about how care can and should be improved. Also in the National Elder Care Programme I mentioned it already very good ideas have been gathered. Those ideas need to be substantiated and disseminated. They must be the basis for the quality guidance. In this way we can share the knowledge that exists in the sector, disseminate best practices across the sector and come up with normative guidelines. Then good care really becomes the norm. To this end, I have tabled an amendment together with the VVD. Another very important issue is: how do we make working in long-term care more attractive? Mrs Bergkamp also mentioned it in an interruption. How do we ensure that students in long-term care see a future for themselves? Students, especially HBO-V'ers, do not find the nursing home a challenging and attractive workplace. They'd rather work at the hospital. In care for the elderly, there is a large shortage of well-educated people. In the line-up, we agree on how many people have to work in a department, but in practice the manpower must be there in a nursing home. How do we attract HBO nursing students and MBOs to a nursing home? The Labour Party wants a joint plan from the Ministry of OCW and VWS to make nursing care more attractive. Another point is how we ensure that people, mostly women, who are now working in long-term care, can continue to do their jobs. Actually, I'd say better armed with the right education and equipped with knowledge and skill. It really takes more than we see now. That is why I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to the question of how he looks at this. Lately we have heard a lot of reports about high laundry costs, whether or not to provide duvets and other costs that clients face by institutions. Too often institutions still do not comply with the rules laid down, despite intervention by the Dutch Health Authority and the State Secretary. Calculation of this kind of additional costs can be a burden on people. People are not supposed to have to choose another nursing home because they can no longer afford the laundry costs. Why can't this be any different? Are you sure homes can't come up with the compensation they get? Can they make that clear? Can the Secretary of State have an inventory of what extras are charged and why, how big the deficit really is and what considerations do institutions make when they pass on such costs to their clients? We can do this and we have to do this differently! Why does it come between drivers but not between the ears that they have to follow the rules that are currently in place? A truly connected society only arises when everyone in our society has a place. The PvdA believes that a society doesn't really work unless people feel put away. How can we, as a society, ensure that older people, longer-lived people and people with disabilities do not feel expensive, useless or a burden to society? How do we get to a society where living longer or living with a limitation is talked about with respect? All people can be part of our society: going to school together, working together, living together and understanding everyone who is different. 'Cause what's different? Otherwise, it's part of normal. The ratification of the UN Convention has been a very important step for the rights of persons with disabilities and for the PvdA. As far as my group is concerned, it is essential that the general accessibility standard should not become an empty one, but that it should become a reality for all those who feel too often left out. We will continue to work for this and we would therefore like to see the response of the Secretary of State to the consultation round for the AMvB in the short term. We also like to join the call made a few weeks ago by the Vereniging Gehandippenzorg Nederland. The system has to be appropriate for people. People don't have to adapt to systems. Can the Secretary of State state state what progress has been made in developing the assessment framework for children whose development is lagging behind? Can he respond to this very important appeal from the Dutch Disability Association? We see nice steps being taken. The current action for a dementia-friendly society is an example of this. My babysitter told me last night that she works at Albert Heijn and she's getting training on how to handle this. I think that is very good, because that also encourages her to think about this. Can this also be done for other target groups, so that this general accessibility becomes normal and so that everyone is appreciated in our society? It will appeal to the Rotterdammer in the State Secretary: we very much want words. Uh... no words, sorry. Let me try again, because for me as a non-Rotterdamer this may be a bit difficult: we want action above all! The PvdA wants to draw attention to a specific group. I saw that Mrs Dijkstra of D66 did the same. That group is the people with Huntington's disease. This horrible hereditary disease causes for many people, gene carriers, patients and their neighbors, years of fear and suffering. We have heard that research into Huntington's disease has virtually ceased due to insufficient funding. Unfortunately, fundraising is not yet off the ground, precisely when scientific developments are now so promising. Can the Minister undertake to take stock as soon as possible of the possibilities for a strong impetus for this research? Is it possible, for example, to identify the necessary budget in top care? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Living longer is something other than getting old. It calls for a different society, a society that is prepared, adapted and equipped, and that embraces longer life. Longer life calls for a society that embraces differences, that does not create unnecessary thresholds and provides the assurance that if you need care, you also get them. The Labour Party will continue to work towards a just society in which everyone has a place: young or old and longer alive, sick and healthy, with limitation or without.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	I see two women rushing to the microphone. Mrs Dik-Faber started walking earlier than Mrs Bergkamp and that is why I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had to travel a little farther! I would like to come back to accessibility. The Labour Party, GroenLinks and the Christian Union have jointly tabled an amendment to the UN Disability Convention to regulate accessibility. There is now an AMvB, which has received almost 600 responses. I have heard the question from the Labour Party to the Secretary of State, but I am also very curious about what Mrs Volp of the PvdA herself thinks of the present AMvB. Is it gonna be okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yes, we are concerned about that, and that is exactly why I am asking this question to the Secretary of State. We have clearly said yes to the ratification of the Treaty, and the amendment has made it clear on behalf of our party how important we think it is to actually regulate this. That is why it is important that an AMvB really contributes to this. We do have concerns about this, especially in view of the reactions that are now emerging via the internet consultation. This can't be an empty shell. I want to hear very clearly from the Secretary of State what he is going to do with what emerged from the Internet consultation round, because the goal is clear. We need to get to an accessible society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	It is good to hear that the Labour Party also believes that the AMvB should not be an empty shell. I understand that when the AMvB was drafted, there was actually no discussion with the people about who it is. There has been no discussion with their interest groups either. They find what is now so empty that they say: you can fix what you want, but that does not achieve the goal. So we should start again with a new AMvB, in which the target group is involved. Is that what the Labour Party wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	I am glad that through the consultation it has been possible for people to say something about this. A lot has been said about it and I share the concern. I also want to know from the Secretary of State how he assesses that and whether it is indeed a reason to go back to the drawing board. We ourselves will have to consider whether what is now there, with all the comments made by the people about who it really is, whether or not what we have agreed, what we have ratified and the amendment. If not, we need to look at how it can be met. That could mean we need a modified AMvB. If the Secretary of State knows any other way to get this done, I'd like to hear it from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	I am not quite clear as to where the Labour Party is now. Can the current AMvB count on the support of the Labour Party, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	We've got a consult. We have the order of things. I'm worried about what I got back from the field. That is why I am looking very critically at whether this AMvB actually contributes to us taking the necessary steps. We have fought those steps, including with the amendment. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how he sees it, but let me say first of all that with this AMvB and in particular with what has come in through the consultation round, I have a great deal of difficulty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	Having difficulty seems to me the least, because when you look at the AMvB you see that it does not set clear standards. People haven't been involved. In no way is it clear to what extent this is an improvement on what we already have, so "have trouble with it" seems to me to be the least. I expected the PvdA, as initiator of the amendment under which the names of Mrs Dik-Faber and myself are included, to say, like Mr Van Dijk, by the way, that this General Measure is not sufficient. I am sorry that I do not hear this clear language now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	I'm still talking about my own words. I have also heard Mr Van Dijk. We were in the same item, by the way. I have indicated that I feel that responsibility in my job as his successor in the Chamber is very clear and that I certainly want to guard the legacy he has left. You've heard how I'm in it, that's not without concern. In view of the reactions we received through the consultation rounds, I would like to hear again from the Secretary of State how he looks at them and how he intends to remove the concerns he has expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	I gave Mrs Voortman the floor earlier, because my question is on a completely different subject. Mrs Volp and I visited the Transvaala Pharmacy together, where we met with cannabis oil. We were both impressed by the stories we heard about that. So we all have our own spearheads, let's just say. We were told that there is very little scientific research into the effects. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Is Mrs Volp prepared to support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	Honesty commands me to say that I have not yet read the amendment. Of course, I will. Yeah, we did make that work visit together. One of the more positive reports we were able to hear from America today was that a large number of states legalized cannabis. I would very much like to look at that amendment. We have often talked about the importance of the effective action of cannabis oil; we agree on that. The same applies to good research. It was nice to see what the Transvaalpotheque is doing, but as I said, I still have to read the amendment. I know the Secretary of State must be very keen to take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	I was just looking at V-K: it would be nice if we could read minds. My hope is based on the PvdA, because we came to the conclusion together on that work visit that it would be nice to have more scientific research; that is what the amendment is about. For the rest, I agree with the good news from the United States. Hopefully we will have a whole debate on the D66 initiative law on the regulation of weed cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	On this file, your hopes for the PvdA have never been vain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mrs. Volp is also a general practitioner. So she knows the value of vitamin D and calcium in osteoporosis, bone decalcification and pain control for rheumat patients. Furthermore, she knows how important it is to get folic acid in the skin disease psoriasis. Now the proposal of the Healthcare Institute, following a request for advice from the Minister, is to take this out of the basic package. People are gonna get it from Etos or Kruidvat themselves. This will save 120 million in healthcare costs for all of us. Then elderly people, people with rheumatism and other chronically ill people are presented with the bill. How does Mrs. Volp, as a general practitioner, feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	That's a tricky dilemma. I'm standing here as a member of the House of Representatives. I have these patients, too. I suggest first of all that it is especially important to see if those costs do not pile up. But heavy paracetamol is cheap at any supermarket. If, for example, the recipe rule can be saved, this is something to seriously consider. I share your concern that these costs should not be stacked. I also share your concern that these are essential food supplements, minerals and vitamins that are particularly important for this vulnerable group. But we also need to look at how these costs might increase by keeping them in the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	It is amazing that the MP Volp, who very often quotes the general practitioner Volp, now says: I am only a Member of Parliament. In practice, it sees what throwing those resources out of the package means for people, but also what therapy means. Which medication poisonings and errors could not be the result? I am sorry that the Labour Party cannot say here: saving 120 million on the basic package, which is borne by chronically ill and elderly people. They have to pay the bill themselves. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	I didn't say I didn't speak here as a general practitioner, but I'm standing here as a Member of Parliament now. Once every two weeks I have consultation hours in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. I also said I know these patients from practice. Therapy loyalty isn't just about a fee. I know that, too. Therapy loyalty is also because drugs work, because people notice the effect of pain relief, for example with the heavy paracetamol that Mrs Leijten talked about. I share Mrs Leijten's view that we need to look at how we can change the arrangements for the costs, which are now being made in a basic package, which also includes all kinds of storage, so that there is no accumulation for people with chronic illness. So far, I can answer her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	I can't get used to it and I'm not getting used to anyone saying that something good news has come out of America today, namely that we are legalizing weed cultivation. There is no way that a general practitioner who will have had someone in his office who is addicted to this or if you have had to deal with students who are stoned in the classroom once, will call that good news. This is something for another time, but I just wanted to say it here. I'm going back to the United Nations Convention. Mrs Volp is concerned about that. If you read the General Measure of Governance that is about the general accessibility that needs to be achieved, then surely you cannot simply say that you have concerns about it? Then you come to the conclusion that it is very general legal? If you put that AMvB next to the plan of action that we saw a while ago, we're not going to take any steps together, are we? Can Mrs Volp therefore show a little more ambition and not just let it depend on the reply of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	I'll deal with the latter first. We have supported this law and there is now an incredibly important treaty for ratification. This is the most important step. It must now be put into practice. An AMvB is a means to this end, but the goal remains that we move towards an accessible society. I am concerned and that means that I will look very critically at the reaction of the Secretary of State and see if it is sufficient for our party to consider the added value of this AMvB. If there is not, we will consider other steps. Then we will have to make sure that this law, which we have supported and which is extremely important, can actually enter into force and that it really will lead to a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	Then I would like to know from the PvdA group when she is satisfied. What is this Secretary of State going to say, which will allow the PvdA Group to say: it's going great, this is exactly what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	Let me put it another way: I am satisfied and the Labour Party is satisfied when the people who have now expressed their concern through the internet consultation on this AMvB say that what the Secretary of State comes with is the right way forward. Then I'm satisfied. I would also like to come back to Mrs Keijzer's first point. I have often had enough to do with her colleague, the spokesman for Security and Justice. I don't give a free pass to kids who get addicted. I am very clear about what is important, but we see that the current policy we are pursuing in the Netherlands is the worst of two worlds. That is why I welcome the legalisation, where we see that a product that presents risks is clearly available to certain target groups and with which we get rid of all the negative things that we are dealing with in Dutch policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	Really short, Mrs Keijzer, because the clock is ticking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u45	It's a complete fiction if you think that if you legalize something, for example the entire industry behind it will say: oh, can we do it legally now and pay taxes, well then we'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr. Chairman. No one here has missed the diagnosis of nursing home doctor Hoekstra in NOVA that because of human shortages in our nursing home care situations have arisen that she calls inhumane. The example she then gave was that of an elderly man who needed 24-hour hand-in-hand care. The staff could not meet that need with the best intentions, and the man was tied to his bed at night with a Swedish band. The retention, the accumulation of urine in his bladder, was not observed. For example, this man died one night in nursing home Jan Bonga in Amsterdam in the beginning of the 21st century a torture death. A torture death. Maybe my colleagues or the Secretary of State can pick a better word. If not, one of the conclusions is that in our nursing facilities elderly people die of torture due to staff shortages. I have only one question to add. How is it possible that, in the event of such a serious situation, the inhuman conditions in which our older people have spent their last years and died, a solution that is so obvious, namely investing in well-trained staff who can adequately solve the problem, does not reach a majority in this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. This was my contribution to an urgent debate on the poor care in nursing homes on 17 April 2009. But we didn't just roar, we added the deed to the word. In 2010 we made the agreed agreement and squeezed the care budgets for the institutions with an investment of 820 million euros to cost level. EUR 200 million of it was used for further training. The inspection received half more budget. But more was done: a principle law that gave residents of institutions rights to carry out unannounced inspections, to use mystery guests, a fusion test and a driver test, a real experiment in practice for keeping a care institution, even to ban unnecessary rules with an overhead standard where the proceeds flow back to the workplace and so on. And now, seven years later, we are back to square one, the concern has been bombarded into the electoral theme and we, the squabbling women's committee, as we are called, are fighting each other again. I understand the cri du coeur of the pamphlet of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers: we should not politicise like that. At the same time, I have no choice. We've been so horribly screwed over the past few years. The care was broken down and the Secretary of State pretended it all got even better. In response to the pamphlet he threatened: our care for the elderly is good, realize that! It was crazy from time to time. I wrote it off in my book Silver. The book was at first just a compilation document in which I gathered all the evidence against all those mantras, all the excuses that the cabinet made up to justify the mega-losses on care for the elderly. They said: older people want to live at home for longer; there are plenty of houses that provide good care with a limited budget; the quality is not yet in order everywhere; the AWBZ was 275 million once and is now 28 billion; the AWBZ is outdated; no one gets on the streets; older couples are not separated; from systems to people; the nursing homes are not closed and so on. In the meantime, we know a lot better. The 31 mantras in my book give an intriguing picture of how we've been tricked. But the Secretary of State wasn't a soloist. He was helped by the coalition, the friendly opposition and by Brussels. Although helped, Brussels was of course the instigator and we had to follow. But the PVV didn't, and soon we were on the sidewalk of the Catshuis. Three days later the Kunduz chord was concluded laughing, the demolition of care for the elderly was deployed, care homes were closed and the emasculated Agemaalten were gone. A year after my book was published, I can say that it was very well received. Journalists even wrote openly that I didn't get enough credits for it. Thank you very much for that. But I also criticize myself. I've been too sweet. What do you mean 31 mantras unraveled? It was a lie. It was a deception. I had collected and neatly grouped 559 reports, investigations and articles to prove that. So I can't help myself. I am sorry, Mr Borst and Mrs Gaemers, but I have no choice but to politicise. They're lies, and it's hypocritical. It's their fault, and it's time we said it, I said it. End of goodness, end of cleanliness. We've been tricked. We've got to move the helm around. Talks don't fill holes. Now make promises, now murder and fire screaming will be butter with the fish. Now demanding that urethra contracts are off the table, Mr Potters, is to arrange for the elderly simply to be helped to the toilet. There's more I'm very angry about and I don't want to be nice about anymore. I do not want to have to ask repeated series of parliamentary questions because things are deliberately clouded. Here too an end to cleanliness and an end to goodness. We've been fucked for years about rising care costs. There's been magic with numbers until no one else knew what was going on. Different numbers, different answers all the time. Almost everyone looked at these magical arts with raised eyebrows. "Miraculous," the Secretary of State once wrote in response to a table of us, which we had made up of his information. "Miraculous" is an understatement. How can the Secretary of State get away with the fact that numbers are more variable than the weather? I'll give you five examples. First of all... Oh, what did the Netherlands compare with our neighbouring countries in terms of healthcare costs, according to OECD, the European central planning agency? It had to be better: go, put the axe in it! But what turned out? The Netherlands kept its tables very well, much better than the rest. The Dutch administrative diligence led to a true hetze against the cost of care. The care lost the hotshot, the axe cut through. Second. During the previous election period, the main focus of the major cuts was on care. The predictors of the Central Planning Bureau sketched dark clouds for the future. Because by 2040 we would have lost half our income of care. Everyone was talking about it. The hotshot was further fueled. The Central Planning Office had not been completely tidy and acted as if GDP would grow much less than it is now. It had ignored all the measures that Klink, Bussemaker, Schippers and Veldhuijzen had already taken, which meant that there was much too much growth. The Central Planning Bureau withdrew its doom scenario. You'd think the hotshot would stop, but it wasn't. The policy continued. Third. During the prediction of the AWBZ, until the 2014 budget, the AWBZ grew to around 2 billion per year. Today, in the answer in written rounds of questions, we get all sorts of new calls that suddenly no longer take the 33 billion for the AWBZ in 2017 from the 2014 budget but only 30 billion. Yeah, you should be able to clean away the 3.2 billion in cuts in care for the elderly. But it wasn't 3.2 billion, it was 6.2 billion. For 2018, the gap is 8.2 billion compared to 3.2 billion. That's a lot more. But that truth has nothing to do with this Chamber. Everyone was there, stood by, at the Kunduz chord, at Bruggen, at the care agreement and at the autumn chord. Fourth. Everyone was also at the growth area of the AWBZ. According to the NZa, it was 595 million euros in 2012. It has now fallen to EUR 50 million. EUR 28 billion plus EUR 595 million per year leads to the staggering amount of EUR 45 billion in 2040. But 28 billion euros plus 50 million a year is less than 30 billion in 2040. It's smart to be so cosmetically administratively relieved of your rising care costs. The bonus is absolutely beautiful, because of course the 50 million is far too little. Then you're gonna make an extra $2 million and then you're gonna have extra money released. Doesn't anybody see this, or doesn't anyone want to see it? Fifthly, the new general rule of calculation. It was embraced by the General Court of Auditors, the Central Planning Bureau and the ministries of VWS and of Finance. All of our alternatives to government policy can count on a 12% cut in revenue, where the Ministry, with all the system changes it has made in recent years, has been counting on a 5% cut in revenue. Adjust that trade, you'd think. But no, I don't think so. The tables in the budget we are discussing today have not been adjusted. 5% yield is still expected. The motion I tabled to draw one line was rejected, "because PVV." Unfortunately for the care, for all those elders who were the pisang. Bewilderment has taken over me by now. How can you go along with this as a party? What do you think if you are the VVD, the CDA, the PvdA, GroenLinks, ChristenUnion, D66 or the SGP? What do you think if, three days after the Cat house break, you make it possible to shut down the nursing homes? Do you think about the hard bucks? Do you think about the elderly living in a leaning home that won't stand up to anything? Do you think about all those seniors? Is that why you're smiling in the room? What goes through you when you decide to halve the domestic aid and cut the daily spending on dementia by 90%? Do you really think as a PvdAer: the VVD actually wanted to abolish the whole domestic aid, so that's profit? Or are you thinking about the older guy who's at home polluting, eating bad food and losing his only social moment in the week? Or are you thinking about that lady who needs to be hospitalized because she's completely exhausted because of her demented husband who's so worried about taking care of herself now that the daily spending is gone? Then what do you think as a puppet of the high lords of the country offices if you have forgotten that you are yourself the representative of the highest office? Then you think, "So, we did a good job." But there was something else missing. Good or not good doesn't matter. The PVV influences also had to be meticulously exploited from the healthcare policy. The PvdA refers the PVV motions and amendments to the trash and removes them before emptying the trash bins and puts its own name underneath. Ah, a knee ear that pays attention to that. Anything's better than that horrible PVV. Let me start with the PVV's basic law for residents of healthcare institutions, giving them the right to a daily shower, to go outside and to have a natural toilet. There's no need for that. The care plan's gonna take care of it all. That's gonna make the care of those residents a lot better. Those were the excuses. But now we know better. With the care life plan, institutions regulate a puddle contract. With residents' rights, a resident can go to the bathroom 36 times a day, because that is the crux when it comes to a dignified and proud life. The nursing home resident then decides himself, gets no puddle contract and is also not forced into incontinent. The same applies to nursing homes where showers only take place on Sundays. This is enforced through the care plan in some homes. Or take the generic washing of all residents with impregnated washcloths. With residents' rights, the institution is not about it, but about it, in dignity and pride. However, residents' rights were deliberately and actively demolished by D66 and the Labour Party from the Wlz, because it was an idea of the PVV. Or take the experiment with the low-control settings. Very sneaky new motions are constantly being tabled for the inventory of rules that can be deleted. After all, the Secretary of State had made up all sorts of excuses on the occasion of a motion, signed by everyone, to roll out the results nationwide. That's what's already been done. That's how he made everyone believe. Everyone knows that's not true. On the contrary, they were adopted at the level of the law. Everyone knows that the 680 rules that have already been notified are just on the shelf at VWS dusting? I had taken it physically in two thick files to the debate. My colleague, Mrs Gerbrands, had done the same during my maternity leave. Then there were also the Agemaalten and the additional education budget. According to the Secretary of State, they are still intact, but everyone here knows that these funds are no longer available and that the cost is no longer 100%, but who knows where they are? Now there is the call for extra staff and training, because the nursing home resident is an ever heavier patient. There's a name for someone who looks better and more honest than he or she is. Then it was 2012 and now it's 2017. This Chamber is chasing the facts that it itself has caused. She's waking up now that the elections are coming. This room has been sleeping for five years and I must confess that it takes me a lot of trouble not to ignite in anger here. It was D66 in this Chamber who with the Kunduz chord closed the nursing homes and stopped the Agemaalten. When the damage of this choice became painfully visible, a motion was tabled for an action plan staff nursing homes. That action plan was already there with the corresponding funding, deleted by other D66. Short is the budgetary illusion, long is the regret. It was the CDA in this Chamber that closed the nursing homes with the Kunduz chord and stopped the Agemaalden. Wake up from the budgetary dream, the current government policy is now being held responsible for the reduction of care in nursing homes and the CDA suddenly sees that these houses become completely or partially empty and that this has a major financial impact on these care homes and that they have to close their doors. A pile of butter was never as big as on the head of the CDA. Or take the aforementioned dysfunctional managers. A motion was rejected yesterday which the CDA actively voted against. It was the Christian Union in this Chamber that could not wait to support the Kunduz accord, to strike a line through the Agemaalden and to close the nursing homes. Now the same Christian Union is asking for extra staff, extra money for carers and keeping the nursing homes open. Repentance always comes after sin. The Labour Party in this Chamber could not wait to destroy the necessary rights for residents of nursing homes, who embraced her own Secretary of State as the main spearhead to tackle the quality of nursing homes. Those rights could have made puddle contracts impossible. Don't let this be true, Mrs. Volp tweeted. It's true, thanks to you, Mrs. Volp. The emergency beds are the result of the closure of the nursing homes. You did not even support the debate on laundry costs, Mrs Volp, let alone the motions we tabled! You stood here for minutes talking about laundry costs, but you block debates and vote against motions. Finally, I come to the VVD in this Chamber. It is responsible for the balding in care for the elderly and for four years deaf and blind to all abuses. Ergo, she wanted more cuts. For four years, she has not supported any initiative by making a little difference to all those people who were deprived of good care through the policy of this VVD. We even have a VVD Prime Minister who dismissed all this misery as bullshit and moody. But what a turnaround: now that the elections are coming, this VVD in campaign mode is going to be at the front to speak shame of its own praised policy, full of empty promises. Is there anyone else who believes this? Mrs. Bergkamp, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u47	I think that's a very nice little bridge from Mrs. Agema to me. In Mrs Agema's speech, everyone gets kicked. I think she said a lot ugly about all the parties, but what did the PVV do when it was in power? Can Mrs Agema indicate what the result of ten years of PVV has been?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u48	My whole argument is that everything that the PVV arranged in the toleration agreement has been personally thrown out of policy by you. Before you mention a puddle contract again: the principle law that residents of institutions had given rights has been demolished by you personally. There was so much in the docks. Remember to set the experiment in a low-level setting. That was my proposal. My idea would be implemented, but even before we can roll out the results, the Secretary of State says he did it a long time ago. It's not true! You know that, Mrs Bergkamp, and I know that, but you continue to make motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u49	When the PVV had the chance to do something, she ran away. She had a chance to influence the policy, but what did the PVV do? She ran away. Mrs Agema gives all the parties so much, but does Mrs Agema have a moment of reflection herself? Does she ever think: should I look for cooperation? Does she sometimes think: let me not just throw it into this Chamber, but let me see what colleagues' ideas are and let me support them? If Mrs Agema really wants to do something for all those people in nursing homes, it would suit her not only to insult all parties with nonsense, but also to engage in cooperation and to really improve things together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u50	First of all, I am proud that Geert Wilders and I have left the Catshuis and that we have kept our backs straight. I find it truly insane that three days later, on behalf of your chairman, you simply destroyed the care of the elderly. Three days after the Cat house break, the spring chord was there and the decision was made to extract the care packages 1 to 3. That decision has been made by you, Mrs Bergkamp, and now you want me to work with you. You don't think I'm gonna work with you the moment you get the right of residence out of the Wlz, do you? I'm not crazy! I'm not gonna work together to tear down the care, am I? All sorts of motions have already been tabled on rules and overhead. They have been adopted for a long time, but we are back to square one every time, because D66, among other things, is constantly taking these initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u51	Shortly, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u52	I'll be brief. I am really very far away from what Mrs Agema says about aborting care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u53	I know. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mrs Bergkamp has the floor, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u55	When I talk to my mom about the care, she says, "God, how good is the care of the elderly." I hear Mrs Leijten say a lot of things now, but my reaction to this is: I may also bring in my personal experience once instead of just listening to her negative experiences. When my mother then reads in the newspaper statements by Mrs Agema or Mrs Leijten, she thinks that the concern is going to go to hell, while her own experiences are different from all the crap......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think it's good to have a counter-sound. I really distance myself from the words Mrs Agema uses to accuse parties in this Chamber of the breakdown of care. If she really wants to do something for the clients in the nursing homes, it would please her to seek cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u56	Of course, I will never seek cooperation to break down the concern with D66; I will never or never do that. I'm not gonna let you talk me into anything. It is D66 that actively closes the nursing homes. That's what she did with the Kunduz chord. It contains the extramuralisation of the care packages 1 to 3. That's what scares me. It causes fear that people can't go anywhere, that they have to stay at home or that they have to stay at the hospital because there are no more nursing homes because D66 has decided to do so. That scares people, and I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr President, I was...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u58	I want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u59	If you can't win, go make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u60	I think this is amazing. Mrs Bergkamp is standing here interrupting Mrs Agema and suddenly I am also being called in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u61	Because you're in the background souffling all sorts of things. Then you must also keep your mouth shut when I am speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u62	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u63	Now we're the shivering bitches again, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u64	You may take a moment to listen to who gets the first floor, Mrs Agema. Mrs. Leijten just felt very touched. I kind of saw her jump up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u65	I would like to make the point that personal experience may also cloud our understanding of the general situation in the care sector. That's all I said. Apparently this is an open nerve of D66 and I understand that, because she is responsible for the closure of the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u66	Let's name each other less and play less on the person. Mrs Bergkamp responds briefly and then Mr Van der Staaij does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u67	I am glad that I, together with Mr Van Dijk, have brought about an adjustment of the coalition agreement. I remember very well the discussion about thezzp'ers, the question of when people can stay at home and when they can go to a nursing home. We said at the time that the government's standard was unrealistic for us. We've changed that policy. I think if you're looking for cooperation with parties, you can improve things for people. At least that's D66's ambition and mine personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u68	Yeah, but over the past few weeks, the Chamber was standing on the back legs when it was about those pee contracts. When we had the debate here and D66 actively demolished the principle law from the Wlz, she said: but there is still a care plan? It is precisely this care plan that regulates that institutions say: you're going to pee three more times a day. Or institutions say: we only shower on Sundays. That is the crucial difference between the principle law and the care life plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u69	In the long list of wrong parties I missed the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u70	But you were there! I did mention you, Mr Van der Staaij and the SGP. Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u71	Well, then I'm completely reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u72	Yeah, you were there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u73	For a moment, I thought you were too kind, but then this was corrected. But here's another question. When I talk to people from institutions, from the practice, I often hear: Mrs Agema will be coming along soon. And then Mrs Leijten is often around. And fortunately, so are many other colleagues. This experience is very important for our work here to see what is going wrong in practice. What is the main bottleneck that the PVV, Mrs Agema, encounters in healthcare and what is the most important feasible solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u74	That is where I began my speech, Mr Van der Staaij. I started my speech with the example of Jan Bonga's debate. Nurses said the big problem in nursing care is that there's a shortage of staff. Whether it's dehydration, malnutrition, ligature wounds, abuse, too little time or no chat, there's always a shortage of colleagues. Of course we had the Agemaalten in 2012 and there were 12,000 extra hands at... there were a few hands at.. but that was turned back. And, of course, we also need to free up more money. But even if you see that the Secretary of State has already confirmed to us that if you cut the overhead to the level at which good institutions function, you will have EUR 1.8 billion left. Well, then you can train over 30,000 extra full-time nurses. That's the kind of thing we're all gonna have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u75	Too little time and therefore a inadequate human measure in care and too high a workload for the people I recognize. That's what I hear. But I also see that there are great differences in practice. Is extra money the solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u76	Yes and no. There are very good institutions. We can all name our favorites: Altenastaete or Neighborhood care. Those are institutions that we all know and do very well. But if you take the inspection reports, you'll see unannounced visits from the inspection that only 4% of the houses have the personnel in order. So the biggest problem is also very broad. And I do not think it is right to say in every sense that there are institutions that are doing well, now that there are so few in terms of staffing. I know that people everywhere have the best intentions, the people at the bed: the nurses. But I have great criticism of the management layers up there, the dysfunctional drivers who are thrown out somewhere and who then appear in that career of dysfunctional managers as an expensive interimmer in another institution, when that institution is already in bad shape. So I have a problem with that, too. I do hope that we will be able to work together, and that there is now, in the direction of the elections, one subject that we all share: there is no need for 10,000 hands, but, in my view, 50,000 to 100,000 extra pairs of hands in nursing care, on the left or on the right. Whether we do that with extra money or with dealing with overhead, waste, rules or fraud, we have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u77	I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij, because we are talking again about the content of care for the elderly. In my view, we all share the importance of this, even though we sometimes differ on the solution. In this light, I have a question for Mrs Agema about the amendment she has tabled, which aims to incorporate into the law different aspects of the agreements on care. Now that is also settled, but in another legislation, namely the Decision on long-term care. How are these two different?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u78	The problem is that prisoners in prisons, for example, have a Law of Principles which regulates one-on-one for them to appeal if they are not allowed to exercise twice a quarter of an hour a week. We have arranged that the Principles Act is no longer there at legislative level, but has been put away in lower regulation and is therefore no longer so enforceable. That's why we're dealing with the care plan. That Law of Principles is therefore covered by that plan of care. That's gonna get pee contracts. So it's a totally wrong placement. This has to be brought back to the Wlz at the level of legislation from the lower regulations. That was the intention of your Secretary of State, with whom I made that law together. It was my idea. State Secretary Veldhuijzen van Zanten felt that too and wanted to, as an old nurse doctor. In her, I found a buddy, and with her, I came up with this and wrote it down. I therefore hope that the CDA, together with its former Secretary of State, will continue to feel that this should be regulated at legislative level rather than under the care plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u79	Let's get back to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u80	Here's the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u81	If you will allow me, I am really looking for what will improve if we accept Mrs Agema's proposal. Is it not the case that, if this is put back into the law, agreements must be made on all these different aspects, and that is how they are now arranged? And isn't it true that if something isn't in a law, but in other regulations, people can claim it? It is really important for me to discuss this with each other. That is why I have the question of how this is placed with the Secretary of State. Whether or not the proposal is adopted, I do not want people to think it is getting better, while in practice it makes no difference where exactly this is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u82	Thus, with the former Secretary of State Veldhuijzen van Zanten, whom I am very grateful for cooperation in this area, we initially opted for a separate law, the BAZ Act, a health institutions principle law, so that it was very clear what people are allowed to do: every day if they want to, or every day in the shower if they want to. It has been removed from the legal text level and is included in the care life plan. The care plan is a contract of the institution with the resident. Mrs Keijzer asks me what the difference is. If you, as an employee or as a child or a friend of a resident, can say that the Principles Act states that a person himself is about his natural toilet, you have no discussion about it anymore. In a care plan, the institution just says, "That's how we're gonna do it." That is why this should not be placed so low, but at legislative level. That is why we agreed with the CDA and the former Secretary of State, as well as with this Secretary of State, because he has done a great deal to keep that law of principles at legislative level. He was against the PvdA and D66 proposals. The principle law was its main focus to boost the quality of care in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mrs Keijzer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u84	Very briefly. We all think that puddle contracts are bizarre. I have also said that drivers who come up with that are simply unsuitable, but today I am concerned whether we have arranged this correctly or not. That is independent of the question of whether this is then dealt with in pee contracts by people who I don't know what's going through their heads. So I am also very interested in the State Secretary's opinion on this part, because this has to be well arranged. In my opinion, it is. If that's different, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u85	So that's not well arranged. The new Wlz started on 1 January 2015 and is therefore in force, but still we have pee contracts and "here is showered on Sundays." If residents' rights at legislative level were governed by that principle law, this would simply not have been possible. The first one the best would have just gone to court. Then it was settled as the Secretary of State wanted it, as the previous Secretary of State wanted it, as I wanted it, as the CDA wanted it and as even the VVD wanted it back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mrs. Agema was pretty angry and disappointed in everyone. I can imagine that, because the level of revanchism with which the good proposals for care for the elderly have all been removed after the disappearance of the tolerance support of the PVV was appalling. Those were political games. There was not the importance of the elderly first, but above all: this was from the PVV, so we take it away. You shouldn't have. For example, I am reading a bit of what Mr Borst and Mrs Gaemers mean by that first point: if one party regulates money for good care for the elderly, that is not PVV money, SP money or CDA money, but that is tax money. But I do have a question to ask the PVV, because she tolerated a cabinet that raised the AOW age, closed the social workshops, made it possible to pay benefits for hospitals and that the housing corporations imposed the landlord's tax, which now leaves a housing shortage for people who need affordable rentals. If Mrs Agema looks at this afterwards, on the one hand, the revanchism with which all that was achieved by the PVV has been removed, on the other hand, the impact on society of these other measures - was it worth it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u87	We shouldn't have turned in "65 stays 65." We came back to that later. We shouldn't have done that. The SP has decided to go to the Central Planning Office. I am sure she does not have the money to reverse all those points that Mrs Leijten just mentioned. I'm sure of it. We'll put this list next to it now. Mrs Leijten is not going to reverse all that. One: "65 stays 65" we shouldn't have given up. Two: the social workshops are not closed under Rutte I. They were limited under Rutte I to the target group for a protected workplace. The Labour Party and the VVD closed the social workshops in Rutte II.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u88	Certainly, the attack on the social workshops has been even more waged by Rutte II. Now, in fact, there's no access anymore. The law on profit distribution is still in the First Chamber, because there is currently no majority in favour of it. Mrs Agema will see what we are doing in the area of housing, because we are certainly going to let that happen. But Mrs Agema is partly responsible for 50 billion cuts in our society in six years. Mrs Agema always had a good story with that, because she said: there has been investment in care for the elderly. That's all turned back. All the good steps that have been taken have been undone. My question was whether it was worth the PVV. I can't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u89	No, because this isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u90	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u91	Mind if I do my story, Mr. Chairman? You're not just gonna cut me off, are you? In fact, Rutte I cut 16 billion instead of 50 billion. Once again, the SP has decided to go to the Central Planning Bureau and I assure Mrs Leijten that it is not going to succeed in turning back EUR 50 billion. We will also do a number of points, such as "65 remains 65" and the rents. So there has been a watershed between Rutte I and the Kunduz chord, Rutte II and beyond. On balance, Rutte I invested three-quarters of a billion dollars in care for the elderly. We now know that billions and billions and billions have gone away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u92	In short, Mrs Leijten, because this is almost your twelfth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u93	If 50 billion has been cut back on society, no party can, of course, reverse it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u94	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u95	Let's be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u96	Not at all if you want to pay a national care fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u97	We will have our election programme passed on to the Central Planning Bureau, but that is before the elections. I asked Mrs. Agema to look back now. We have seen that because of the investments in parental care, the PVV supported raising the AOW age...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u98	Chairman! I've already confirmed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u99	... and limiting and ultimately closing the social workshops and...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u100	Chairman! I confirmed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u101	... introducing the landlord's tax, which now leaves us with a housing shortage. Was that all worth it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u102	This was the fourth interruption, Mr. President. No. I am now going to say for the third or fourth time that raising the age of AOW was a mistake of ours and that we have reversed it. The same goes for the rents. With regard to social work provision, Rutte I continued to protect and maintain the sheltered workplace, while under Rutte II it went much further. I still see Samsom standing here on the Square talking shame about Rutte I, while under Rutte II he really put the axe in the social workshops. So, again, everyone has to make choices, but we have just made very good choices. During the previous election period, we had the greatest job growth and GDP growth, and we simply performed on a number of other things as best. You don't always have to go on chopping in care. We certainly wouldn't have. If we wanted to, the cabinet wouldn't have fallen. Mr President, are we done with the interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u103	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u104	I'll see where I left off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u105	You have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u106	I'm gonna need a few more minutes, and I'm basically gonna need one. What is the state of our country when it comes to care for the elderly? What did Prime Minister Rutte bring us? In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Rutte our nursing homes are closed and men and women of 70, 80 or 90 years old are confused and sometimes even naked on the street because of so much help being cut off. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Rutte falter, unite and pollute high-aged widows and widowers by abandoning domestic help by the towering contributions made possible by this cabinet, up to 100%. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Rutte elderly people are drugged into our nursing homes to starve, to dry up and to unite because there are too few nurses. Corruption, malnutrition and abuse: they can all be reduced to a shortage of personnel. All this happens in the Netherlands of Prime Minister Rutte, in the Netherlands of the VVD. It is a gross disgrace, for which I personally hold Prime Minister Rutte responsible. Prime Minister Rutte has turned our prosperous welfare state into an immigration country, where happiness seekers are favored: they are given everything on a plate, they are given everything, while our elders can rot. Not in my Netherlands. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Wilders, the elderly and long-term sick are given perspective again, because their care is no longer placed along the cold financial measuring bar of the VVD. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Wilders, our elderly people are treated with respect, protected, taken seriously and honored, older people are given access to a shelter again and if things get worse, there is again the safe environment of a nursing home. In the Netherlands of Prime Minister Wilders, nurses are ready every day and every night to care for our elderly with devotion, love and respect. This is what Prime Minister Wilders' Netherlands looks like. A decent Netherlands, a better Netherlands, a Netherlands that chooses its own people, a Netherlands that chooses to stop being an immigration country, because it chooses to be a country of honour and pride. A welfare state where civilization rules. Prime Minister Rutte wants to fight for premiership with Wilders, but when it comes to care for the elderly, he has no chance. I'm gonna keep my hopes up. Hope for a better Netherlands, on a more beautiful Netherlands, on a more just Netherlands. I hope all parties are serious about what they say. The wheel that's turned people in front of their eyes has gone crazy. I would like to say to my colleague in charge: make sure that all this indignation does not last until the elections, let go of the Brussels leash and not put it around your neck again. Resist those reemerging fake clouds for rising care costs. Think of all those old people. Don't let them out of your sight. Take care of them. Make sure they don't become the child of the account again, just because of that rude spot of Rutte II. They were not feared, they could not fill the Malieveld and, well, they could pay the Brussels bill. But times change. After rain comes sunshine and who keeps hope, one day can also harvest. We already had a Brexit, we are getting POTUS Trump and in March I am going for Prime Minister Wilders, because say it yourself, when it comes to care for the elderly, this country can do so much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mrs. Agema is making a flaming argument. She's already indicated what she thinks of everyone. That's nothing new, but she'll do it again. Her last reflections are about the future under Prime Minister Wilders. We'll see. Elections are coming and people are going to vote next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u108	Fortunately, yes. Still, we're still a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mrs Volp has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u110	Mrs Agema said that all the problems in the care of the elderly would be over. Can I ask her two questions? How do you think the people who work in health care now judge what you're saying? What they do is throw medication into drinks to drug the elderly and leave people in bed to their fate. How do you think this is happening? Second. When Prime Minister Wilders arrives, how does he plan to get the staff back that has fled partly because of all your negative statements about care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u111	I am not allowed to name it by Mrs Volp, but I am sure that there are hundreds of nurses behind me who say: give us those extra hands to the bed so that we can do what we do best: worry. That we don't have our hands in our hair when someone's sad or angry. That it is not decided from above that we will not get an extra colleague, but a few extra bottles of haldol to drown the place if we can no longer handle it. That's the present time in our nursing homes. We all know that the investigations prove that. You can stick your arms in your side, but we know that investigations show that a third to two thirds of the nursing home residents are drugged. I'm not making it up; it's true that this is happening in our country. I'd take those arms out of the side if I were you and I'd do something about it. In recent years, you've only been trying to destroy the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u112	I realize this is insane. Of course, I'm taking the attitude I'm assuming myself. I have just seen you adopt an attitude that I think is: if you call for cooperation, this is not the way to start. We would like to solve the problems in healthcare. Not just the problems that have arisen in the past period. I just said in my speech that I gave birth to my eldest son fourteen years ago. When I went to show it to my grandmother, she was in a room with six people with curtains in it. You can't tell me that you still see that in nursing homes. Yes, there are problems, but now to say that nurses are being forced to drug elderly people with haldol, is against their professional oath, which is against their ethical work. That's just not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mrs Volp isn't saying I'm lying, while all these studies show that a third to two thirds of those residents are being drugged? She needs to do her homework!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u114	All right, Mrs. Agema...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u115	Mrs Volp is not doing her homework and is attacking me on the policy she is responsible for. She has to tell the Secretary of State, "Come up with those investigations!" She should...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u116	Mrs Agema, Mrs Volp may respond briefly to you. Then you may respond and then Mrs Klever will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u117	I distance myself from the way in which Mrs Agema is setting up this sector. That's all I'm gonna respond to. This is the way in which I am used to debating Mrs Agema, and she is really making the wrong picture of the concern that is being expressed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mrs. Volp can't win it, so she says I'm setting up a wrong picture of care. But that is the image for which Mrs Volp has been responsible all these years, and not yours truly. Mrs Volp should count on herself to let everything go and that she is indeed responsible for the fact that in our country a third to two thirds of the nursing home residents are being drugged. That is unworthy of a civilized country like the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr. Chairman. Let us now turn to curative care. The changes in care that have been implemented since the Kunduz chord have led to a huge complex system that is constantly maintained with cutting and sticking. It has become so complicated that almost every care facility needs an army of advisors to justify what has actually been done over the past year, and that will only succeed with the necessary delay. In fact, the patients should also have these consultants, because how do you choose the right insurer, the right policy and the right hospital these days? As a patient, you are right behind schedule in 2016. Don't you get a treatment? Then you must have picked a bad policy. You gonna be on a waiting list? Then you're probably not mature enough. Don't you understand a bill? You might be paying too much of your own risk. But if care institutions with their consultants and accountants can only just understand the healthcare system, how can you still make the right choices as a patient? In four years this cabinet has provided a care system with a mess of policies, hidden waiting lists, a division and care avoidance, and the health insurance companies are the big winners. They make a profit every year and now have some 4 billion on the shelf of surplus reserves. Despite these profits and reserves, the premium will rise again next year instead of falling, even higher than the minister predicted. According to the Minister, all this is necessary to keep the care system affordable for the future, but according to the PVV Group, care for the patient is already no longer payable and the figures confirm this. In 2011, on average, the citizen lost €4.889 in healthcare costs. In 2016, this rose to €5.344. In 2011, citizens still paid €126 on average at their own risk, which increased to €240 on average in 2016. That's a double. Half of all citizens lose their entire own risk of €385 each year. The Minister felt that this was very social: anyone who was ill had to make a compulsory contribution to health care was her view. The PVV doesn't think that's social, because being sick isn't always in your control. Let us stop risking our own and not replace it with a druggie, a specialist yellow or a bed supplement, because they are always paid by patients who are sick, by people who need care. Own payments are a wrong method to slow down the use of care. After all, a general practitioner considers it necessary to refer you, so why link a sum of money to that referral? In order to reduce the risk by €100 next year, the PVV Group has already tabled an amendment to the General Financial Reviews. In my view, there is now a majority in the Chamber who wants to reduce, or even eliminate, its own risk. We can do this now. We don't have to wait for elections. We can now deal with that amendment. So let us do so and let us make it clear to this Minister that, as far as we are concerned, the sick do not have to contribute to their treatment. I was therefore greatly surprised that GroenLinks has just submitted a copy of our amendment to reduce its own risk. I find that a very strange course of action. There's an amendment. Just support that, I would like to say to GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u120	It is not a copy of Mrs Klever's amendment. We use a smaller part of the expat scheme for one's own risk. We use the other part for development cooperation. For that last point, we will be tabling an amendment to deal with the budget for development cooperation. Contrary to the PVV, we choose to devote part to the care and part to development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u121	I think that's quite a strange way of doing things. GroenLinks says it wants to eliminate its own risk altogether. There is an amendment by the PVV to reduce its own risk by a small amount of €100. In any case, we can arrange this for next year. GroenLinks, however, says: no, we want to reduce our own risk much less; we want to reduce our own risk only 50 euros. The rest of the money, which the PVV has reserved to reduce its own risk by €100, gives GroenLinks development aid. For example, you can see where the priorities of GroenLinks lie: not with the patient, but with development aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u122	It is true that we also consider development cooperation to be important. We are indeed looking wider. We are indeed looking at what else is important. That is why we have chosen this division. I understand from this that the PVV also wants to reduce its own risk by only €100 for the long term. We want to eliminate our own risk altogether, but we choose to deal with it in this way for next year. What we want to do with our own risk and, moreover, with development cooperation in the elections, where we will certainly meet each other, is very clear. Those are indeed different choices than those of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u123	It's obvious. GroenLinks opts for development aid and the PVV opts for the Dutch patient. We want to bring down our own risk for next year with €100. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. In the long term, we want to completely eliminate our own risk. The cover for this comes from development aid. GroenLinks opts for development aid. GroenLinks even lets it up a little bit. But its own risk, well, that is obviously not as important to GroenLinks as it calls out. Slowing down the use of care...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mrs. Voortman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u125	In fact, we choose to reduce the risk by €50 through this amendment. After that, we will ensure that our own risk is completely eliminated. We are also going to cover that in full, because we are going to have the Central Planning Office pass on a bill. Unfortunately, the PVV doesn't. We will ensure that our own risk will then indeed be completely eliminated and that there will be money for other things as well. Those are indeed our priorities. It is a pity that the PVV is now pretending that we are only defending development cooperation. No, it's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u126	For next year at least it is not en- and at GroenLinks, because instead of bringing the own risk from €385 to €285, as stated in the PVV amendment that we can arrange for next year already, GroenLinks chooses to bring it from €385 to €335. The reduction proposed by the PVV is therefore still €50 higher than that of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mrs Klever, you will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u128	Yes, please. Slowing down the use of care is a task for the healthcare providers rather than for the patient. Offer creates demand. The fact that treatments are getting shorter and that fewer beds are needed is a good development, but the hospital should not fill the empty rooms with all kinds of funpolies, such as a cough polish, an itch polish or even an immigrant polish. Offer creates demand. This also applies to innovative treatment methods. Innovation is good, but it should not become an end in itself. It shouldn't be about nice toys for the boys, it should be about what's good for the patient. Let us first prove how safe and effective a new method is, for example through a lock. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. The recent scandals with cryoballoons and titanium pens that can tear or snap, say enough. That's terrible for the patient and it's costing for years that are higher than the old method. Slowing down the demand for care lies with the healthcare provider and not with the patient and a form of brake fee. First of all, the PVV wants doctors to start working as an employed person. After all, the incentive to over-treatment disappears. As far as we're concerned, every graduate doctor comes on an equal footing. Self-employed doctors may be employed in stages with a maximum duration of 10 years. I am holding on to that ten-year period because it corresponds to the duration in which they can write off their goodwill in the tax return. There is therefore no need to buy out. Self-employed doctors can spend the time they had previously spent playing entrepreneurial games on the patient. As an employed person, the incentive to up-coding and shuffle with declarations will be reduced. That's a win-win situation on all sides. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. I'm gonna go on a score card. The rule "who pays, determines" does not apply to care, because citizens pay the most and determine the least. We can't determine much either, because we don't have eyes on anything. There is no idea of quality, no idea of costs and no possibility of comparing providers. The supposedly understandable health note brings little relief. Although the Minister has announced that prices will be made public gradually, if the quality is not taken into account, this will be of little use to the patient. Is a hospital more expensive because care and guidance are better there, because there are more hands on the bed or because it does more to prevent infection? Or is a hospital more expensive because it has just purchased a new robot and wants to pay back its costs, because it has had to buy off an incompetent driver for tons or because it has been fined for fraud? You want to know this kind of information as a patient and sell it at prices. Isn't it pathetic that we can only get information about hospital care from the annual ranking of the General Daily? Why doesn't the Healthcare Institute set up a scorecard for hospitals? Hospitals are already obliged to provide indicators on everything. The Healthcare Institute can make a meaningful selection for patients. The NZa can put a price tag on this. In this way, we get a reliable comparison mechanism, which is not dependent on AD methodology and the results of which are easy to find for everyone. After all, the AD list will be forgotten in a month. I call for a joint scorecard for hospitals, with price information from the NZa, with quality information from the Healthcare Institute and with monitoring information from the inspection. We don't want separate lists. Everything must be put together so that it can be assessed and compared. Not secrecy, but disclosure must become the standard. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the acute care sector, which is in great difficulty. I'm reading a few lines from last month's papers. 31 October: emergency care; the patient has become of minor importance. 30 October: sometimes we wonder if we can still offer the good care. 26 October: 33,000 people cannot get to emergency care in time. October 25th: the problem is that there are no empty beds for acute patients. Surely it cannot be the case in the Netherlands that we can no longer offer necessary first aid? Unfortunately, that is the reality. Ambulances need to talk to patients because the emergency rooms are overcrowded. Ambulances are failing or the equipment is failing. Emergency aid stations are being closed down. Human resources shortages are emerging. What is the Minister's answer to this? You want the field to figure it out on its own? Is there going to be another postponement of the new ambulance bill? How long does it leave the healthcare sector in uncertainty? When's she gonna take the lead? What actions can we expect in the short term? In the light of this problem, how does the Minister see a calamity such as a possible terrorist attack? Is emergency care prepared for that? Can the sector at the moment cope with a disaster, a crisis or multiple attacks? I understand that a national disaster care coordinator has been appointed in Belgium and England. Don't we need them either, right now? The medical aid organisations in the region are also asking for clarification: who is in charge of attacks at different locations? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u129	I have another clarifying question. Mrs Klever is right to ask whether emergency services are also prepared for emergencies. It is very important that they are. Does Mrs Klever mean that this should be the case both in the cold and in the hot phase? The cold phase is the phase in which there must be sufficient capacity and training. The warm phase is the moment when a calamity, for example an attack, actually occurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u130	Now care is part of the security regions. If something happens in a region, then there is a regional coordinator who coordinates all the healthcare institutions involved. The problem arises if, for example, there are disasters in two different places. For example, this could be a terrorist attack in two different places. We have seen abroad that the likelihood of an attack taking place in several places at the same time is considerable. Then there is no national coordinator. I think it's important that there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u131	It does touch that. GGDs also have an important role to play in this. There has been an earlier investigation into the capacity of the GGD to do that kind of business. It was then clear that there was uncertainty as to whether there was sufficient capacity in the cold phase. I found it so disappointing at the time that no research had actually been carried out into the hot phase, so to the moment when something is actually happening. That must also be considered. I have a particular interest in this because of my old field of expertise, because I, as a former military officer, know that there can be considerable differences in this area. I would like to know once again from Mrs Klever whether this is what she is referring to in her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u132	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr. Chairman. I was here a few years ago when we were discussing the budget. I started by giving an alternative definition of health. Not the absence of disease but health as the ability to adapt and conduct your own direction. There have been many developments in the field since then, but I believe that we are still looking for a way to shape that well at the moment and for a way in which we can jointly contribute to positive health care. I would like to call for that positive health guidance to be given to the patient himself to fill out what is important. It has often been here today about the patient's control in the care. Perhaps the patient attaches much more to daily functioning than, for example, to mental well-being. And how beautiful is it if we have organized and financed care so that there is room for that! I know that there are a lot of parties, regions and leading groups who like to work on this. Machteld Huber is the one who came up with that definition. D66 wants the concept of "positive health" to be further developed, with the driver Machteld Huber coming up with this definition. In this way, we can also combat these major health inequalities. The Institute of Machteld Huber is also one of the pledge-signators of the National Programme Prevention. This requires further research and development. I have tabled an amendment to that effect and I would like to hear a response. In Groningen, Nijmegen, Woerden, Arnhem and many other places are working on innovative and patient-oriented initiatives. I don't have time to name and explain all of them, but they're really good examples. Unfortunately, they are still too often a separate project. That's actually a shame. That is why I would like to propose that one region be allowed to develop and roll out these initiatives long-term, flexible and with the appropriate funding. I am thinking of a regional innovation plan in which all fine initiatives and good examples can flourish. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I am also curious as to how it now facilitates all these examples and contributes to a wider roll-out of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u134	I am very pleased with what Mrs Dijkstra has said. It talks about positive health, about control and about leading good examples. I, too, have spoken to people working on positive health, including Chantal Walg and Mrs Huber. I think that Mrs Dijkstra is making a very positive proposal, but I only wonder if that is a genuine search for whether we should try it again in the region or whether we should look at how we can bring about structural changes in the system. Is that the intention of Mrs Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u135	In the end, I want to go there; that's exactly what I want. I think it is very important that the positive health care system and the whole model that has been developed for that purpose, and which has been the subject of a lot of research, should now come up with very nice, simple tools to find out where the quality of life lies for the people who report to aid workers. That must ultimately be the basis of our health care. If you want to do that, you can't just start. I have already mentioned a few examples where it starts at the moment on a small scale, but I would like to see it dealt with more broadly. I would very much like it to happen at regional level, or at least in an area where everything is actually everything: the first line, the second line, the self-care, the one and a half line, health insurers, care professionals and care for the elderly. You're going through all the bulkheads, you're going to remove those bulkheads and you're going to see how you can properly shape care here, starting from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u136	That's really good. I spoke to Caroline Hummels, professor at TU Eindhoven, and she said that you should actually have some sort of "oil stain" approach. You don't have to trash the system at once or make all kinds of system changes, but you have to take some sort of "small oil stain" approach. She just said, "We need dangerous people." She says we need people with power and guts. Well, the minister's in there, so he's gonna be fine. But the real question is whether the health insurance companies are going along with this. Is that part of Mrs Dijkstra's question? Otherwise, everything is blocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u137	Absolutely. They must go along with this and they must have the courage to do so. You can see a health insurance company taking that role now and then. We have nice examples of this, such as hospital Bernhoven, but it also happens in other areas. In Arnhem, for example, the insurer and the care group work together to make payments based on outcome rather than transaction, a direction that we all want to go on. That is absolutely the case. I also think that the health insurance companies want nothing more, because from their role they also have the responsibility to control the costs of care and to keep care affordable for patients and clients. The more you can work together, the better that is and the more effect that has.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u138	We are not complimenting each other enough here, so I would like to compliment Mrs Dijkstra. Let us hope that our VWS minister intends to play the role of 'dangerous people'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u139	I will continue to do so, because I would like to say something more about such a region or area. Such a region or area would also lend itself to innovations in technology, robotisation and eHealth. In 2014, the Minister wrote to us what her ambitions were. Within five years, not only 80% of the chronically ill would have direct access to medication data and test results, but 75% of this group would also be able to take independent measurements. In addition, there would be the possibility of communicating with a health care professional 24 hours a day via a monitor. We are now a few years away, not five years away, and I have a simple question to the Minister: what is the state of play here? In her recent eHealth letter, I no longer see any goals and figures at all. What steps does the Minister intend to take in the next five months to get closer to that goal in the field of eHealth? In such a region, together with technology, there would also be a world to be won in terms of prevention. Let's look at obesity, for example. Strangely enough, surgery for a stomach strap is currently being compensated, but this does not apply to active programs that can prevent a stomach strap. If you are too heavy but just not heavy enough, then you have had bad luck, while there are countless examples of good, cost-effective treatments that are not reimbursed. That is why D66 proposes a three-point prevention plan. 1. Increase prevention care which has been shown to be effective. 2. Encourage insurers actively to support preventive measures and invest in "not yet" patients. 3. Provide municipalities with more tools to implement a better prevention policy. I'm asking the Secretary of State to talk about this. In doing so, I advise him to look at the Finnish model, where municipalities are benchmarked in the field of prevention. In his election programme, D66 makes one billion euros available for an innovation fund. We want a large part of it to be researched in health care. We also want to look at orphan diseases, for example. I take Huntington's disease as an example. Mrs. Volp was talking about it as well. That disease is a combination of parkinson, ALS and Alzheimer's and slowly affects your brain. At the moment, the diagnosis of Huntington's disease amounts to a death sentence, but there are other ways. Researchers now know where things go wrong and where they can intervene. A cure may seem closer than ever, but it will take another EUR 4 million. D66 wants to make it possible through an innovation plan for such a medicine to come, but when I thought about it, I came to the Minister's next question. Can't we see if we can get that $4 million by now? I would like to comment on this. In addition, D66 wants to invest some of the funding from the Innovation Fund in scientific research into dementia and in the future of personalized medicine for, for example, cancer treatment. I am going to speed up, because I see that my speaking time is almost over. At first, the cabinet seemed to have little ambition in the medical-ethical field, but by the end of the cabinet period a number of important steps are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u140	I think Mrs Dijkstra wanted to say something very important about personalized medicine. We also think that this is an important issue. I am very curious to see what point she wanted to make when she said she had so little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u141	I mentioned this subject mainly because we, as D66, want to use part of the innovation fund to further develop personalized medicine. Of course, it's expensive medicine. You have to do a lot of good research to know when you can apply personalized medicine. Mrs Bouwmeester is also familiar with the registrations needed for this. That's what I've just mentioned as a dot on the horizon. I'm not going to ask the cabinet for money right now, because I know that's not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u142	To avoid confusion, that was not my suggestion. I was just thinking, uh, I'm gonna ask around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u143	Mr. Chairman. I had started with the medical-ethical topics. Recently, we had a worthy debate about completed life. The Minister also followed D66's motion calling for the abolition of the ban on the cultivation of embryos. However, there is still much to do, take the germ path modification. Scientific committees have indicated that they no longer want an absolute ban on this because it is only in this way that we can eradicate certain serious diseases. I'd like a response from the Minister. In a Medical Ethics Review Committee, a doctor, a lawyer, an ethicist, a methodologist and someone who can represent the interests of the subject, among others, should be included in the committee, but we would also like to see a representative of the group of patients targeted by the research. Does the Minister intend to make an effort to this end? I would now like to mention an amendment. Every year there are over 1,000 new HIV infections in the Netherlands. Much can be prevented with the new medicine PrEP. That is why I tabled an amendment together with GroenLinks. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. I hope she will take part in the debate on the short-term prevention of new infections. Mr President, I will leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u144	Mr. Chairman. Budgetary treatment is the time to reflect and look forward. That is why I am debating today the decentralisations, the Long-Term Care Act, the vulnerable youth and our drug policy. Almost two years ago, the decentralisations of the new WMO and the Youth Act were implemented. Although there is a lot of work going on and there are really good initiatives being taken locally, we are not here yet. The Transition Committee on Social Domain, which must keep its finger on the wrist, reached a harsh and unmistakeable judgment in September. Not only does it damage the implementation of the different laws, but there is sometimes a lack of cooperation. Some parties do not speak each other's language either. The Transition Committee calls for a national multi-annual action programme. My group is very much in favour of this. The transition committee also proposes that there should be one Commissioner, but isn't that the job of the Secretary of State? How does he see the role of the Secretary of State in the coming years? Does he come up with a multiannual action programme, where there must of course be a balance between freedom and control by the Empire? After all, it is a decentralisation. I would also like to draw attention to a number of issues on which there is some fuss. I am referring, for example, to intensive child care. We are going to talk about this in a separate general discussion. There's also stuff about the sheltered living and the shortage of nurses. Finally, we also hear that the NZa is not happy with the separate claim to case management dementia. I would like to hear a reflection on this, because I believe that the Chamber has made it very clear that it is really important for us to regulate it in this way. Mrs Hanke Bruins Slot has drawn particular attention to this. There is a lot of discussion about the money that the municipalities would have left. There are several explanations, but I think it is important to say that I agree with what the Court of Auditors has said that the Court of Auditors is getting a sense of whether what we have intended has been achieved. The information we are getting is fragmented and I do not want to wait for a legal review. The Long-Term Care Act. It is good that the Secretary of State emphasizes the importance of care for the elderly. There is a lot of work being done on the improvement reports and that is good to see. At the same time, it is sad to note that, let us not forget that the debate on nursing homes has not been a discussion of the past few years, because that discussion has really been going on for ten or twenty years. I believe that there is not enough attention for the disabled sector and the long-term ggz. Too little has been done here. I'm kind of embarrassed about that, too. For example, the standard for general accessibility in the UN Convention......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, as a group, we have to conclude that the AMvB has so far been an empty shell. I would like to hear a response to that. The financing of transport for disabled people to and from day-to-day use is also a problem. There has been an investigation, and one of the conclusions is that the money intended for transport is now being taken out of care money. That can't be the intention. Moreover, we have been waiting a long time for the customised profile and the multi-care scheme. I am disappointed that there are no good results today from the steps we have taken in the disability sector. It's very much in the future. I'm also getting all kinds of signals... I would also like to make one comment about the long-term ggz. There would be clarity about how we deal with the people who could get into the Wlz as far as we are concerned, but there is still no clarity about that. I have tabled motions on this subject with Mrs Keijzer, but it remains unclear. I shall come back to the signals mentioned earlier. I'm getting signals that people will stay at home for longer, and not because they really want to. A very large group wants to, but there are also people who think that their own contribution in the Wlz is just too high, while the district nursing does not ask them to contribute. There is also the idea that there could be less care from the Wlz. I also hear sounds thatzzp 4 is not awarded enough. What does the Secretary of State think about these signals? And what's he gonna do about it? I have tabled a motion on family care together with Mr Krol and Mrs Dik-Faber. The result is that three investigations have been carried out from the Social Cultural Planning Bureau, but what will the Secretary of State do with the results of these three investigations? Regulatory pressure in the care sector is a major problem, and I have tabled several motions on this subject, but in practice you do not see enough of it. I come to my own contribution. It is good that the cabinet makes money available to meet a earner with a chronically ill partner. That is a nice step, but D66 would also like that for the group chronically ill without a partner. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this and to indicate the size of that group? We have also asked written questions about this. There would be an amount of about 4 million. There's got to be some way to fix that, right? I think it is important for people without partners to be included. The accumulation of their own contributions in the Wmo and the Wlz constitutes an increasing obstacle for many people. We are very much looking forward to the CBS report. Can the Secretary of State indicate what his expectation is? Does the Secretary of State see any other possibility of compensating people with chronic illness and those with disabilities for their own contribution? Can he give us a hint of the veil about his own contribution? A completely different subject are the wandering young people, or young people from youth care. They are a vulnerable group. I have submitted a plan on this matter before. We're talking about some 140,000 young people falling a bit between shore and ship. There is a group of young people who are keen to receive training, but they often have many creditors and, of course, their permanent burden. Often they have no income or low income. D66 considers it important that these young people have a chance to get out of debt and dive into the books. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a break from debt collection as a coordinating director? I know that his colleague is working on a six-month proposal, but it seems to us to be a good thing that these vulnerable young people do not suffer from these debts during the period they are studying and can invest in their studies. After all, if you graduate, you have a better chance of getting into the labour market. We think it is right that they should be supported in this. Will the Secretary of State accept this suggestion from me, so that these young people really get a chance? Young people who come from youth care often cannot use parents or family to lean on. I'm worried about their income position. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate that? I do not need to go into the subject of cannabis oil, because I have already done so in an interrupting debate with Mrs Volp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u145	You're also through the time you indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u146	That's right. However, I think I need something more. The point of medical cannabis I can do very quickly. There has been an investigation among clients and they say that there are actually too few species, namely only five. Is the Minister prepared to broaden the offer? This discussion has been going on for years. In addition, I think it is important to hear the Minister on this matter and one health insurance provider will reimburse it and the other will not. Finally, high-tech surrogacy. If two men want to take advantage of this opportunity, they can't. In reply to questions from D66, the Minister states that this can legally be done. However, it is not offered. Does she want to make it hard to make this technique possible for men's couples? It is available for heterocouples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, I had a conversation with Chiara. She was just 17 when her son Damian was born and that was quite a complicated time. She wanted to keep her baby, but she didn't have any money and she didn't know how to finish school. In the first years she got some support, but she also had to pick out a lot of herself. Fortunately Chiara and her son Damian are doing well now and there is contact with the father again. Chiara is now helping to educate young people in schools to prevent teenage pregnancy. We hear from aid organisations about women like Chiara. These are young women who want to choose their child, but who feel forced to break off their pregnancy because of school and lack of finances. These are practical matters that we can solve together. We also see that young mothers too often fall between shores and ships, for example because there is no suitable accommodation or because it takes months for them to get their finances in order through the municipality. Work, school, care and income are all different counters at the municipality and then there is the care for the baby. What is the Secretary of State going to do to achieve better comprehensive help for these young mothers? Last week, on the eve of the Week of Life, the Christian Union, together with the VBOK (Association for the Protection of the Unborn Child), launched the teenage mother fund. That fund actually jumps into the hole that the government drops. We want to offer these girls and their children the helping hand, both financially and practically. When you're so young unintentionally pregnant, your world turns upside down. It is important that then there is a place where you can go for a listening ear and choice help. This Chamber has decided by a majority that Siriz and Fiom will receive extra money for this, with Siriz also offering emergency assistance and shelter. It is nice that the cabinet has decided to make this money available in the coming years, but it is earmarked until 2018. However, the target group is too small to leave this entirely to municipalities. As far as we are concerned, Siriz's knowledge and skills must not be put at risk by compulsive decentralisation. I would like to hear a response to this and consider a motion or amendment on this point. The Minister and I have often spoken about the NIPT, the Non Invasive Prenatal Test. I am pleased to read in the Minister's letter that she insists on quality and objective counselling. Research shows that the average duration of a counseling interview is nine minutes and that women experience that there is insufficient opportunity for ethical reflection and assistance in decision-making within this time frame. There is also room for improvement in the training of health professionals. That is why we have released ECU 1 million in Amendment No 1 in order to improve counseling at the NIPT. Breast-feeding is good for mother and child. More than 80% of women choose to breast-feed after childbirth. That is, of course, very good news. However, we can see that many women will soon stop doing so again. There are many reasons for this, but at least not the reason why mothers do not want to breast-feed anymore. With proper guidance, breast-feeding really becomes a choice of the woman, rather than the result of bottlenecks that can be solved. Nursing care could be made available via the consultation office or a fee from the basic package. Would the Minister like to submit an advisory request to the Healthcare Institute for this purpose? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. The Christian Union considers it important that our young people grow up healthy. The fact that they grow up healthy is not self-evident. It is sad to note that the next generation is growing up less healthy and that the ambition of the cabinet does not go beyond bending rather than beating over this trend. The Christian Union likes to see a smoke-free generation grow up. Last year, the House of Representatives adopted a motion by Mrs Volp and me on a covenant for a displayban. To be honest, I do see a few well-meant but also half-hearted initiatives. In the meantime, there are no real measures. Both the first and the second deadline for the covenant were not met. I hope that not only my patience, but also the patience of the Secretary of State is running out. I'd love to hear a reaction. The Christian Union prefers that the sale of smoke products takes place only from tobacco specialty shops. Why not take all this step now? When it comes to young people's health, we are also concerned about the amount of sneak sugar in products. The time of no commitment is now over. We will certainly discuss this further in the general discussion on prevention. We are currently working on an amendment to improve care for young people with diabetes. Sometimes young people are victims of loverboys, honor-related violence or international trafficking in human beings. Fier is an organisation with specialist knowledge who takes care of these traumatized young people. In the case of decentralisation, arrangements have been made to ensure that this specialist aid does not disappear. This concerns a budget of €500,000 for individual guidance. This money would be earmarked, but is now divided among the center municipalities of women's shelter. This happened against the terms. Does the Secretary of State still want to mark this money in the December circular? Or, if he does not, will he come up with a temporary solution for 2017, so that the aid can be continued? Suicide prevention is more necessary than ever. Unfortunately, we see figures that are not falling, but rising. There has been an increase of 3% to 7% in recent years. Extra money has already been made available. We're happy about that. But the Christian Union believes that more is needed for, among other things, the development of the Suicide Prevention Action Network and for suicide prevention in the Caribbean Netherlands. That is why, together with my colleague Joel Voordewind, I tabled an amendment to that effect. Organisations such as the Salvation Army are the alarm clock about the care of people with confused behavior, with addiction and/or mental problems. The systems exclude these people. The protocoled reality is not in line with their concern. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? Early alerting is important, but there is not enough outpatient capacity. Not everywhere, care in the district is available 24 hours a day 7 days a week. And there are waiting lists. The General Political Reviews adopted a motion by the Christian Union on this subject with a broad signature of the Chamber. Can the Minister indicate how she has worked on the implementation of this motion? The Landelijk Platform GGz advocates a plan of action in the field of consularisation, in which health insurers, municipalities and healthcare providers, under the direction of the Empire, work together to build up the outpatient assistance. Will the Minister pick up this glove? The ggz is willing to contribute to caring for people with confused behavior, but its funding is a bottleneck. In order to have 24-hour care available in the neighbourhoods 7 days a week, no performance fee is required, but availability funding. The ggz comes to a different math than the minister. It doesn't take 30 million, it takes 140 million. What will the Minister do with this appeal? People with confused behavior don't belong in the police cell, they deserve care. It is therefore understandable that the police should withdraw. But where can people report it now? Is the Minister prepared to create a national telephone number for this? The ratification of the UN Disability Convention was a historic moment. We've been waiting a long time. But it is good that people with disabilities now feel recognized and can participate fully in our society. Together with Otwin van Dijk, our former colleague, and Linda Voortman, I have tabled an amendment to make accessibility the norm. This is now being developed in an AMvB, on which an internet consultation has taken place. The cabinet received almost 600 responses. I can summarize them with one of the writers: "Too noncommittal, too little, too little specific, too slow." This cannot be ignored by the cabinet. Does the Secretary of State pick up this glove and ensure that accessibility is now the norm? Is he still talking to the alliance partners, as suggested earlier by VWS, to hit a new AMvB? With 600 responses, he'll have enough input. I am considering a motion on this point. Joining in our society must be commonplace. The work of carers is invaluable and deserves our support. Research shows that one in seven carers is heavily burdened. Alzheimer's Netherlands has also done research, which remains the same. Case management and daily spending are important conditions for maintaining care for a partner with dementia. Since decentralisation, day-to-day spending has been cut, while municipalities have at the same time been left with money on the Wmo. Here lies first and foremost a responsibility for municipal councils. I ask the Secretary of State, under his system of responsibility, to ensure that sufficient daily spending is made available. I also ask him to ensure that carers are always reminded of the possibility of case management dementia. Half the carers do not, and that cannot be the intention. In the meantime, reports are constantly coming in to the Signal team about insufficient expertise of health insurers and the falling apart of dementia care chains. All things considered, the Christian Union remains of the opinion that a separate payment title for case management dementia is necessary, in accordance with the adopted Chamber Motion of colleague Bruins Slot. Attention to questions of life and meaning is increasingly seen as luxury. In many places this concern is reduced. I am therefore very pleased with my adopted motion, together with my colleague Mona Keijzer, to explicitly give mental care a place in the Quality Framework nursing home care. It is precisely in the final phase of human life that spiritual care is important. The same applies to older people who still live at home. They don't always have a place to knock. Following research by ZonMw on the meaning of meaning in the care and advice of the Schnabel Committee, I therefore advocate a form of district pastorate. Following the example of the district nurses and the district psychologist, it is important that mental care also gets a place in the neighbourhoods. Would the Secretary of State like to examine the possibilities for this? It is also important that mental care is better anchored in care training. Fortunately, I see that there are also good initiatives with local voluntary networks. The Expertise network of elderly people and life questions does a good job for that. I am going to retable my amendment, which I tabled last year, but which was unfortunately voted down. Because who knows, with today's knowledge, it will get support. Last week, the Secretary of State sent a comprehensive letter on palliative care to the Chamber. I welcome speeding up the indication if care needs to be scaled up. But palliative care remains a mess of regulations where the administrative burden is high. The Secretary of State acknowledges that there is a lot of profit to be made here. What's he gonna do in concrete terms? In particular, I ask him to make it easier for carers to arrange respite care. There is also an advice on how to achieve structural funding for mental caregivers. Now the use of spiritual guidance is not enough, because it is at the expense of other care. The Secretary of State goes back to a 2010 investigation. Is he willing, with the Association of spiritual caregivers, to do further research into the appreciation of spiritual and spiritual care in the palliative phase? This is probably the last VWS budget of these directors. I do not always agree with them, but I would like to thank them for their commitment in recent years. I look forward to answering my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u148	Mr. Chairman. This is the last VWS budget of this State Secretary and this Minister under the Rutte II cabinet. So it's time to take stock. I remember their very first budget in November 2012. At that time, the Secretary of State said something that I still very much agree with, namely that we need to work on a valuable future for vulnerable people. He pointed out that care in institutions should be improved and that care for people who want to stay at home should be better organised. Unfortunately, however, little has been done so far. Care in institutions has not improved and care at home has been cut down considerably. This way, you absolutely don't encourage people to stay home any longer. GroenLinks sees a society in which the people in need of care are central. Self-direction should be paramount and care costs should not be an obstacle. Freedom of choice is a summary of this. It's up to you to decide what suits you and what works for you. The Minister has largely achieved her goals. It has concluded many care agreements and under its leadership market forces have continued. Unfortunately, I have to say that I went further, because I am not aware of any adverse effects. Care has become less accessible, there has been a proliferation of health insurance, the patient has become a subordinate participant in the care chain and his or her privacy has come under pressure in the context of efforts to combat fraud. With the latter, I refer to the inspection of health insurance companies in patient files. I want to talk about three issues. Firstly, the accessibility of care. It is linked to affordability, market forces and freedom of choice. I would like special attention to be paid to people who have just moved to the Netherlands. Secondly, the provision of long-term care for the chronically ill, the disabled and the elderly. I will focus specifically on care for the elderly and the problem of over-pressure for the caregivers and the effects of decentralisation. Thirdly, because this is the Week of Life, I will deal with the situation of women who are unwantedly pregnant, because here too, GroenLinks believes that free choice is under pressure. First of all, the accessibility of care. Accessibility requires two things: affordability and freedom of choice. Some households spend up to €4,000 more on healthcare costs than five years ago. According to Nibud's research, care costs have even doubled for people who need a lot of care. As a result, they must conclude payment arrangements. Worst-case scenario, they're gonna avoid care. Until 2013, chronically ill and disabled persons received compensation from the CAK. With this, they were able to compensate for part of the expensive own risk. Unfortunately, that has been abolished. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, its own risk really has to be reduced and preferably even completely removed from 2017. The own risk is something that is under the magnifying glass for many parties. There are parties who say it has to go down. There are those who say that it must be completely abolished. My group proposes that we take a first step now. That is why I have an amendment to that effect. Market operation is interaction between customer and seller.... in the healthcare sector these parties are called patient and healthcare provider... with a broker as an intermediary if you are looking for a house. A real real estate agent doesn't decide where to live or when. It's up to you. You're not bound by one real estate agent's offer. You can compare price and quality yourself and postpone your purchase until it suits you. How different is it in health care? The health insurance company now plays for real estate agent, but one who decides what is bought and how much and the patient has to wait and see when he can receive care. The patient is tied to the same insurer for a whole year, and you can't let him out of the hospital until later. Even health insurers do not get insight into the cost of treatment by medical specialists. In university and a few other hospitals medical specialists are employed. GroenLinks would like it to be anchored for every medical specialist, so that the rather opaque qualities of specialists can no longer lead to overclaims and unnecessary treatments. GroenLinks sees it as a necessity to have health insurers engaged in the provision of sensible care in consultation with medical specialists. That will not happen if medical specialists like free entrepreneurs stand outside the hospital, on their own islands. Only if they are truly part of a hospital organisation, in other words in employment, can the much needed coherence be created in the highly fragmented healthcare supply of hospitals. Only then can we really respond to the patient's real needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u149	There are parties who do believe that care would be greatly improved if all specialists were to go into paid employment. Some also think that these differences may not be that big at all. We can differ on that, but I would like to comment on something Mrs Voortman said. It is true that all doctors in university medical centres are employed and that, in general, the cost of hospital treatment is not very transparent. But can Mrs Voortman indicate in which university medical centres in this country the costs of care are transparent and more transparent than in a non-academic hospital?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u150	I have been concerned for a long time with the transparency of healthcare costs. And indeed, they are also not transparent in university hospitals. However, I think that if these people are employed, it will be easy to make these costs transparent. Then you know what the cost of labour is for the medical specialist, and that, together with the other costs, allows you to see exactly what the total cost is. Now there's that extra shot of society or the medical-specialist company in between. This makes it less likely that it will become transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u151	If that were true, wouldn't the university medical centers in this country be completely transparent? They don't have that problem with those guys. If it's up to Mrs Voortman, these centres can now tell us what their treatments cost. I'm very curious about that, because that would be interesting. Then we can also see whether they make the price sharper or higher than the non-academic hospitals. But there is no evidence to support Mrs Voortman's argument that if everyone goes into employment, the costs of care will be transparent at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u152	Hospitals can already be more transparent about their care costs. We have also recently discussed this in Question Time. But they don't do that now because they don't have to. The Open State Foundation is now also suing about this. So it's not happening right now. It can be done anyway, and the process of making it transparent is facilitated when medical specialists come into employment. I will continue my speech. I am therefore considering tabling a motion on this, because market forces have led to people now being trapped in an offer of more than 1,000 combinations of basic insurance and supplementary insurance. However, freedom of choice is not the same as having a lot of choice. Even this minister has indicated that it has become too grim. What's she gonna do about this? In the debate on completed life, she indicated that the cabinet was not decommissioned, so proposals could still be made. That is possible on this subject, isn't it? Last year, our group presented a note proposing simplification. The number of policies should be limited to one refund policy and one kind of policy per health insurance provider. We don't want any more budget policies. Information on policies must be clear and comparable. A group for whom access to care is particularly difficult are partners and children of asylum seekers with a residence status. They can accelerate their entry into family reunification, but no longer receive interpretation fees when they need care. It was abolished under the previous cabinet. The language barrier makes contact with healthcare providers difficult, making care more time-consuming and therefore more expensive. If this does not provide adequate care in time, this can also lead to additional costs. The Health Inspectorate therefore states that an interpreter is essential in order to be able to provide good care to people who do not speak enough Dutch. Unfortunately, the conversation between VWS and the National Family Doctors Association about an interpretation fee for healthcare providers providing care to status holders has failed. My group, together with Mrs Dijkstra, is therefore tabling an amendment aimed at re-refunding interpreters in the care of status holders. In this respect, I have also worked with other health spokesmen. Mr Kuzu and Mrs Dik-Faber also agree with this amendment. Learning Dutch is of course important, but people who haven't had the chance to learn Dutch, shouldn't hinder their contact with healthcare professionals. I'm moving on to long-term care. Our own parents, our uncles and aunts are the elders of today. Those are the people who have taken care of us for years. They deserve our good care now, and we hope to have them in our vicinity, in their own home or in a nursing home, but in a nursing home that isn't blacklisted, right? Good care for the elderly costs money, and as far as GroenLinks is concerned, there must be a two-track policy: other management, which gives carers more time and space to take care of, and more investment so that quality goes up. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The workload on healthcare providers is enormous: few staff and a lot of administrative work. This takes time to give the elderly, for example, that simple but oh so important cup of coffee. The workload also leads to an unworthy kind of military discipline for our country, such as fixed rules and times for showering and eating. GroenLinks therefore wants 100,000 healthcare workers to be added instead of the 65,000 who have been cut off in recent years. How does the Secretary of State look back on the past period? Does he share the conclusion that the reduction in the number of caregivers has been detrimental to employment and also to home care? How does he look at the situation of household care? Decentralisation is something my party is in favour of in principle. We did vote against the 2015 Wmo because the pace of events was too reckless. We are now also seeing its unbalanced effects. There are municipalities that are out of money for youth care, for example, while other municipalities are left with too much money, money that could actually have been well spent on care. Some municipalities seem to be doing well, others don't. But are the first ones doing really well and the last one bad, or isn't the distribution model right? Before concluding that municipalities, by definition, have enough money for their care tasks, is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the causes of so much money remaining in 2015? Have any municipalities been squeezing? Have municipalities made their own contributions far too high? Haven't a lot of people called on care they could have gotten? Is the distribution model okay? In short, many questions. Is the Cabinet prepared to investigate this? It is only when this is clear that it can really be verified whether the government cuts in recent years do not need to be called into question. As Mrs Dik-Faber said, this is the Week of Life. GroenLinks loves life. Whether you're male or female, gay or straight, old or young, with or without limitation, self-determination to make your own choices is an important pillar when it comes to quality of life. However, the Week of Life is not an initiative that celebrates this diversity, but an initiative to put women who face the difficult choice of how to deal with an unwanted pregnancy even more in the fucking corner. The impression is given that Dutch women have opted for abortion in the last few years and that they find the choice for this as easy as the choice for the colour of their car. That's when it's exactly the other way around. These women have become more and more difficult in recent years. Recent research by Rutgers shows that the taboo on abortion has increased. Women have the idea that the choice is wrong, something you can't talk to your environment about. GroenLinks considers it important to cherish the right to self-determination again. It seems that we have paid too little attention to it in recent years and have perhaps taken it for granted, with the result that we feel taboo about abortion. Neutral choice aid such as Fiom offers is crucial, but of the million that was released by an amendment I made a few years ago, only half a million more has been included in this budget. Why'd you bring that down? How does the Minister intend to prevent the taboo feeling surrounding abortion? I cannot imagine that she is okay with the fact that parties claiming that abortion has become a commonplace should be given less rebuttal or that women need less support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u153	The Christian Union and GroenLinks differ in their position on abortion. I think this is in the tension between the mother's right to self-determination and the child's right to live. We can now have a whole debate on this, but I would like to say to Mrs Voortman that I see that it is a difficult choice for women to carry out their pregnancy or not. It is a difficult decision and I want to give them the very best help and support. Now I've heard at a conference that women's counseling is out of order. Independent research shows that counseling is too short and that choice aid is not aimed at ethical reflection and so on. Would GroenLinks, despite all the differences between our parties, be inclined to watch with us how we can improve counseling for women?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u154	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. We think it is very important for people to have neutral choice support. If Mrs Dik-Faber talks about this, she will find me at her side. However, I do think the following is important. If I understand correctly, the money that Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment provides for counseling is at the expense of the NIP test itself. I don't think that's a good idea, because I'm okay with the NIP test coming. If we can look at a different coverage, I would certainly like to look at this amendment, because nine minutes of counseling is indeed very little. I'd say that's a good idea, but it shouldn't be at the expense of the NIP test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u155	We do indeed have the counseling in the width of unintended pregnancies and we have the counseling in women who do want to be pregnant, but then faced with the situation that their child has a limitation. I have tabled an amendment on that last point. I can see that a sum of 26 million has been released to introduce the NIPT. Only one million of these are used to improve the counselling around them. I hear that there is a real lack of information, just around the NIPT. Once again, I urge GroenLinks to think with us about the broad counseling as well as about the specific counseling to see how we can improve it. If GroenLinks sees other funding options in the budget, I'm happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u156	We are talking about a million dollars. I happen to have been looking for a variety of different jars for the amendment on interpretation for status holders. Then at one point I had a situation with three different items of 1 million. I have finally chosen one that I would like to discuss with a number of people. I imagine we could use one of the other posts for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u157	Mr. Chairman. I can perfectly agree with the themes that came along in the end of Mrs Voortman's contribution. We are now in the middle of the Week of Life. Yesterday, therefore, 100 women lit up 30,000 lights here during the Hour of Light on the Square. These lights symbolised the 30,000 unborn children's lives that are terminated every year in the Netherlands by abortion. They also symbolized the 30,000 women who experienced such a great need that they chose to have an abortion. It is precisely because of this need that we submitted an own-initiative paper yesterday to improve their support for an unintended pregnancy. We would like to continue the debate in the Chamber on this. Good support for unintentionally pregnant women is, after all, something that can connect all parties in the House of Representatives, no matter how fundamentally different the issue of abortion is thought about. I'd like to have a paper copy of this note circulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u158	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u159	One of the topics discussed in the note is the financing of specialized elective guidance such as Siriz and Fiom. In 2013, with a wide-ranging amendment supported by the Chamber, we ensured that funding was given an impetus. Now the question is how things are going after 2017. The amount of the amendment has been retained. The concrete implementation has not yet been fully established. In any case, we hope that existing knowledge and expertise can be preserved and that there is an eye for that. In the own-initiative paper, we propose that in future the WAZ grant should provide personal support for the choice guidance. We would like to hear an initial response from the govern ment to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u160	Mr Van der Staaij began with the need that women can experience and how difficult women can have it if they are unwantedly pregnant. Then I am curious what he thinks of the radio commercial that was made in the framework of the Week of Life. I assume that was done with the approval of the SGP. It says that the choice whether you go on holiday to France or another country is actually something like the choice for abortion or not. That comparison is made in the commercial. I should like to ask Mr Van der Staaij what he thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u161	I think the commercial is excellent, precisely because it makes people think about this subject. That's what you want to accomplish. When you ask people, "how many pregnancies end up in an abortion; is that 1 in 7, is that 1 in 70, or is that 1 in 700?', Then it's striking that a lot of people think it's about 1 in 700, while the real answer is: 1 in 7. That's what comes up in that commercial. It is therefore an appeal to us to be aware of the problems surrounding this issue. As far as I am concerned, it is precisely an encouragement to consider whether solutions other than abortion are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u162	The commercial clearly indicates that 1 in 7 pregnancies end in an abortion. That is not true; we can also discuss it. Then there is a very clear statement: do not allow abortion to become normal. There is the suggestion that because it would be this number, which is not the case, it is normally found and that it is the same as the choice for your holiday destination or for the color of your car. I'm very sorry about that. I am thinking of those women who have been in this difficult situation. They hear how much that is played down in this commercial. I regret that Mr Van der Staaij does not see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mrs Voortman is now beginning to say that it is the same as a colour car and everything, but it is not the intention of this commercial to provoke that suggestion. It is the factual information about how often something occurs. The call is indeed: do not let it become normal. Take those words literally. If you are based on this large number and if you do not want to make any efforts to bring it down and actually reduce the number of emergencies, then you can contribute to that. I sometimes hear that from some of the aid workers. They say: yes, but it's like a late birth control, isn't it? Then you'll see it as a normal means of ending a pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr Van der Staaij suggests that it is perfectly normal for women to opt for abortion. I think that Mr Van der Staaij completely underestimates the fact that this is a very difficult decision for women and the circumstances in which they arrive at this decision. For D66 it is much more important that these women are accompanied when they have to make that decision. If they choose to do so, they must be properly supervised. I would also like Mr Van der Staaij to tell us where he is going, because the SGP election programme says that the SGP wants to ban abortion again. My question to Mr Van der Staaij is: what would be the consequences of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u165	Is there any underestimation of what this means to a woman? No, I can absolutely say that this is not the case in any way. We have talked to a lot of people and they have also indicated how they have experienced their need at that time. Of many women who have had abortion themselves, we have also heard that it was often said from the environment: but abortion is a normal way to end a pregnancy. So pressure from the surrounding area is often felt. So that message is not aimed at those women, but at many others who pretend that this is a normal ending. Then I come to the question of where the SGP is going with this. That is true; we have never been secretive about the fact that we do not approve of this abortion law. That's what we're gonna keep finding, and we're gonna keep saying it. At the same time, it would be a pity if this were to stop the discussion, because even if you do base yourself on this law and see that there must be an inevitable emergency, it is worth considering whether these housing problems or those financial problems can be solved in a different way, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u166	We will undoubtedly discuss the SGP own-initiative paper. I can imagine what it says, because in the end, of course, the SGP wants to get women off the idea that they would come to the decision to have an abortion. For us, this is a real choice of women themselves, and you should not make that choice even more difficult through all kinds of ethical and normative questions. If I understand Mr Van der Staaij correctly, the environment must be raised and not the women themselves raised. That is a completely different side of the story, but the SGP does indeed give the impression with the commercial that women pretend this is the same as choosing a holiday to France.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u167	Once again, on that last point, I have never taken the view that women who choose to do so do so all of a sudden. We do have a great deal of criticism of the choice-making process and elements of environmental pressure, and we also have many other proposals in this area that are addressed in the own-initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u168	I heard Mr Van der Staaij say, "Don't let it get normal." Does he disqualify women who have had an abortion, then as "abnormal"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u169	Let us have this debate carefully. How do you get there, also just linguistically, that these women wouldn't be normal? We are talking about abortion, about that act. That's not a normal medical procedure. I have had several debates with abortion doctors on this subject. They indicated that they too look at this and that this is not just a normal medical procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u170	I heard Mr Van der Staaij say that this is not normal. The opposite of "unnormal" is "abnormal." If you go through this, an unusual act, as a woman, what consequence do you attach to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u171	The consequence of this is that you would like to find other solutions to the need for an unintended pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u172	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u173	Yeah, rounding it up. This is a bit strange, because the SGP's programme of principle states that the SGP is for the death penalty, i.e. for the loss of life. But when a woman commits an abortion, it is said: do not let that become normal. I call that a double measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u174	That's another very different discussion. I don't know if we should have that discussion right now. This may be more appropriate to the treatment of the justice budget, but it is a question of protecting innocent lives. That's what drives us here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u175	You can go on for a long time, but the own-initiative paper also provides sufficient room for discussion. Otherwise, we will not be able to complete this budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u176	I've committed exactly one interruption today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u177	D66 has committed more, but do your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u178	Well, then there have been two or three interruptions of D66. So I really think we have the right to ask another question. I also think that is very important, because the SGP talks about accompaniment to unwanted pregnancies, but when there is a meeting in the Lower House about sexual education in schools and about how little knowledge there is actually left with young girls and boys, the SGP is not there. Then I wonder what the SGP really thinks is more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u179	Indeed, we could not be at that meeting with Goedele Liekens. My colleague had an education meeting, but let's not get complicated about it, as if it were so exceptional that a party is not present at a particular event. There are 100,000 activities here, in which parties are not always present. The idea of that meeting was not such that we said that we had to be there, but the subject matter is incredibly important to me. That is why I have a lot of discussions on this subject. I would also like to come up with proposals in the second term to support certain initiatives that call for better support and more attention to sexuality in education, not only for the technical side but also for the relational side, which is also reflected in the own-initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u180	I'd still like to respond to that absence. I am not saying that for nothing, because it is very striking that the party that always makes such a huge point of abortion, unwanted pregnancies and the ethical questions that need to be asked and which people have to face is not present if this subject is not dealt with very openly in a way that the SGP likes in the preventive sphere. I am very sorry, because you would have a very good entrance to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u181	There are plenty of meetings where we are present. It is true that we will not participate in every D66 party on this subject. We think it is important that this issue should be discussed openly, but not only with regard to the technical side, but also with regard to the relational side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u182	All right, proceed now. Let us try to respond a little less personally to each other. I say this in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u183	I'll think about it, Mr. Chairman. I don't know exactly what I've done, but I'll reflect on that. The Minister will soon commission ZonMw for the evaluation of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act. We would welcome an exchange of views on the design of the research on the basis of that draft letter. If there is such a possibility, I ask the Minister. The SGP has already expressed concerns about the broad introduction of the NIP test in the previous debates. I also support Mr Dik-Faber's amendment. She says: let there be an eye for counseling, and let there be an extra investment in it. During a working visit to the LUMC I was impressed by the many potential possibilities of prenatal medicine. An example of this is a 3D printer with which an open back can already be printed in the womb. My question is whether the Minister sees opportunities to continue to support and stimulate this kind of innovative development in prenatal medicine. The Secretary of State has sent a nice letter to the House of Representatives about the future of palliative care. There is no doubt that we are going to discuss this further, but the SGP already wants to draw attention to the failure to fund mental care providers in the first line. As insurance benefits are defined in function-oriented terms, insurers do not have to conclude contracts with specialised mental care providers. Because they don't have to, they don't do it all the time. What is the Secretary of State doing about this problem? People in the Netherlands sometimes know better what euthanasia and completed life are than what palliative care means. The coalition From Meaning to the End demands attention for the broad reflection on the end of life. The SGP welcomes the fact that the cabinet also mentions the valuable work of this coalition in the various letters on completed life and palliative care, but the funding is difficult. The coalition has prepared a plan that will cost €750,000 a year in the coming years, but the cabinet only makes €300,000 available for one year. Large-scale public campaigns are not possible. We would therefore like to hear whether the cabinet is prepared to increase this amount on a multiannual basis. An important part of combating the rise in healthcare costs is preventing overtreatment. In 2013, we asked the Minister what opportunities she saw for reducing overtreatment. At that time, the Minister indicated that he was going to work with it. In the meantime we are already a few years further. The SGP is curious to see where we stand now. Does the directives now include the prevention of overtreatment? Are all financial incentives well adjusted, so that treatment and talking are rewarded equally? How does the Minister respond to the signals that the SGP receives from doctors, among others, namely that they need clear political statements about limits to the cost of individual treatments? By the way, I personally find it very difficult to discuss these extremely expensive medicines, which can sometimes result in only a very limited extra life span. I note that the doctors say that the ball is in politics and that politics says that doctors have an important role in it. Health economist Johan Polder also recently called for those difficult questions not to be shunned. I am therefore looking forward to another reflection by the Minister on this point. To sum up, we would like to hear what the efforts have been, but we would also like to have a look at what more measures are needed. This health economist, too, gave a bit of the signal: we can now, fortunately, see that we have managed to put some brakes on the cost of care during this period, but the cold is not yet out of the sky. In view of the further growth that is still foreseen in the coming period, we will really need to continue to think about what more is needed for the manageability of these costs in the future. For people and families who need care based on different laws, care by stacking their own contributions can become priceless. For example, there is a family whose mother is admitted to a nursing home because of a brain hemorrhage. Father is doing his utmost to keep his head above water financially. This is not easy with a few growing teenagers in high school and studying anyway, but the accumulation of one's own risk and contributions to the Wmo and the Wlz makes it completely impossible. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine whether an income-dependent ceiling on own contributions can be set per household, taking into account, for example, the number of children growing up? I come to a point that several colleagues have already mentioned: the further development of the General Measure of Governance, which is part of the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There have been a lot of reactions to that. We have heard that the target group, the people concerned, have been troubled by the level of ambition and its lack of practicality. I wonder how the Secretary of State responds to this criticism. Does he see possibilities to give it more concrete hands and feet, to get more pressure on the boiler in the further development of this AMvB? I think we all came across the signs of work visits and e-mails, and even today it has been mentioned several times: there are concerns among the caregivers about the workload they experience and the consequences that this workload sometimes has, and about the inadequate human size in, for example, caring for the dementia of the elderly. I believe that, in the long term, personal funding can make an important contribution to solving the problem, as it encourages providers to listen even better to people's wishes. The result will undoubtedly be that more hands will be put to bed, otherwise providers will be punished. But that's a long-term perspective. What are the short-term possibilities for the Secretary of State to encourage or make further improvements in this area? I come to my final point: care for the family. Carers feel, to a large extent, under-supported, as always is shown by research after research. We find it particularly regrettable that despite the fact that the position of the caregiver has received a great deal of attention, which in practice is not yet sufficiently clear. I believe that in the Wmo, for example, there are also very important rights for carers, but that in practice, in fact, their development and implementation are often even leaner. I had an interrupting debate earlier with Mrs Keijzer. Is the Secretary of State prepared to raise awareness of the rights of carers and to encourage municipalities to make real work of supporting carers and facilitating respite care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u184	Madam President. What a blessing it would be if I could stand here and say: people, how is the care of the elderly in the Netherlands going very well. Let me make it clear that I do not want to fail in any way the good will of the many people working in the care of the elderly. Many people in the nursing home sector do good work, but they do it with limited resources. They commit themselves with heart and soul. But the degrading messages we've been getting over and over again for years, recently again about Careyn, the dogs don't like bread from that. In those places there is something wrong with the control, because why can't it be done in one nursing home and in the other? Try it yourself: from 6:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. not to go to the bathroom for 15 hours. And in case it doesn't work, incontinence material is used. This makes caring elderly people sicker and more dependent than they need to be. Of course, you have to make arrangements with residents, but you can't put this into a care plan in this way. A horrible comparison: even prisoners are more entitled to toilet visit. 50PLUS asks the Secretary of State about the actions and powers of the intervention team deployed at Careyn. In our adopted motion, full powers have been requested when it comes to business operations. I'd like to get a reaction to that. 50PLUS is sick of it. When did it end? This Secretary of State makes the same mistake over and over again. First he makes a cut and then after that, when many alarm bells have gone off, there will be a quality stroke in the form of plaster sticking, improvement programs and hunting teams. This happened at the Wmo 2015, at the pgb's and again at the Long-Term Care Act. All this should have been the other way around: first a quality stroke with all the associated conditions and then a look at the finances. But the coalition agreement, with the cuts laid down in it, preceded it. The sanctimonious attitude of some of the parties to this issue is also very much against my heart. First of all say that it can all be a bit less and when things go wrong first shout how awfully bad it is all. The manifesto of Hugo Breast and Carin Gaemers is taken from my heart. They rightly argue that care for the elderly should not be politicised. Because, as they say, all parties actually want the same thing: a high-quality, loving care for the elderly. So I would like to make a call: from now on, let us take all the noses in the same direction and work constructively together to take care of our elderly. As a result, 50PLUS calls for attention to staffing. We have recently discussed this in the context of the occupation standard. The report that according to the Labour Market Care and Well-being research programme, a deficit of no less than 5,700 HBO nurses is expected for care of the elderly is worrying, even now that it seems to attract something. Despite all the programmes to bring this to the attention of the public in a positive way, it is not a good idea. That's not so crazy when you look at the negative media coverage. Immediate commitment is needed, because for future-proof care for the elderly, these nurses are indispensable. You didn't train a nurse in one day. Is the Minister prepared to focus on additional action to encourage HBO nurses to opt for care for the elderly? Does the Secretary of State know how many volunteers are employed in the care sector and on what scale are still being displaced from paid employment? If not, is he willing to investigate this? The Secretary of State knows that the policy freedom of municipalities in the Wmo 2015 50PLUS is a thorn in the eye. The many examples of legal inequality are clearly in our minds. For this reason, 50PLUS has opted for a basic municipal package in its election programme which includes issues such as domestic aid, daily spending and care support. For example, everyone in the base has the right to the same support in the same circumstances. And that's how it's supposed to be. In the past year, municipalities have spent no less than 1.2 billion less on social support and youth care than they have received in budget. On the other hand, they spent 400 million too much for the Participation Act. There are, of course, explanations: it is a transitional year in which municipalities could not properly estimate their expenditure; budgets were published very late; the allocation key of the budget to be transferred. All in all, however, underspending is not acceptable. Think of all those people who have lost their domestic help or are no longer eligible for daily spending. So there was money for that and then this is very acidic. How does the Secretary of State judge the position of Alderman Koster from Leeuwarden that the key is wrong? Does the Secretary of State agree with the statement that municipalities separate part of their budget as savings instead of spending it on care? This is understandable, with the forthcoming further austerity. And to think that some municipalities have calculated the maximum own contribution. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to include the relationship between these two points in an investigation? At what time can the Chamber expect more information? As always, 50PLUS requires attention to the position of carers. Many of them are still overloaded. In January of this year, this Chamber adopted a 50PLUS motion in which it asked for the information of municipalities to be improved to carers. The Secretary of State has indicated in a letter that he is doing so. However, it is not clear how he does that. I have the same question on the motion on specific support for older carers. I'd like to hear a reaction to this. The healthcare system is in need of renewal. The power and profit of health insurers cannot be reconciled with the public, human character of care. We want a new system. We have had enough of market forces. We want a new system in which the overhead has been reduced to an acceptable minimum and the unnecessary rules have been removed: a'sickness fund 2.0' in which the own risk will be reduced as far as possible. Basic dental and physiotherapy without an idiotic treatment index are part of this. Health insurance companies then only offer supplementary insurance. We are thus creating a system in which the funds available are used as efficiently as possible. We therefore support the Minister in her fight against the high prices of medicines. As is well known, 50PLUS supports the National Health Fund initiative. 50PLUS welcomes the fact that the Ministry has focused more on prevention in recent years. Unfortunately, prevention in the elderly is still getting rid of it. Where there are programmes aimed at young people, and rightly so, such as 'young people at healthy weight', they are not for the elderly. The Secretary of State was right when he wrote on March 25 that "the" elder does not exist. However, "the" youngster does not exist either. In the same letter, he indicated that there is a multitude of prevention activities for the elderly, but that it is unfocused. Additional funding for effective interventions targeting older people would be made available through Article 1 of the budget. Under what heading can we find it? How can we check whether the number of interventions is actually increasing? When is intervention actually effective? The Secretary of State also announced a kind of prevention alliance, which he would develop further together with the elderly unions. How's that going? In view of its previous conclusions, is it not more sensible to draw up a more targeted national prevention note for older people? 50PLUS also advocates a national vaccination programme for the elderly, including vaccination against shingles and pneumonia. We are considering an amendment to increase resources for prevention. In any case, it is good that the government is creating a subsidy scheme for prevention coalitions. But this one is not very spacious: less than 3 million a year. What did the Minister base this amount on? In our view, this is far too little urgency. How do we get a guarantee that risk groups will be dealt with in a proportionate way? Who decides? Why was it chosen that the health insurance company is the leading party? After all, health insurers are mainly concerned with medical prevention. This prevention is much better suited to municipalities, which are already aware of the needs of their inhabitants from the Wmo. Why is there no leadership in the municipalities? I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister. We are considering a motion on this point. In addition, 50PLUS considers it very important that healthy behaviour is further encouraged by increasing sales tax on unhealthy foods and beverages, by targeted agreements with the food industry to reduce added sugar and salt by mandatory measures if necessary, and by campaigns that highlight the importance of a healthy lifestyle. This includes exercise, not least for the elderly. Smoking and drinking also need to be reduced, because prevention, in addition to benefits for health and well-being, also saves a lot of healthcare costs. Prosperity diseases do indirectly reduce the cost of care. There's still a lot to win there. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Another important point is loneliness. The figures vary, but about 40% of the 50-plussers feel lonely and over 50% of the 75-plussers. In The Hague alone, 113 lonely funerals took place during the first six months of this year. How many would that be in the whole country? So this is a huge problem. Together with the Coalition Erbij and the VNG, VWS has carried out the action plan entitled Intensifying and anchoring approach loneliness over the last two years. That's very good. 50PLUS asks the Secretary of State to look back on the progress made and whether the objectives have been achieved. Is the focus on combating loneliness sufficiently anchored? Isn't this something that needs a lasting impulse? The number of older people in society is increasing and loneliness is increasing with age. The fight against loneliness is so important for health and well-being. This avoids many problems and is therefore a means of prevention which cannot be underestimated. It saves costs for care or for social support, but also in anticipation of the possible legislation on completed life this is important. 50PLUS therefore calls for a continuation of the action plan in some form, with corresponding financial resources. What are the Secretary of State's thoughts on this? We are also considering tabling an amendment on this point. SafetyNL expects more and more elderly people to die of a fall or its consequences in the coming years. That's what the NOS reported last week. People live longer at home, even with a condition. We therefore need to make a strong effort to prevent falls. In addition, alerting people is an excellent means of making the elderly and chronically ill feel much safer in their own homes. Think about how much care costs can be avoided with this. For this reason, 50PLUS believes that personal alarms including subscription fees, if prescribed by the GP, should always be fully reimbursed. If the doctor thinks this is necessary, it will be reimbursed. Period. After all, the general practitioner is the key to caring for vulnerable elderly people at home. Let him or her decide what's necessary. In doing so, 50PLUS once again advocates placing the medication assessment outside its own risk. Some insurers who see the importance and potential health benefits of this have already done so, but we still hope that the Minister will also take our side. While the IGZ is increasingly enforcing the medication assessment, can the Minister also report to us on progress in 2016? In reply to the factual question put by 50PLUS on this point, the Minister indicated that the impact on the budget would most likely be marginal, since those who were the first to be eligible for this would be aware of their own risk. First, the Minister uses the word "probably." Is my observation that it is based purely on an assumption and not on facts? Secondly, it is a misconception, because for this group you can also place the general practitioner within the risk. The medication assessment should, by definition, be excluded from its own risk, precisely because of its preventive nature. It is much more a matter of principle and that the user's own risk is already perfect does not matter. By the way, 50PLUS advocates abolishing the commissioning costs. People don't understand this and that creates the extra incomprehension and that when you have to involve people in controlling the cost of care. More and more elderly people end up in emergency care, for example due to accidents. Due to additional geriatric problems many of them cannot simply return home. The flow stagnates which threatens to close the emergency services, with all the dangerous consequences. This situation has been going on for some time, partly under the influence of the longer-stay policy of this VVD/PvdA government. Nevertheless, it seems to be only getting worse. The Dutch Association of Hospitals has already sounded the alarm clock about this. The Minister created, about a year ago, a kind of link for the mediation of older people, but what effect does this have? Is the Minister prepared to engage with the Dutch Association of Hospitals and Health Insurance Companies in the Netherlands and, if necessary, to make additional budget available in order to achieve results soon? Finally, on behalf of our senators, I have a very technical question. The level of the income-related contribution Health Insurance Act is determined by ministerial regulation. This is done by amending Article 5.4 in the Health Insurance Scheme without any standing procedure. Is the Minister prepared to promote the amendment of the Health Insurance Act by 2018 so that in future the Minister can only change the existing band between the reduced and the normal rate by law or by General Measure of Management?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u185	I did not want to break into Mr Krol's speech and let him finish it first. I therefore only now come back to a point he touched earlier in his speech. We know Mr Krol as someone who says on behalf of 50PLUS every time to stand up for the interests of people with a small pension. He is concerned about their purchasing power, but at the same time I hear Mr Krol say here that he supports the National Health Fund. Last year the SP came up with a first taste of these plans and it showed that people with an income of €20,000 would have to pay more than 50% tax because of these plans. How does Mr Krol feel about that? I ask him that question and I would also like an answer from Mr Krol himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u186	Mr President, on a point of order! Mr Rutte is doing something he did this morning. Last year's plan has nothing to do with the demands of the National Health Insurance Fund! This is because there is no income-dependent care premium. This scaremongering is allowed by the VVD, but it really has nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u187	I think I just asked a very relevant question on the basis of the plan The concern is ours, on which the National Health Fund is clearly based. The National Health Fund is partly still shrouded in vagueness; it has yet to be passed on. Anyway, let's just take that as a base. How does Mr Krol view a tax burden of more than 50% for people with an income of around €20,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u188	I'm glad the question is being asked. 50PLUS hasn't been connected to the National Health Fund for that long. These are concerns for us, but we have seen that these plans have now been adapted. We will always ensure that this group, people with only AOW or people with AOW and a small supplementary pension, is spared anyway. I would like the VVD to have done the same with other measures taken in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u189	We take that very seriously. In my view, we also have care allowances for people on very low incomes, and we should, above all, retain them in this way. Mr Krol says that the plans have been modified. I would like to see them, but this could mean that we are going to burden people with high incomes even more. Last year it was already the case that according to the plan The concern of us people with an income of around €20,000 went to pay more than 50% tax. People with an income of around €55,000 and more, say elderly people with a good pension, saw their tax burden rise to 67%. That really is a lot of tax, and that hurts people a lot; that must be said once in a while. How does Mr Krol look at that? Or does he also have a magical formula to solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u190	I don't have any magic formulas, but I don't look at young and old when it comes to this kind of business. I look at this: what are the strongest shoulders and who can bear the most burdens? If that's the group of people who make very good money, they can contribute a few extra cents as far as I'm concerned. Also people with a very large pension are able to contribute a little more. But it's not about young or old, but it's about people's income position. That's what we need to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u191	I don't think I've been talking about young and old, but I've really been talking about income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u192	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u193	This really is a final question, Mr President. I almost haven't interrupted yet. I would really like to have that space; that seems very reasonable. Mrs Leijten has certainly interrupted me on certain points up to four times. I really want to use this space, because I think it's very relevant. Let's be clear, I've been talking about income, too. So Mr Krol thinks that you can tax an income of €55,000 very heavily and he is not afraid of a tax burden of 67%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u194	You didn't hear me say that. I am just saying to you: in these times, when you see that the distance between workers and those who are no longer working is increasing, the difference has now risen to 30%, you may also ask for a slightly higher contribution from the workers. You ask them for the workers themselves in case they don't work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u195	Last year's plan was about taxing all healthcare costs and is not comparable to the National Health Fund. At www.nationalezorgfonds.nl people can join but they also find frequently asked questions. There they can simply read that no alternative to the premium levy is currently being proposed. The fear-making of the VVD has nothing to do with the initiative to deprive the health insurance companies of their power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u196	Good. So much for this point. Then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u197	I do not want to put salt on every snail, but did I hear correctly that Mr Krol asked a question "on behalf of our senators"? I'd say the senators should ask their questions in their own chambers, right? Here we are working on the debate in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u198	I am very pleased with this remark, because I also doubted whether I would ask the question. The senators have already asked him, but they're still waiting for an answer. Like the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we are a small group. So if I can help the senators, I'll do it with all kinds of pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u199	Good. But from now on you have the emphasis on the House of Representatives; you have every right to do so. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu of the Kuzu/Öztürk Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u200	Mr. Chairman. For four years the couple Schippers and Van Rijn now swing the scepter at the ministry of VWS. They came up with a wonderful work plan: from systems to people. That was beautiful and hopeful. Would these two rulers really manage to change what a lot of people in the Netherlands hate: the system in care, the fragmentation, the divisions, the market thinking, reasoning in euros, production, stopwatch care and so on? The reality is painful, not only for these two rulers and their parties, but also for our country. Has care really gotten better? We can best ask the people themselves, the people who get care and their families. We should listen to them carefully. I don't want to pretend that it's just trouble and torment, because research by TNS NIPO in the opinion of citizens about the care shows that Dutch people are generally satisfied with their care. 78% says to be satisfied. But at the same time they also indicate loud and clear that they have four great frustrations. I'll go through those four frustrations. I want a response from the Minister and/or the Secretary of State to each of these frustrations. Frustration number one is the increasing cost to the patient, such as its own contribution and its own risk. The "own risk frustration" was the most commonly referred to. 10% of people care to avoid because of the high own risk. That's staggering. When people put their health at risk, it turns against them in the long run. We therefore believe that our own risk should be eliminated. Frustration number two are the high profits and power of the health insurance companies. This "care insurers frustration" was mentioned by 43% of people. We believe that the profits of health insurers should be skimmed and that they should not be redirected to unnecessarily higher figures. Away with market thinking and away with the monopoly behavior of the high lords in chalk stripe suits and luxurious offices! In addition, there must be a quality incentive for health insurers. The public contribution to the Health Insurance Act should be made 80% dependent on quality outcomes in the care sector. Frustration number three is the high health insurance premium. This "premier frustration" was mentioned by 41% of people. Too often care is seen only as a cost and too little as a return. More than 1 million people work in healthcare and great work is being done, but it can still be saved in the places where it is just. Think, for example, of tackling care fraud, which, according to PwC, amounts to EUR 2.7 billion a year. This alone provides an annual discount of €200 per contributor. In addition, let's tackle the waste. Let us look at the costs of care, both the hourly rates and the total cost of care. Too many healthcare providers and health insurance companies have the idea that care is something you have to make a profit on. As far as we are concerned, healthcare providers and health insurers should not become profit machines. Large pharmaceutical companies need to be dealt with. The government could negotiate price and volume agreements for expensive medicines. Frustration number four is not enough staff, the "negligent frustration." This is particularly the case in care for the elderly. The number of 80-plussers will continue to increase in the coming years, but 37 000 people have been fired from care and nursing homes in recent years. That's asking for trouble. This week there was news that older people are increasingly knocking on hospital emergency aid because they have nowhere else to go. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked a number of justified questions about this, and I am happy to endorse that. Family members of the elderly also notice it in practice; therefore we would like to draw attention to the ten-point manifesto of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers. What does the Secretary of State actually think of this manifesto? Does he see possibilities to run it, or at least run a pilot with it? In order to stimulate him, we have tabled an amendment on this subject, which will be circulated later in the day or tomorrow. DENK finds the core idea of the manifesto very strong. The starting point of care for the elderly should not be money, but the question of care for the elderly. There must be at least two care workers on a group of eight elderly people, so that when the caregiver is busy with someone else can intervene if something goes wrong with one of the other patients. So much for the four frustrations and the answer to the question of what we want to do about this. The core of our plea is that we should listen to the people who get care and their families. In the paper reality of the civil service and the consultancy, there is still some scepticism about this. People in need of care would not be able to properly assess their own care. But research shows that that's an unjustified bias. For years, different quality indicators in healthcare have been discussed and research has shown that there is certainly a link with, for example, objective mortality rates. Healthcare providers who are poorly assessed by patients have higher mortality rates. Listening to the needy, listening to the citizens and listening to the families pays off. We can't say it enough. Last year I made a point about cultural sensitivity in care. The government and the majority in the Chamber have embraced this idea. For that I am grateful to my colleagues and to these rulers. In the context of cultural sensitivity, I would like to draw attention to the following. People in need of care with a Turkish or Moroccan background are relatively less often in need of home care. Almost always care is in the hands of one female relative. As a result, it is often overloaded. Almost half of the general practitioners who did not refer a Turkish or Moroccan patient to home care regret this afterward. The general practitioners think that home care would have relieved the caregiver and that the care of these people would have been better. Family doctors and home care workers see language and culture barriers as the cause of poor home care use. In addition to the patient, their preference for care by their own family is the most important barrier. That is why I would like to devote the last sentence of my speech to what Mrs Voortman has said about the interpretation fee, which we are happy to endorse. The interpretation fee should be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-5.u201	We have come to the end of the first term from the Chamber. We'll continue at 10:15 tomorrow morning. Then the rulers will answer.
