ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u1	I would like to welcome the representatives in the Chamber, the lady in office, the guests in the public gallery, the official support and anyone who follows this programme through other channels. There have been five speakers for this AO. Their speaking time shall be two minutes. Given the time allocated to dealing with this issue, it is a matter of twenty minutes, I suggest that we try to hold back, not when it comes to emotions but when it comes to motions. No, even in that area we do not have to hold back, but we do when it comes to interruptions! I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Elias of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Seven million drones a year are estimated to be going over the counter in the United States. Translated to our country, it's also about huge numbers. Drones offer many opportunities, including for hobbyists and for the creative and agricultural sector. I understood that our king was visiting a farmer today who looked with a drone at where his crops stood. If I've seen it correctly, the photo that was in the Volkskrant this morning from the bridge that was placed in Alphen was also taken with a drone. So that's fine, but there are also threats, especially with regard to security and privacy. It is up to us to ensure that the rules are properly applied. That will be an ongoing process, I'm afraid. At the request of my group, the Secretary of State has already greatly relaxed the regulations on the professional use of light drones, for which I am grateful. However, in the case of recreational use, the VVD Group still has serious concerns, even after the Secretary of State has announced further measures. For my group, one thing is clear: safety on the ground and in the air must always be at the forefront. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas drones offer many innovative opportunities, but in the case of careless use they can also lead to significant and unacceptable risks to aviation safety;]] [[noting that the vast majority of near-accidents between drones and passenger aircraft are due to recreational users of drones;]] [[noting that the proposed changes to the regulation for recreational drone pilots do not sufficiently eliminate these risks;]] [[calls on the Government, very soon and in close consultation with the drone and aviation sector, to develop further requirements for recreational drone users, paying particular attention to a responsible maximum weight, improving the use of enforcement capacity and matching responsibilities between police and ILT, increasing the (administrative fine and) penalty for incidents involving drones and providing for identification and technical security capabilities in a European context, such as an electronic fence around an airport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Elias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u3	Mr President, may I make one more comment, although I am on my time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u4	You may conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u5	I have another question about privacy. What does the government do when someone hangs a drone with a camera over your house to take unwanted photos and thus violate privacy, or a drone measuring heat activity and then planning a break-in? Are the current legal possibilities sufficient? If so, will this be addressed in enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u6	Mr. Chairman. When the VVD talks about privacy, D66 is immediately alert. We're talking about drones today. Drones offer huge opportunities for business and innovation. We also see that drones are accompanied by dangers to aviation, especially when it comes to recreational use. The incidents and so-called near collisions are increasing. Today it came out that a KLM pilot recently spotted a drone at record height, namely at no less than 5 kilometers altitude. According to many people, it is not the question whether, but when an accident occurs. D66 strongly supports the responsible use of drones. In order to ensure that this is done, I shall table the following two motions. The first is about a recording system for drones. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government does not wish to prejudice European regulations in respect of the registration of drones;]] [[noting that countries such as the United States, Denmark and Ireland already have a registration system;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward within six months with a plan for the registration of drones, excluding toy drones (up to 1 kg with a range of 10 metres),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u7	The second motion concerns information material on the sale of drones. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the greatest danger of drones comes not from the commercial but from the recreational drone user;]] [[Whereas awareness is enhanced when the consumer is informed by the public authorities about the risks and the rules in force when buying a drone;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the Dutch Food and Consumer Authority, to reach an agreement with manufacturers and retailers as soon as possible to provide information material for the sale of drones,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u8	Mr. Chairman. The CDA doesn't want to be a hobby killer or a leisure killer. Just in order to maintain that hobby, we need to make a few arrangements. In order for government and business to reap more benefits from drones, we should not make it impossible for professionals to do their job, to carry out their profession. I urge the cabinet to explore the possibilities and innovation of drones. We certainly shouldn't block these things. That's why I'm filing the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas companies using drones for inspections, for example, are confronted with many obstructive requirements which are disproportionate to the non-commercial drone user;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of reducing current rules for drone use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT), the police and the Royal Marechaussee can enforce against improper use of drones;]] [[calls on the Government to use an enforcement plan to indicate how effective enforcement can be exercised and how this relates to the available capabilities of the ILT, the police and the Royal Marechaussee and the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that drones for commercial use should already be registered and that registration of drones should preferably take place without significant administrative burden;]] [[Whereas it is essential for the enforcement and detection of incidents that a drone can be traced back to an owner or user;]] [[Whereas at European level EASA Basic Regulation already includes the requirement for registration;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, in consultation with Europe, the possibilities for a system for registering drones with minimum administrative burdens and informing the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-334]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-335]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-336]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u9	Mr. Chairman. I don't want to file a motion. I've known this Secretary of State for quite some time and I know she's always constructive. I therefore simply have a request to the Secretary of State without taking the form of a motion. The request concerns the following. The PVV is in a bit of a split. We don't want to take people's pleasure and neither does the Secretary of State. Because you have a drone for relatively little money and it gives a lot of people a lot of fun. We don't want to take that away from people. Safety is above all, let us be clear, but I would ask that the professional operators be treated differently than the Bart Smitkliegers, as Mr Van Helvert did. In addition, we all lack a bit of knowledge about drones; I am very honest about that. It's the first time I've had to say it in ten years, but I can't quite figure out what to do. Now it also turns out that the LVNL, the air traffic control, and the ILT, the Inspection Environment and Transport, are not yet very good communication about this and that all this is still in its infancy. I also understand that LVNL cannot carry out certain tests with drones in connection with capacity problems. We all know that, and we can't blame the Secretary of State because it's being worked on. But my request to the Secretary of State is to involve, for example, Mr Rik Bijl, who is the COO of Euro Drone Inspections. That man is in different facets of the entire drone world. He doesn't seem to be able to pass on the knowledge. All this seems to be very difficult. This is the only thing I would like to ask the Secretary of State: can the gentleman be involved in a consultation? Is the Secretary of State himself or one of her officials prepared to go into conclave with that gentleman so that he can convey certain opinions he has given me as a member of the States General? 'Cause I've learned a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has taken measures that appeal to us. A drone shall not fly higher than 50 metres for recreational use, shall not be more than 100 metres from the driver and shall be used at least 15 kilometres from the airport. That looks good. But if Mr.Graus goes to drones at a large electronics group before 10 p.m. tonight to increase his knowledge of drones, he will have the DJI Phantom 3 4K for the small amount of €900 in the morning. For €900 it is just delivered and with that you can go up to 6,000 meters and you have a range of 1,200 meters. How does this sale relate to the measures announced by the Secretary of State? Are we going to see people get arrested? Are we going to register them? Are we gonna build in chips? There is tension between regulation on the one hand and advertising on the other hand to have such a thing in the house tomorrow. There's the inconvenience that everyone in this house has. After all, everyone puts safety first. One of the issues we are concerned with is that we must wait at least two years for EU legislation. Many of us have seen how that went with the blind spot mirror. We wanted to intervene nationally and we waited and waited, when we all knew that it was wise to install that thing on trucks as soon as possible. Meanwhile, while we had to wait for European regulation, the accidents continued. That can't be the case in this case. The question is what the Secretary of State will do at European level to speed this up. Are there any additional measures, in addition to those already announced, that we can take at national level? D66 asked for registration, as happens in a number of countries. Should we add that? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Another question is what will happen to test programs. Much has been tested with the impact of birds, but the impact of drones has hardly been tested. What is happening in that area? Finally, I would like to make a very brief motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there have been several near-accidents between drones and passenger aircraft around Schiphol;]] [[noting that drones can easily be refused from certain areas, such as airports, by means of geofencing;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself to ensuring that geofencing is part of the European production requirements of drones,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31936-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u11	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to answer some questions and appreciate the motions. I propose that Members of Parliament, if they so wish, only ask questions about the motions they themselves have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u12	Mr. Chairman. I do not know at all whether I want to make use of it, but if you put it so generally, I have to object to it. I think it is necessary to ask the Secretary of State's opinion on a motion tabled by someone else in order to prepare a good opinion for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u13	It appears to me that this is being shared more widely. Fine. Then I'll add myself to that. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u14	Mr. Chairman. I think I very much agree with a large part of the Chamber: there are many developments in the field of innovative applications of drones, and it is necessary to bring the regulations, which are often behind reality, into line with them. On the one hand, drones are used professionally. Mr Elias gave an example from agriculture, where drones are used to practice precision farming. It is indeed very useful to use this type of equipment in the use of plant protection products. On the other hand, we can see that the recreational use of drones in particular may cause problems in the area of air traffic safety and that concern is increasing. That is why we in the Netherlands have already developed and are constantly taking steps in this area, in anticipation of European legislation. As Mr Elias rightly pointed out, with the introduction of the Mini Drones Scheme, we have put in place an enlightened regime for professional users so that this professional market can continue to grow and because it must be possible to do the work in an administratively simpler way. That is in line with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fisher, which has been adopted by this Chamber. I have announced that regulations will be tightened for recreational users. These proposals contain four elements. I refer to the tightening up of the air traffic regime and the adaptation of the Model Fly Scheme. The latter will come to this Chamber in the autumn. Basically it means that one may be less high and less far et cetera. Furthermore, I call it better communicating about the regulation. There will be an intensive public information campaign. In addition, enforcement is stepped up. This was agreed in consultation with the Ministry of V and J, which plays an important role in this. By the way, I am consulting with the Minister on increasing penalties in the event of incidents involving drones. We also use technical tools such as geofencing, which actually create a kind of fence around the airport of Schiphol, for example. The industry has now received the right coordinates from us. It has been promised that it will be applied in advance of European legislation in the Netherlands. I'm very happy about that. When discussing Mr Monasch's motion, I shall go into that further. So you can see that industry is prepared to take responsibility for this. Moreover, legislation is being looked at at the same time at European level. Research must also be carried out. Mr Graus rightly said that we do not know a lot of things for sure yet. What is the effect of a collision with a drone, depending on its weight? This is now being investigated by EASA. The results of this study are likely to be available by the end of this year. I would like to put a small footnote in this debate: when you come up with more detailed rules, you need to have the burden of proof in order. It's necessary. I shall now proceed to give an opinion on the motions that have been tabled. Then we can see a little further how I look at the various proposals put forward by the Chamber in order to tighten up the rules, particularly for recreational use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u15	I am going to go through a kind of drone-like move to get an answer to the text on the Telegraph page at 6.30 p.m.: Mr Elias is calling for a ban on individuals on drones weighing more than five kilos. Does something like this make sense if you don't know to what extent the weight of a drone affects the damage that is ultimately caused?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u16	In fact, I would like to comment on Mr Elias' motion, which leaves a little more room for manoeuvre. It seems to me to be a good thing in itself to do what he asks, namely to explore what else needs to be tightened up. You will also understand that I do appreciate the fact that EASA's investigation is there to serve as a burden of proof for a proposal if we really want to ban further, for example in the area of recreational drone use, and in doing so we want to reflect the weight of a drone, including in the regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u17	There are a lot of recreational users who may have certain expectations of what is communicated. If I understand correctly, it is not currently being discussed, nor is it being interpreted as in the motion that has now been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u18	Maybe I can just put the interpretation of the motion in my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u19	That seems to me to be a good idea, but it is preceded by an interruption by Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u20	My interruption concerns a general point from what I have not yet heard from the Secretary of State. We are also dependent on European regulation. I have quoted the example of the terrifyingly long waiting for the blind-angle mirror. Everyone knew it had to come and that it could save lives. Can the Secretary of State indicate what kind of regulation we cannot introduce because we have to wait for 'Brussels'? And how long do we have to wait for any additional legislation at national level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u21	We are a bad example of this, because we are just ahead of European legislation. So I do not feel bothered at the moment. I know, for example, that registration at European level is better than proposals to do so as a country alone or with a single other country. You said something about that yourself. Nevertheless, I can say straight away in response to your motion that a number of things, particularly in the area of product requirements, must be done at European level. I can't force a geofencing system right now. However, I have called on the producers to take ahead of European legislation in advance. They do, but in the end a product requirement for the type of chip, for example, must be mandatory in a drone European. That is where the limitation lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u22	Following this example, how long should we wait before it is implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u23	With the parties selling drones in the Netherlands, I have already made agreements on a voluntary basis and in anticipation of regulations. The good news is that we are not going to wait for that. You are formally right that European legislation, which will undoubtedly come later, makes it compulsory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u24	The Secretary of State will proceed with the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u25	Yes. By the way, I understand that European legislation is expected to take effect by 2018. Again, we are not waiting for that. Mr Elias called on the cabinet, through his motion, to develop enhanced requirements for recreational drone users in close consultation with the drone and aviation sector, while paying attention to a responsible maximum weight, improving the use of enforcement capacity, matching responsibilities and reviewing the administrative penalty and the European requirement for identification and technical security. I have just mentioned some of the limitations that play a role here. On balance, I think that what I am asked to do by means of the motion can be taken up by myself. I would point out that, of course, good agreements have been reached on enforcement capacity. I shall return to that in a moment at the Van Helvert motion. Now, for example, there is a discussion going on about increasing the penalty rate. At European level, we are indeed looking at identification and security options. I am prepared to discuss with the sector how to look at the types of drones in recreational use. However, I cannot attach any obligation to results to this. If this motion were adopted, we would not have arranged for recreational drones that weigh more than an x-number of kilograms to be never used again. I would like to explore the measure, but in the long term, and this year, I will need that EASA investigation. After all, Mr Elias understands that the burden of proof must be provided. All things considered, I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u26	So judge the Chamber. Could that lead to the adoption of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u27	No, I wouldn't want to do that. I may be able to do the research requested, but I would like to see what that research will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u28	That is clear: judge Chamber on the first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u29	I do have a question about that. It's nice that the Secretary of State is going to work on all those points. I myself did not mention hard numbers for kilos and so on; so I am not responsible for reporting them on sites either. But it is obvious that the outcome of such an investigation will at least be that the weight should be reduced for private use. I take it the Secretary of State can agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u30	No, and that's why I'm not taking over the motion. I want to check this out. I'm open to that, but I don't know yet. So you know more than I do now. The motion in part No. 332 asks the government to come forward with a plan for registration within six months, and Mrs Belhaj also makes an exception. Contrary to what she suggested, I did not say that I would not want to look at this at all. In fact, in my letter to the Chamber, I pointed out that a number of countries, for example Denmark, already have some sort of registration system, even though that is a light system, and that we are of course prepared to focus on it when it comes to whether it might be something for the Netherlands. That is just a little less far-reaching than saying that there should be a plan within six months, period. I therefore propose that this motion be held and that we consider what this orientation will achieve. We will do it, and not for nothing. If Mrs Belhaj does not want that and really tells me that there must be a plan, then I must advise against this motion. But perhaps Mrs. Belhaj is inclined to hold her motion in the mean time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u31	This raises the question of whether Mrs Belhaj wishes to hold her motion. She's showing that she's gonna look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u32	The next motion by Mrs Belhaj, which was tabled in part No. 333, calls on the Government, in cooperation with the NVWA, to reach an agreement with manufacturers and retailers as soon as possible, with a view to providing information material for the sale of drones. Actually, material has been made available from our department before, which is also included with the drones that are sold. If Mrs Belhaj appreciates the fact that this is recorded in a covenant form, my assessment is that the producers would also have no problem with it. I'm quite willing to explore the possibility of making arrangements that way. It also seems appropriate to me that people who buy a drone should be given a 'good' package leaflet between quotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u33	This leads to the appreciation: "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u34	Yes. I'm not taking over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u35	The previous motion raised precisely the problem we were discussing at the beginning of this debate. Perhaps I really missed it, but now that the second motion is not being held, I do not think the Secretary of State has given an explicit opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u36	The advice was, "Keep it going"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u37	I told him I'd advise against the motion. That was very clear. I'd like to say it again. If the motion in part No. 332 is not apprehended, I must advise against the motion. I can't just live up to what I'm asking for. I only recommend things I can do. In the Van Helvert motion to item No. 334 states that consideration should be given to the possibility of reducing the current rules for the use of drones in operation. My reasoning is that we have just done so in accordance with Mrs Visser's motion. I believe that this regulation has now been put before the Chamber. This means that we have indeed come to a relief for the regime for professional use. In that sense, therefore, this motion is superfluous. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Unfortunately, I have no choice but to give the same opinion on the motion on item No. 335 by Mr Van Helvert. Yeah, it's important to maintain it properly. There is no difference of opinion on this, and we have no sign of discussion on this. However, I think that the energy of the services can be better maintained than in writing another new plan. I hope the author does not blame me. I see this motion as superfluous and dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u38	I hear the Secretary of State say she doesn't like the services behind the typewriter to make a plan. I totally understand that. The point is that we are all asking for clear enforcement, although a great deal needs to be maintained. This cabinet has made a lot of cuts in justice. When it comes to terrorism, we always need enforcement. That is why the House wishes to make it clear that it is not possible for people to be taken from the fight against terrorism and then to check and look up drones. Or maybe you do! That's what I mean by a plan. That doesn't have to be a book, but I want to know where enforcement is being removed, where it comes in and how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u39	At the moment, I have the impression that the cooperation between the ILT and the aviation police is going well. In particular, there is the pragmatic part of enforcement. There is still some discussion going on about the level of punishment, because we want to see if we can add to it. It seems to me that there really is no reason to think that what Mr Van Helvert is suggesting is on the agenda. Those are also two very different specialties. I think it is right that we should just support the dedicated police team, including the police in North Holland, to do their job. This subject, of course, plays especially around Schiphol. I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u40	Enough. The motion in part No. 335 is therefore not recommended. Then we'll be ready for the motion in part no. 336.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u41	In the Van Helvert motion to item No. 336 the government is invited to examine, in consultation with Europe, the possibilities for a system of recording drones with minimum administrative burdens and to inform the Chamber thereof. This motion goes a little bit less than D66's. I'm willing to do that investigation. After all, we are already going to look in two countries. Of course, steps will also have to be taken at European level in this area. I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u42	Without wanting to take her over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u43	Yes. I am going to do it on my own, but it is a suggestion from Mr Van Helvert. Also the motion in part No. I leave Mr Monasch's 337 to the House's judgment. I very much agree with Mr Monasch that geofencing itself should also be part of the European production requirements imposed on drones. I do not want to take over the motion because I think it is a good thing for Parliament to give its opinion on it. I have strategic reasons for that. Then, with that motion in the back pocket, I can enter into the conversation in Europe with extra strength. There's still a few loose questions. First of all, Mr Graus's. No, I won't forget him. He asked if I could get in touch with Mr Bijl. It is, of course, up to the sector to decide who is being put forward in the consultations with me, but I am prepared to enter into that conversation or to ask one of my people to enter into the conversation with him. So that is what I am saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u44	I thank the Secretary of State for her commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u45	Then I come to Mr Elias' question about how we deal with the violation of privacy when unwanted pictures are taken above someone's house. Two things are important here. First of all, that's the unwanted character of the recording, because it's not allowed and you don't want it. So it's important that people report it, too. That's what it starts with. Secondly, it is, of course, also an issue of aviation safety. It is not allowed to fly above contiguous buildings. We can act against this, and that is what is happening in practice. If a criminal offence has indeed been committed, a fine may also be imposed. In any case, it is important that there should be a report. That is an issue in this case anyway: you are talking about incidents or near incidents, but the majority of what we have been through so far are reports. I think it is important to continue to name this nuance, despite the need to take all the measures that the Chamber would like to propose. The last question was from Mr Monasch, who asked whether drones could be tested. A number of decisions have been made for the operation of unmanned aviation systems, which take place in Flevoland, near Geleen and Werkendam, and in my beloved Twente.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u46	The Secretary of State thus came to the end of her speech. There is another question from Mrs Belhaj. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u47	There is one thing I am not quite clear about in relation to the motion that the Secretary of State says she is afraid to promise within six months. She asked me to hold that motion, perhaps. How long would I have to hold that motion? In relation to the Van Helvert motion in part No. 336 I do not understand the comparison made by the Secretary of State. This is precisely why D66 wants to speed up and not wait until 2018 until the Netherlands takes its own steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u48	I'm not asking you to wait until 2018. That is not what Mr Van Helvert's motion is asking me to do either. I think that this motion is ahead of something I have already announced, namely research, including those countries that are already registering independently, and see if it is possible to come up with a minimum form of registration. This could possibly be done separately from Europe. That's how I read the Van Helvert motion, but you already know the outcome. There is the difference between Mr Van Helvert's motion and your motion. I would like to keep the outcome open, but I do want to do the research and I have already started doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u49	That means that the appreciation by the State Secretary of the motion in part No. 332 remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u50	That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u51	Hold on and otherwise advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u52	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-16.u53	Thank you very much for your reply. This brings us to the end of the debate on this subject.
