ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	In addition to the members of the House of Representatives, I welcome again the special delegates appointed by the States of Aruba and the States of Saint Martin, who have taken their seats in our midst. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister responsible for Aruba, Mr Accounting, who has taken his seat in trade union K, as well as his staff, Mrs John and Mr Kock, who have taken their place in the chair. Let me give you a few practical messages. Since it concerns the treatment of a state law, the authorised minister and the special delegates have the right to speak. I have drawn up a list of speakers on which the Dutch Members of Parliament and the Members of Aruba will take the floor alternately. Mr Herdé, Mr Thijsen and Mr Bikker will speak on behalf of the States of Aruba. The representatives of Saint Martin will not speak. The Deputy Minister will speak after the first term of office. In accordance with Article 17 of the Staff Regulations, the contributions of the Deputy Minister and of the Special Delegates shall have the character of providing information. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Laar, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party supports the harmonisation of visas for all countries of the Kingdom. It is efficient to ensure that the work processes and the broad lines of visa policy are aligned. This will also ensure that the whole Kingdom complies with international obligations in this area and will be coordinated in tackling illegal immigration. That is a good thing. In the view of the Labour Party, a good balance has been struck between the powers and responsibilities of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the individual powers of the various countries. They shall keep their own hands in the implementation and may derogate in their visa decisions for specific reasons relating to the islands. Unfortunately, the PvdA sees that the countries of the Kingdom of Aruba, Saint Martin and Curaçao still take the view that this law should not be introduced, because it would be a so-called country matter. We also note that the law has stalled over the last five years. Can the Minister provide insight into the discussions that have taken place in the meantime with the countries? And why haven't we managed to reach agreement? It's always a shame if you can't. Can the Minister explain why this law is a Kingdom matter, partly because of the aspects of foreign policy and the admission that this law sees as? The PvdA notes that the Council of State also says that the basis of this state law can be found in Article 3 of the Statute. We also welcome the fact that the law provides for structural consultation within the Kingdom at official and political level on visa policy. All the countries of the Kingdom are so justified. In addition, the Labour Party would like to hear from the Minister whether and, if so, what changes the implementation of this law will result in the granting of visas in the other three countries of the Kingdom. How are they organized? Finally, the Labour Party is looking forward to the reaction of the Cabinet to the amendments of the special delegates from the other Caribbean countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	Good afternoon, Minister Koenders, Minister Plenipotentiary, Members of the House of Representatives and special delegates. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of a visa is an instrument for regulating admission to the countries of the Kingdom. That's a good instrument. It is to be welcomed, as Mr Van Laar has just said, to have a certain degree of unity in it. However, there is an important bottleneck in this proposal. We have to face that. Admission to autonomous countries, the countries of the Kingdom and the Caribbean, is, according to the Staff Regulations, a matter of national concern. Granting a visa is a matter of national concern. The Kingdom Government can and will, in general terms, give direction to the admission policies of the countries. This means, as it says, that establishing the list of visa-free countries is a kingdom issue. It is therefore necessary to clarify when and how we deal with these two apparent or sometimes apparent contradictions. So there's a potential problem. I'll try to make it concrete. Suppose Aruba wants to promote tourism from Brazil, with us in the region, but for good reasons, the Kingdom would say that it wants to limit the flow of Brazilians to the Kingdom through a visa obligation. The question then is how we deal with this potential difference of opinion. It is said that there is consultation, which seeks to get together. Last but not least, you can go to the National Council for Internal Apple. However, we think that an internal apple is too weak an instrument. That's not enough. You could therefore suggest a little more consultation and the consultation to take place in such a way that it leads to solutions that prevent you from going to the National Council of Ministers. A protocol was signed in 2003 and it will be said this afternoon that the establishment of visa-free countries is a kingdom issue. In the case of Aruba, the granting of a visa is a matter of country for Aruba. How does this work in practice according to this protocol, signed in 2003 by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice of Aruba? Aruba grants a mandate to embassies and consulates to issue a visa on behalf of Aruba. However, the establishment of a visa requirement, as it says literally, takes place in agreement with the Minister for General Affairs of Aruba and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Agreement must be reached by agreement. Finally, it is said that if the decision on an individual visa application has implications for foreign policy, this means that the Minister of Justice, the Minister for General Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will enter into consultation with a view to reaching a solution. Solutions are therefore always sought in consultation. That is why what is in the explanatory statement is quite disturbing. It says: "Since the issue of a visa is of the utmost importance to the kingdom, it is important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has the powers appropriate to his responsibility. However important consultation and cooperation are, the exercise of these powers cannot be made conditional on the consent of the countries." This is a violation of the Staff Regulations. We need to find a solution to that. As I said before, we consider an internal apple to be inadequate. Consultations shall, in accordance with the same explanatory memorandum, aim to promote unity of visa policy. We agree. Although the interests of the countries and public bodies are explicitly involved, it is not excluded that differences of understanding persist. In order to break the deadlock in such situations, it is reasonable to refer these matters to the Council of Ministers. That's the internal apple. This proposal provides for consultation in the event of possible conflicts of interest, but the consultation should not impede the decision-making of the Foreign Minister. It is therefore submitted to the National Council of Ministers in the event of a disagreement. However, the experience with the internal apple is not satisfactory. For this reason, we propose that we continue to look for ways of increasing research and finding a solution in the form of a cooperation agreement, in cooperation agreements to which the Statute also offers the possibility. I ask the Foreign Minister whether he sees solutions in this direction, in a cooperation agreement that goes beyond this protocol. What basis could the Minister find for this in the Statute?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr Herdé made a very nuanced speech on the distribution of powers, on what is the Kingdom and on what is the responsibility of the countries, namely the granting of visas. I would like to talk about the interests we share. I am not so much calling for the Brazilians who might come, but let us talk about our biggest neighbour, Venezuela. Mr Herdé knows that Venezuelan migration is increasing. Does Mr Herdé agree with me that it is important to have a kingdom if this migration takes greater forms than it already is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u5	Oh, yeah. Last week we discussed this in detail in the conciliation between Parliaments. However, I believe that the visa instrument is no longer appropriate in this context. Our assessment is that the situation in Venezuela is far beyond the visa requirement. The visa requirement applies to relatively normal circumstances. In our neighbouring country, the situation is no longer normal. That has consequences for the Kingdom. Quite specifically, Aruba is absolutely unable to absorb large numbers. We also see no solution for the Kingdom. I do not foresee a concrete solution to the situation in Venezuela. I hope that the organisation of American states and the efforts of neighbouring countries such as Brazil, Argentina and Colombia will still be successful, so that a peaceful solution can be found in Venezuela. However, I do not see any solution for the Kingdom at this time. In my view, a visa requirement is not an instrument that could still apply in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u6	Let's get that bone down a little bit more. For the Kingdom, but especially for you, Venezuela is the largest neighbour. Most neighbouring countries have closed their borders. The most neighbouring countries have also introduced visa requirements, as it is a means of controlling, in any case, unregulated and irregular migratory flows. In Aruba there is no registration and there is no adequate reception. There's a Red Cross Hospital, but there's no reference to that. There is also no current asylum and migration policy. Therefore, if you exclude the visa option as a means of regulation, we will have nothing at all. Venezuelans can just go into hiding. Venezuelans can take a one-way ticket. That means they have access to the whole Kingdom. That's what we need to regulate. To this end, the granting and granting of visas is a very effective means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u7	Yeah, in a general sense. The situation at the moment is that the Venezuelans are coming, with or without a visa. They come in boats. In broad daylight you can see the Venezuelan coast from the Aruban coast. They're all coming. That is why I am saying that a visa will no longer be effective. The situation is already beyond a situation where visa requirements could apply. Why have neighbouring countries closed their borders? Because the situation is already getting out of hand with an illegal flow, not only of persons and goods. Guyana and Colombia Brazil is less interesting and have already closed their borders. How do you close the Aruban borders for an influx of people without visas? They come in boats, illegal and at night. Coast Guard's active, but here's the situation. It is a similar situation to the one you have with Greece and Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yeah, you said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr Herdé spoke about the working arrangements that have been in force since 2003. In this context, there is actually already consultation between the countries. The reason why we have not reached agreement on this law is the fear of disputes and of failing to resolve them properly. Is there any basis for this in the past 13 years? Over the past thirteen years, have there been differences of opinion between Aruba and the National Council of Ministers or the Minister for Foreign Affairs or between the Caribbean countries in the Kingdom on countries which should or should not be subject to visa requirements? Have these differences been there or have they been going well for 13 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u10	I don't know any details, but I don't think so. Otherwise, we would have taken notice of that. Perhaps the Minister responsible or the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs can indicate this, but legislation must look ahead, examine potential situations and find appropriate solutions in advance. That is also why I would like to find a solution in consultation and to extend the consultation to possible cooperation agreements which are actually an elaboration of what is contained in the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u11	If the consultation has been going well for 13 years, shouldn't we also be allowed to legislate on the assumption that it will continue to work? If this leads to structural disputes, we may be able to see if the dispute settlement that is then in place is appropriate. If you don't, you can see if you need to make a specific dispute settlement. Preemptively amending a very complicated procedure in a law because there might be a disagreement one day might be a little too big a step. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u12	I understand where you're going. A dispute settlement would help. We don't have one yet. We're making them together. Hopefully it'll be there soon, but you're always trying to avoid a dispute. You're trying to avoid having to grab the ultimum remedium of a dispute settlement. That is why I want to give more hands and feet to the discussion that has been planned. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. We are gathered for the treatment of the Rijksvisum Act, which basically regulates the granting of visas within the Kingdom, especially for the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, as the Netherlands cooperates in the field of visa provision in a European context. It is therefore logical that we are accompanied here by the special delegates from Aruba and Saint Martin; I do not think we are from Curaçao. I would therefore like to welcome them to this special session in the Chamber. The core of this law is to modernise and standardise the granting of visas, with rules on visa requirements, the criteria for the renewal of visas, the restrictions, the rules and the power to grant visas, as well as the withdrawal, modification and renewal of visas. In this way, at kingdom level, we can combat illegal migration, which Mr Herdé has just spoken about, and guarantee security within the national borders. That is a kingdom's importance, an interest that we all share. It is therefore logical that the legal basis for this law lies in Article 3 of the Statute. That article deals with the defence and external relations of the Kingdom. The legal basis is therefore not Article 38, which concerns the arrangements between the various countries within the Kingdom. It's about the external borders. That does not mean, however, that the structural dialogue between the countries is continuing on this subject; my colleague has just spoken about it. In fact, with this state law, it will finally have a legal basis. The reports by the States of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin indicate that not all our colleagues in the Caribbean are in agreement with us that granting aliens access to the Kingdom should also be a kingdom issue. Several colleagues stress that the admission of foreigners is a matter of country. My group is fundamentally opposed to this. That is not only because the VVD considers that the admission of foreigners is a matter of kingdom in the event of delay, but also because it believes that we cannot deal with this law and this issue without seeing it in the light of the difficult situation in all of us, and also our greatest neighbour Venezuela. Venezuela is on the list of non-visa nationals and it is collapsing. Years of socialist disdain have brought this country to the brink of ruin. The situation is getting worse every day. There's a shortage of water, food, electricity and medicine. Simple products such as beer, aspirin and even condoms are hardly available anymore. Calling is difficult due to the failure of the largest domestic networks because they can no longer pay their bills. Not only is the phone network down, but the whole country is down. And corruption and high crime rates only make that situation more unbearable for the inhabitants and more explosive to the environment. It should therefore not come as a surprise that the support for President Maduro has fallen to 15%. I believe that only Emile Roemer still believes in the future of Maduro; he was there in 2013. But after years of election victory, as many as 70% of Venezuelans want Maduro to resign immediately. In a democracy, that happens, but not in this dictatorship. For fear of losing power, Maduro declared a state of emergency and arrested countless opposition leaders. Now, like a cat, he's looking for every opportunity to blame abroad. More and more violent, massive protests are destroying Venezuela's daily street image. Order forces respond with brutal force and shoot with sharp. The country is slipping into an unsustainable spiral. This is North Korea of South America. The consequences are therefore noticeable, including in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. After all, it's just a little bit, about 30 kilometers, from Venezuela to the islands. Mike Franco, the president of the Curaçao Parliament, stated that he knew two successful attempts by people who were able to swim through the Caribbean Sea. Mr Herdé's contribution just now spoke for himself. I'd almost say, "I rest my case." And then, of course, we can do it with boats. Many illegals make the crossing by boarding the fruit bars that dock daily in Curaçao. The fact that there has been a significant increase in illegal Venezuelan migrants, who mainly come to Aruba and linger there, is certain. In the Caribbean press, we occasionally read reports about awashing boat refugees and roaming Venezuelan illegals, but officially there is nothing going on, because there is no supervision there. Mr Herdé just confirmed that. Any request for figures from this Chamber is unfortunately answered by our government with the disappointing statement that these numbers are not recorded. And not only is there not a registration, the islands are not prepared at all for the arrival of the large numbers of refugees. These numbers are quickly too large, given Venezuela's population size, 30 million, and those of Aruba, for example, 100,000. Migration policy or asylum legislation is not and is not in the making either. I'll give you an example that, if it weren't so sad, could be called hilarious. When the Syrian refugee Aktham Ubu Fakher reported to the immigration agency of Curaçao on 19 January, he was picked up for €1,000 by human smugglers from Venezuela and dropped off on the beach of Willemstad. That's where he checked in with the authorities. They wrote down his name, which made him the only registered asylum seeker on the island. But he didn't go to the shelter. He was sent to prison by the authorities, who were at an end. Suppose this asylum seeker, this refugee, this Syrian man who had the civilisation to just properly report to the authorities, would start a procedure because he feels that Curaçao has failed to provide proper care. Then the Netherlands is also addressed and only one Liesbeth Zegveld is needed. That has happened before, albeit with another lawyer, in the Murray case. The Dutch State was then sued because the prison facilities in Curaçao and Aruba were insufficient according to the relatives. In short, the lack of registration, the lack of adequate reception and the failure to prepare serious asylum and migration legislation show that the islands do not know what to do with potential refugees. I call upon Mr Herdé's speech as a witness to the discharge. It was only one person who had the courtesy to report, but the idea that migration actually stays with that one is naive. Illegal migration is already taking place. It's the Achilles' heel of our empire borders. It's a migration leak I have you there; a route du soleil that is wide open. It is a public secret on the islands that there are Venezuelans who simply do not report to the immigration service, stay under the radar or disappear, and for whom a plane to the islands is equivalent to a visa-free one-way ticket to the Caribbean. You must blame them, because the situation in Venezuela is harrowing and terrifying. A boat's gonna be taken any minute. The last time I said that in this place, in 2011 about the Arab Spring, I was also laughed at by most parties, but meanwhile, the hundreds of thousands of boat refugees are Europe's biggest problem at the moment. Europe is rich and has policies, and should therefore be able to deal with them in principle. However, the islands are not rich. They have nothing, except their own Merkel: the Aruban Prime Minister Mike Eman. He practically provoked immigration when he stated that Aruba will receive refugees tolerant and hospitable. As far as my group is concerned, this can no longer be done. A year ago, one year and five days to be precise, my group warned about the situation in Venezuela. Minister Koenders didn't have to know so much about that back then. After all, the travel advice was fine and we should not worry. In the meantime, the travel advice has already been modified twice and concerns have only increased. I have asked several times, along with my colleague Bosman, for the visa requirement for Venezuelans. I recently did so in response to the statements of the Aruban Minister of Tourism, who said: 'We cannot close our eyes to this situation where the flow of people from Venezuela is almost impossible to control'. He then pleaded for a visa requirement himself. We can't do that. We can only do the list. But he can. I have just spoken about this in the interrupting debate. However, the cabinet does not want it. In fact, that possibility was not even discussed at the last visa work conference with the Caribbean territories in April 2016. I would like to hear again and strongly whether the cabinet still believes that Venezuelans should be able to travel visa-free to the Kingdom or that this will be finally revised soon. My group also remains concerned about the inadequate steps taken so far to register and combat illegal migration. It is not only logical that we should monitor this, but it is also in the interests of the Kingdom. We need to keep an eye on who enters the islands, who can travel through them, and how many foreigners are illegally staying on the islands. The islands are simply too small and simply do not have the capacity for it. Mr Herdé has already indicated this. I can tell you here, but someone who's seen it with their own eyes can do much better. I can't say that enough. I would therefore urge this cabinet, together with the authorities of the ABC countries, in particular Aruba and Curaçao, to work at last to tighten up screening and admission and removal measures. I previously tabled a motion together with CDA colleague Knops, in which the government was instructed to urge the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao to monitor illegal migration. It is also quite unclear to me what has been achieved, but perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this later. Let me say in advance that I am considering a follow-up motion in this area. The cabinet is right when it lays down by this law that the admission of foreigners to the Kingdom is a kingdom matter. But let us not forget that the threats at our external borders cannot be solved by a rich law. These threats call for serious answers in the form of serious and concrete measures that reflect and prevent and combat illegal migration. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr Ten Broeke spoke extensively about Venezuela. I share those concerns. The question asked by Mr Herdé is relevant: how is a visa going to help when people cross 20 kilometres in boats? That's not gonna help in that situation, is it? Isn't the contradiction Mr Ten Broeke sketches false?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u15	On the contrary. A visa could help enormously, because at least you register. Then you know who it's about. Often visa granting agreements on readmission are tied up, although this may be difficult with Venezuela. Although, we still have good contacts with Venezuela, if I may believe this minister. It's also stuck that you can track people again. You can also apply conditions to it. It is not for me to elaborate on this, because the issue of granting specific visas is a matter of country, but the establishment of the list of visa-free countries is a kingdom issue. We could really think about that. We should at least talk about it. That's a plea I'm making today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u16	I do wonder who's gonna have to check those visas on the beach when people get there in boats. What is even more important is that this is a very important issue for Aruba. Last year 150,000 visitors came from Venezuela. They've almost all gone back, I suppose. If that power suddenly dries up because visas have to be issued, it is an enormous economic damage. Has Mr Ten Broeke made that assessment, or is he just looking at that one side of the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u17	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what we do here. Giving a visa doesn't mean you're failing yourself. Visas means you regulate. Mr Van Laar himself says that he assumes that they have gone back. But listen to the colleague who just spoke and saw it with his own eyes: it is very doubtful whether they have gone back. We just don't know. We don't know anything. There is no registration, there is no policy, there is no reception and there is no possibility of sending them back. There's nothing at all, Mr. Van Laar. We cannot have that at the external borders of our Kingdom, with a country so imploded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u18	I said that a visa requirement would have little effect at the moment, given the influx of illegal people into boats. Mr Van Laar said that Venezuela is the second most important country for tourism, among other things. So that is the balance that we are making. I have the impression that Mr Ten Broeke is not making that assessment. A visa requirement has an effect if you can selectively proceed with the admission. You cannot do that under the conditions that are currently threatening Aruba and the other islands from Venezuela. However, those 150,000 tourists who come every year are registered and monitored. Even heavier measures have been taken and higher demands have been placed on the influx of tourists. From Aruba itself, instruments have been put in place to regulate and register that flow. That economic consideration versus the real consideration of security and security is not what I hear in Mr Ten Broeke's speech. However, within the framework of foreign and visa policy, we must pay attention to that consideration. Can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u19	Sure, I'll make that trade-off. We do the same in the Netherlands. The means of granting visas is a matter of national concern. Mr Herdé also mentioned this in his speech. The moment when tourism versus illegal migration has a batig or negative balance, I cannot determine for him, but he is not prepared for it. He said the same thing. Illegals are not registered. A lot of people come in, there's no shelter, there's no policy, people can, if they want, start procedures or they can move on. There is no form of supervision or control. Then Mr Herdé can say: it is fine at the moment, because it only gives us something, but if those Venezuelans like to come, they will also come with a visa. Later, however, there will be Venezuelans with other motives, for example because things go wrong there. Then Mr Herdé has nothing, then he is in the cold, but not just him, because because of the absurd possibilities of his country, we are all on our own. That cannot be done, and we must do so in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u20	I think we should distinguish between regular visits and irregular visits, so the people who come with boats.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u21	How?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u22	Can Mr Ten Broeke indicate for any country how to stop illegal immigrants? These are not asylum seekers yet, but people who cross the border illegally. How can you register it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u23	They could be asylum seekers. I have just given an example, not least of a Syrian asylum seeker who has made a proper appearance there. In his speech, Mr Herdé said that there was a great deal of irregular migration. If there is no registration, if no action is taken, if there is no external border surveillance, if there is no policy to achieve anything, even if there is no reference to the one small provision on the island for reception in the case of one asylum seeker... I think there's some work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u24	The picture presented by Mr Ten Broeke that there is no policy, no reception, no registration is not correct at all. Otherwise, the island would indeed be unmanageable. That is not the case. People get evicted all the time. The Coast Guard of the Kingdom is functioning perfectly and this concerns not only individuals but also illegal products. The image presented by Mr Ten Broeke is therefore completely incorrect. However, the threat of people erupting a situation in Venezuela exceeds any capacity. That is what we need to focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u25	You've already made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u26	I understand very well that Mr Herdé, faced with the fact that there is also a price to be paid for the provision that we should do this jointly, could somewhat deter that conclusion. Moreover, I am very equestrian in this, because visa granting as such is, in my opinion, a matter of national concern. However, I believe that in his last contribution he is already making the arguments for the fact that this should be treated under Article 3 as a kingdom matter. After all, he himself says that external border surveillance, the Coast Guard, is a kingdom issue, and that is what migration should be the first to face in an ideal situation. He's right when he says this. I would say, now that the rest of the chain is in order, that is good for the country, that is good for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u27	I am glad that we are here, because I believe that a distorted image has emerged. The comparison that is apparently made with the situation of Syrian refugees does not stand up for the current situation in Aruba. It is not the first time that there have been crises in neighbouring countries and that the IMF has come to help. Historically, this situation is quite different. When something happens, experience shows that things recover quickly. That was the issue in 2002 for three days. So it's a different situation. The idea that we are or are not going to solve it with a visa is, in my view, a very easy idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr Bikker has absolutely a point if he thinks that it is only about granting visas, but that is not the case. That is why I have proposed five points. It starts with registration. It starts with reception to which reference can be made. It starts with the design and development of asylum and migration legislation, as we know it, just because procedures can provoke condemnation. I think that's very conceivable. We have also seen it in previous cases; I have just mentioned them. These are three points that precede the question of whether or not the country wants to impose stricter visa requirements. At least that is what I am advocating. That is the fourth measure. I did not make the comparison with the Syrian refugees; your colleague Herdé did so. Like everyone else, I hope it doesn't come to that, but when it comes to that, the legislation better be in order. And we have the opportunity to do so today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u29	I conclude that we consider it important that we discuss this issue when dealing with this proposal for a law. I am glad that Mr Ten Broeke realizes that it is not an easy situation. It's a complicated issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u30	In the hybrid form that you sometimes have to find with each other, Mr Bikker whispered that to me; that's what you could call it here, there is that consultation, but then we have to make that consultation useful. Mr Van Laar rightly said that we have been talking about this for five years, but talking is not enough. Talking while the great neighbour Venezuela is on the brink of collapse is not enough to protect you and us at our external borders. That's the point I'm trying to make here. The urgency is obvious. It's not only seen by me, it's seen by yourself. What I want to do is to seriously provide for measures in the kingdom talks that we have. After all, this is a matter of kingdom and you are now making the arguments yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u32	I can't do that myself, of course, because I'm not in the government. I have to do it through the government. I call on Mr. Accountant and Mr. Koenders to do something about this. That's our job here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u33	The Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mr Thijsen from Aruba. He is speaking on behalf of the MEP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and distinguished audiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u35	Then you'll hear that there's another way. The public will also be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u36	Yes. The audience listens carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u37	Yeah, everybody's quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u38	That's democracy. The people listen to us. Madam President. It's going to be today...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u39	We are here on behalf of the people. Keep talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u40	... to the National Visa Act, on provisions on the granting of visas for entry into the countries of the Kingdom. Article 3 of the Statute clearly sets out the kingdom issues and the autonomous powers of the autonomous countries. This concerns matters of the country. In the past, in 2010, a debate has already taken place at parliamentary level to discuss this issue. After six years we are back and today we are debating the Rijksvisum Act. The Council of State clearly states that the Advisory Council of Aruba and the Advisory Council of the former Netherlands Antilles have issued opinions on the proposal of the National Law on the choice of this basis. This is very important. From the point of view of the autonomy of the Caribbean countries, it is proposed that Article 38 of the Statute for the Kingdom should be included in the proposal. These opinions are not dealt with at all in the explanatory memorandum. The Council of State considers this to be desirable, partly because it considers that the argument is well-founded, and recommends that the explanatory memorandum and, if necessary, the proposed basis be supplemented on this point. As a group, we have submitted a report together with the other groups. The MEP Group wishes to make it clear that it does not agree with the position adopted by the National Council of Ministers not to comment on the opinions of the Council of Advisors of Aruba and the Advisory Council of the then Netherlands Antilles. Article 3 (1) (b) and (g) of the Staff Regulations have been chosen as the basis for the proposal of the Rijksvisum Act. The Advisory Council of Aruba and the Advisory Council of the Netherlands Antilles have clearly proposed, from the perspective of the autonomy of the Caribbean countries, that Article 38 of the Staff Regulations for the Kingdom should be included in the proposal. The Council of the Opinion of Aruba has therefore made this clear. For the most part, the admission policy for foreigners is also a matter of country. A Rijksvisum Act whose statutory basis is exclusively laid down in Article 3 (1) (g) would be contrary to the Staff Regulations. Moreover, the Aruba Advisory Council states that the statutory basis proposed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the proposal of the State Visa Act is legally incorrect. The MEP Group refers to the opinion of the Aruba Opinion Council of 5 February 2009. Finally, the MEP Group refers to the motion of 14 September 2009. That motion clearly states that the States of Aruba can only agree to the Rijksvisum Act if the relevant state law is established on the basis of consensus between the countries of the Kingdom. Therefore, Article 38 of the Statute for the Kingdom is primarily the legal basis for this State Law. I also refer to a protocol from 2003 between the Netherlands and the country of Aruba. So there is another way to solve this problem. I have two questions for the Minister. Why is it not taking into account the position of the Advisory Council of Aruba and the Advisory Council of the Netherlands Antilles? There has been an answer, but that answer is not well substantiated. So it's not convincing. That is why I ask the Minister to do so. My other question is why the Minister chooses to solve this by means of a state law rather than by means of a protocol, as I have mentioned, because we can do that together within the Kingdom. Then it was about the fight against terrorism. This time it's about other cases. I understand the concern, but we have to do it right and we have to do it together. It is an interpretation issue and that is why we see today how important a dispute committee is, because it is about the interpretation of the Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u41	The honourable Member gives a comprehensive summary of all the consultative bodies which believe that Article 38 should have been chosen. He says that it is not well substantiated. I would then like to hear an explanation from him as to why it should be Article 38. After all, we have just established that, especially as regards the influx of potentially illegal unwanted aliens, you need to develop policies for your external borders that apply to the whole of the Kingdom. It is therefore not one country, because its effects go far beyond that one country. The same applies to the other countries in the Kingdom. By definition, with reference to the argumentation of just now, it is a kingdom issue and is the choice of Article 3 a very correct one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u42	In a democracy, in a rule of law, we have advisory bodies, such as the Advisory Council. The Advisory Council with us clearly states that Article 3 cannot be used as a basis because the admission or expulsion of foreigners is a matter of country. That's for sure for us. It is therefore an interpretation issue. When this issue was discussed in 2010 it was chosen to leave it at that discussion, because it is a question of interpretation who is right. So it's a choice you can make. It must be made clear that the Statute must be respected. In 2010, after 50 years, there was a completely different interpretation of Article 3, in the sense that it is a kingdom issue. We insist that it is an autonomous competence. That is why, in 2003, we opted for a different form of solution to the problem through a protocol, including Article 38 on the basis of a mutual settlement. We did good at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u43	I can try to convince you that it should be Article 3, referring to the opinions we have received on that point, such as the opinion of the Council of State. I can also listen to your arguments as to why you think it should be Article 38. The difference seems to me today that I have tried to give these arguments a few times and that I do not hear from you any arguments as to why it should be Article 38, other than that you say it is established for you. The nice thing about the exchange of opinions is that nothing is actually fixed until it is established. I would therefore like to assume for a moment that we can convince each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u44	We have already mentioned that economic interests are important to us. For example, in Aruba, there is now one economic pillar, and that is tourism. At the moment, there is a situation where you need Venezuela in terms of economic importance. You also have, as you say, certain problems that are coming towards us. Then you have to make a choice. We are concerned, the Netherlands is concerned and the Kingdom is concerned. The question now is how to solve that. I don't think this Rijksvisa law is a real solution. I believe that, within the Kingdom, we must maintain the Statute as a constitution, including those with powers. If there is an interpretation issue, we must work together to find a solution, because we do not yet have a dispute committee that can say who is right. We want to do that together through Article 38. That is very important, because it is a question of resolving the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u45	Finally, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u46	You'd like to solve it. We agree that the Rijksvisa law does not solve the problems of illegal migration as such. We'll try to make them manageable. That's what you do by setting up common policies. There is no such policy. There's no registration either. Reception is also insufficient. Nor is there any commitment to limit it. So we are not talking about tourism, we are talking about illegal unwanted migration and the possibility that a large neighbour that is very close can cause or may already cause illegal migration. You'll be empty-handed, and so will we. That's the argument I'm trying to keep. You cannot terminate Article 3 because it concerns all of us. In fact, I do not hear any arguments against them, other than that you say that you interpret them differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u47	A brief response, Mr Thijsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u48	I share the same view of your position. I have read the documents and see no argument for Article 38. That's the point. We're looking for a solution, but the issue is how we're gonna do it together. That's the problem. We want to solve this together, don't we? Article 38 is not a problem. This can be used together with Article 3. It's about finding a solution together. That's the point. Article 38 is exactly what we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u49	Very briefly, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u50	In my view, Article 38 deals with problems between countries. Now we are faced with threats at our external borders. That makes it, by definition, a kingdom issue, and thus Article 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Thijsen. I now give the floor to Mr Bikker on behalf of the PDR from Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u52	Madam President. Minister, ministers, colleagues, attendees and those who follow us through the media. I won't repeat myself. However, I would like to make the following points in the debate on Articles 38 and 3. In the preamble to the Act, reference is made to the first paragraph of Article 3. The first paragraph deals with the establishment of general arrangements. The establishment of general arrangements is a kingdom matter. I believe that external relations are also a matter of kingdom. Article 3 of the National Visa Act deals with admission itself. In the exercise of each other's powers, one takes over and again. That's specifically a matter of country. That is precisely why I believe that the introductory wording should include not only the first paragraph of Article 3, but also Article 38. The Rijksvisum Act has also been drawn up in consultation between the countries. That is why I think that we are actually talking about the same thing, but that the emphasis needs to be underlined. That is my view of this legal discussion. I believe in hybrid solutions. I have tabled two amendments to that effect. One of them is supposed to be. We were talking about a neighbouring country, but there are many neighbouring countries. Aruba, Sint-Maarten, Curaçao and the Netherlands are largely dependent on tourism. That is an economic pillar. If it is decided in general consultation that there should be a visa requirement for a particular country, I would point out the following. In the absence of any form of dispute resolution so far, we have an interest in ensuring that, first of all, there is some kind of mediation. What is now included in Article 15 refers in fact to Article 12 of the Statute, which does not always work satisfactorily. That is why I am proposing in the amendment that I have drawn up and signed by the members of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin that we create a possibility of mediation. This is also in line with the principles we agreed on in the interparliamentary consultation. Depending on the nature of the dispute, the parties may agree, in agreement and voluntarily, to appoint a mediator, a conflict mediator. Secondly, it is conceivable that there will be a visa requirement for a particular country. However, we want those who are interested in travelling as tourists to our countries to be able to apply for visas electronically in a very easy way. I also propose this, in view of the ever-increasing technological developments. Experience has shown that the manual setting-up of the visa process occasionally delayed visa-free countries such as Colombia. We have looked, among other things, at Australia and the United States where electronic applications are used. Today, it is inconceivable that, as a Kingdom or as a country, you would not create such an opportunity via the Internet. That is the thrust of the second amendment. I would now like to await the government's reaction. Several points have been raised, which we discussed in the interparliamentary consultations last week. I therefore agree with Mr Van Laar who asked for a reaction from the government to the two amendments, which have been tabled on behalf of yours truly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr Bikker has tabled an amendment on mediation. The article assumes that one of the parties may request mediation and that it takes place if all the other parties agree. Why should that be regulated in the law? If the parties have a dispute between themselves, they can of course agree mediation. Mr Bikker does not have to anchor that in the law. He should only anchor it in the law if one of the parties alone should have the right to do so. If it is a consensus, why should it be regulated in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u54	Article 21 of our Code of Civil Procedure contains the same rules. You are now actually stating that Article 21 of our Code of Civil Procedure could be deleted. The recent past has shown that the path of voluntary mediation is never taken. All in all, I think it would be useful, as in Article 21 of our Code of Civil Procedure, to include such an arrangement. In addition, I have seen legislative proposals in this Chamber being dealt with, which create a legal basis for certain types of mediation. So I think it makes sense to do so by way of derogation from the second paragraph, which states that points of dispute can be referred to the Council of Ministers under Article 12. It creates a legal basis so that the parties can submit their disputes through mediation. Finally, we, as legislators, guide the way in which it could be shaped and to whom it could be designated. Moreover, it is also expected and assumed that other countries will cooperate reasonably with a country that is asking for mediation. I know from my own experience that this is not self-evident. You take it for granted, but I think that a specific legal basis will contribute to this. I say this, of course, pending an overall settlement of disputes. Nor does it cut what we agreed in the interparliamentary consultation, because paragraph 2 states: settlement of disputes, whether or not with prior mediation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u55	I had an exchange with Mr Herdé earlier that there has been no disagreement over the last 13 years as to which country should or should not be subject to a visa requirement. Perhaps Mr Bikker has other information on this, but if that is not the case, it is logical that a mediation process has never been started. The question is why you have to include that in the law. We are not talking about the Civil Code, we are talking about negotiations between countries. We can agree in good faith that mediation will take place if a dispute ever arises in the future. Why should this be laid down in the law if there has never been a dispute and if it has to be based on consensus?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr Bikker, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u57	You can see it as fire insurance. Hopefully the house will never burn down, but if it ever burns down, you'll need insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u58	That is indeed a very short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u59	I don't see much in mediation either. I'd rather say you're starting mediation when you're considering a divorce. We don't want any of that, do we? You only need fire insurance if there is a real threat of fire, when there has never been a fire before. So I don't like mediation because we are there ourselves. For example, we are now talking to each other. There's been talk for a long time. I see much more in Mr Bikker's other amendment, which deals with electronic visa granting. I am very much in favour of that, but it must be possible. I do not know whether Mr Bikker has read the Government's response, but it shows that this has been handled with great restraint so far. I think it was very negative in the Philippines. How does the honourable Member see it that we are making this possible now? Indeed, it is in principle in line with the national responsibility we have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u60	I think the ever-changing technological developments give us the opportunity to record data and files. The amendment gives the kingdom government the freedom to fill this out, because that is ultimately just implementation. But once again, I cannot imagine that it is impossible, given other countries that do and given the technology available to us. By the way, last week we also agreed on cooperation in the area of the Internet economy. I think that both the Netherlands and other countries do have the technology to get this done fairly quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u61	I'm gonna correct myself, because you couldn't have seen the answer to those questions. It was about the annual report. I sometimes confuse all the government's answers; my mistake. I think we're in agreement. Let us await the Minister's reply. Maybe today will work without mediation; who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mr. Chairman. This proposal for a state law lays down the broad lines for the granting of visas within the Kingdom. Visa policy has traditionally been an instrument of foreign policy and is therefore, in my opinion, a kingdom issue. The explanatory statement to the amendment on item No. That is why 16 of the Minister responsible does not convince me of the contrary. This bill meets international obligations and aims to prevent illegal immigration in the Kingdom. With the legislative proposal, the cabinet strives for more uniformity in visa policy within the Kingdom. The PVV attaches great importance to this uniformity of visa policy. The PVV also attaches great importance to clarity in a legislative proposal. We make laws not just for lawyers, but for all citizens. Essential points must therefore be fast, clear, transparent, clear and accessible to all citizens. That brings me to the amendment I tabled. That amendment is an addition to Article 6 of the bill. That article states that a visa issued by one of the countries or public bodies automatically applies to the other countries and public bodies. A lawyer who studies this law properly understands that this does not concern the Netherlands. Such a lawyer can draw that from the connection with Article 1. However, an unsuspecting citizen who takes a look at this law and reads Article 6 does not have the retina that this does not apply to the Netherlands. In my view, therefore, it would be very good, in order to avoid misunderstandings, to add to that Article 6 a second paragraph which simply states that a visa granted for access to one of the countries or public bodies does not, under any circumstances, constitute a visa for access to the Netherlands. This is proposed in my amendment. So it's clip-and-clip ready for anyone who looks into that law. I would also like to touch on the amendment to item No. 14, by Mr Bikker. This is about issuing visas by electronic means. Mr Bikker has just explained this by pointing out that, for example, if you want to go to the United States and apply for a visa, you can do so by electronic means. I do not know whether Mr Bikker has ever tried to obtain a visa for the United States in this way. I know some people who did. I did it myself. I will not talk about my own experience with this, but I do know that the people I know and who have done this have been working on it all night. It's so complex. It should also be added that you should not only apply for a visa, but that you will eventually have to go to that embassy to collect that visa. There's no getting away from that. It is therefore important that the documents in question, which you have to submit and with which you have to prove what you claim, should of course be able to be checked by a person. That is why I am going to go into this in such detail. If we accepted Mr Bikker's amendment, there would be a risk in this respect. I'd like to hear what the Foreign Minister thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u63	I would like to draw your attention to another example. We have a European passport, a Dutch passport. We apply very regularly for a visa waiver from the United States. That'll be done in 15 minutes. I'm talking about the ESTA. If we set it up better than the United States, I cannot imagine why this should present a problem today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yeah, the ESTA is a different system. In fact, it is being discussed in the United States to stop doing so, because it is considered to be a little dangerous. It is believed that too much can be tampered with. It's not ready yet, so maybe it won't. But a visa system is much safer, especially if you keep in that system that all documents must be seen and checked by a person. Only then can you establish with a certain degree of certainty that there is no such thing as a forgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u65	My proposal is merely to remove unnecessary thresholds. There are so many systems. For example, there is also a system called Iridium. It just makes it easier for people who travel a lot. That is the purpose of the amendment. Again, I leave the specific execution to the kingdom government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yes, but as spokesperson for the PVV I say: let us just stick to a visa and let us also stick to all guarantees as far as possible in the granting of that visa in order to avoid fraud in relation to that visa application. I ask again what the Foreign Minister thinks of that. Mr Bikker has also tabled another amendment proposing the appointment of a conflict mediator if countries cannot fully agree on the application of the National Visa Act. To be honest, I don't see much in that either. In this way an extra layer of consultation is placed between them. By definition, that means delay. If representatives of the countries sit together to discuss a problem with each other, they will discuss it as sensible people. That's what I'm assuming. They will then fully discuss and pronounce on such a problem. At some point they may come to the conclusion that they disagree and that they remain so. I don't see why another mediator needs to be put in the middle. I'd put one of those points to the National Council of Ministers right away. That's where it's headed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u67	Unfortunately, rather recent experiences have shown that there can be no comparison in the case of disputes. Mediation has proved to be an alternative dispute resolution tool in several jurisdictions. And again, it's voluntary. There must be a willingness to do so. If it does not exist, it goes straight to Article 12, but if there is agreement on it, then my amendment gives the legal basis for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u68	It remains that, if it is voluntary, it will lead to delays. I don't see the point. It is now known that the PVV believes that the Netherlands can better say goodbye to the Antillean islands. The Netherlands must get rid of the duty of care for those islands. The PVV is of the opinion that they should go further as independent countries. But because it is not yet ready, the PVV would like to know the costs for the Dutch taxpayer of the introduction of this Rijksvisum Act. I hope the Foreign Minister will be able to say something about that. I didn't read anything about it in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Maybe there's no cost, but I'd just like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u69	I hear Mr De Roon talking about duty of care for the islands. Can he explain that? Can he specify what those care obligations are right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u70	I believe that money is still going from the Dutch treasury to the islands. That's what I call a duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u71	Can he indicate what kind of money goes from which budget to which island?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u72	Let me take an example from my own wallet. We are still responsible for the defence of the islands. Before that, there's always a ship near the islands. It's just gonna cost us money. We would like to get rid of this duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u73	There is a division of labour within the Kingdom. Military and foreign policy are rich matters. I don't consider that a duty of care. We have a division of labour within the Kingdom. That's what we agreed. It's in the Staff Regulations. If Mr De Roon says that this is a duty of care, then the discussion on the Statute is completely pointless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u74	I am not arguing about the Statute either. I note that there is a duty of care and that these islands cost us money. We want to get rid of that. That would be better for us. It would also be better for the islands if we stopped interfering in their affairs, which they are so eager to manage independently. I come to the situation in Venezuela and the question of whether a visa requirement should be imposed on Venezuelans. I had written a whole story about this, but Mr Ten Broeke spoke so captivatingly about this subject and actually said everything I wanted to say that I refer briefly to what he said. Finally, as far as the PVV is concerned, I would add that the question of whether there should be a visa requirement for Venezuelans can be answered immediately with a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u75	I would like to give Mr De Roon the opportunity to disagree slightly with me. Of course, I'm reluctant to do that. We cannot deny that the countries themselves set the visa conditions. We have just had to acknowledge that. On the other hand, drawing up the list of non-visa countries is something for the Kingdom. Mr Van Laar rightly pointed that out. If the PVV agrees with that, at least here "cuckoo one song" arises on a subject where we rarely or never have it. I also see the chairman shining and smiling. You never know what's gonna come out of this. Then we don't even need that mediation anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u76	I do not know exactly what the question is, but with everything that Mr Ten Broeke is saying, I can agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u77	Well, fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u78	I can't believe I'm going through this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u79	A few months ago, Sint-Maarten was shocked by the arrest of three Syrians who wanted to enter the island with false passports. Those Syrians apparently wanted to fly to Europe via Sint-Maarten, possibly to the Netherlands. This may affect the subject we are discussing today a little bit, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask you a few questions. I'm not sure how that story ended. Can the Minister tell us anything about that? Has our government taken measures to prevent potential terrorists from travelling to Europe via the Antillean Islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u80	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u81	I give the floor first to the Minister responsible for Aruba, Mr Accounting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr. Chairman. The Aruban Government has stated from the outset that the basis of this state law is wrongly based solely on parts b and g of the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Statute. It wishes to base this basis on Article 38 of the Staff Regulations. The note following the report (32415) states that "the subject matter which governs the present proposal of state law is to the fullest extent a matter for the Kingdom." Point 1.3 of the explanatory memorandum provides a further justification for this: "Furthermore, visa policy is also important for access and admission policy. In fact, the criteria for granting visas partly coincide with those resulting from the entry and admission policy for foreign nationals. Because of this consistency, visa policy falls within the scope of Article 3 (1) (g), in so far as it includes general conditions for admission of aliens." Next, the explanatory statement rightly states "that the admission policy is largely a matter of country'. Contrary to the explanatory statement, the Aruban Government considers that the present proposal does indeed regulate matters relating to the autonomous countries. In this context, the protocol signed in 2003 by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Aruban Minister of Justice can be cited as an example. The Aruban Government maintains its view that Article 38 of the Statute should also be taken as the basis for the present legislative proposal, in order to ensure that the autonomy of the countries in this area is respected. It is therefore proposed to amend the legislative proposal accordingly. If a national law regulates kingdom matters as well as matters of land, it can rely on a double basis. The National Visa Act doesn't deal exclusively with kingdom matters. In the explanatory memorandum, point 3.2 states: "The rules governing the division of powers between the various authorities in the proposal for a national law have been applied as closely as possible to existing practice and have sought to take account of the interests assigned to the national authorities and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs." It also states: "This allocation of powers is intended to safeguard both the importance of the external relations of the Kingdom and the legitimate interests of the countries, including the economic performance of the countries'. Article 4 of the State Law provides for its settlement "within the framework of a mandate relationship with the competent authorities." In my opinion, therefore, this is a matter of country. Furthermore, in the explanatory memorandum under point 3.3.6, the following is acknowledged: "The proposal of law thus provides a modern framework to ensure (...) the interests of all the countries of the Kingdom, without prejudice to the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the external relations of the Kingdom'. There is therefore no room for countries to regulate the relevant country issues in national legislation. That's what the state law says. This should also be based on Article 38. That is why I have tabled an amendment to extend the basis. The Aruban Government also wishes to comment on the dispute settlement under Article 15 (2). This is unsatisfactory at a time when there are insufficient safeguards in the State Council to deal with a dispute. A reference to the discussion on the establishment of an independent dispute settlement under Article 38 of the Staff Regulations is sufficient. As we all know, there is a great deal of work going on in order to come up with a settlement of disputes in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr Van Laar, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u84	I have a question about the amendment tabled by the Government of Aruba. Mr Accounting says that there must be a double basis, but what difference does it make? The fundamental question is for whom this will make a difference. For someone applying for a visa? For an Aruban? For whom does it make a difference if there is a double or a single basis in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u85	It matters because we want such a state law to be based on legislation or a provision in the Statute. We see that many things are regulated in this state law. This is also necessary in order to be able to work properly with what are actually land issues. In order to have a basis for this, we believe that the extension of Article 38 is indeed necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u86	Then there is still the question of who makes the difference when that basis is appointed as Article 38 (3) or only in Article 3. What will change if we adopt this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u87	It matters to all of us whether we base a law on a basis of the Statute. I can also reverse the question: who cares if we expand this? It does matter in the sense that the state law is well covered, because we also deal with matters that are actually land affairs. We will not have a dispute about that. There must also be consultation and discussion on land issues in the implementation of legislation. If the state law is based on Article 38, the countries are obliged to consult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u89	Madam President. One of the most beautiful parts of the work of the Foreign Minister is that he is also a Minister of State; I share this with my colleague in the defence sector. This means that we regularly go to the islands for intensive consultations on external relations. The consultations often concern visas and, of course, matters relating to relations with neighbouring countries, including Venezuela. I think it is a special privilege that today we have the opportunity to discuss this law with the members of the States of Aruba. In that sense, this is a very nice afternoon. Let me also say something about this law and the questions that have been asked about it. After a wide period of preparation, the examination of the proposal for a Rijksvisum law has been made so far that the time for plenary proceedings has arrived in the Chamber. That is a good thing, not only because it marks a new step in the decision-making process of the Rijksvisum Act, but also because I look forward to this exchange of views. It is important to keep in mind in the discussion of this Rijksvisa law that it does not concern the European part of the Kingdom, nor the Schengen visa, but only the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. I shall come back to the point raised by the spokesperson of the PVV Group. I will briefly address the points raised by the spokesmen: the establishment of the law, the characteristics of the law, the dispute with countries on the statutory basis of the law, the implementation practice and the amendments tabled. Another element has been added to the debate on Venezuela. I will begin with the implementation of the Rijksvisum Act. The reason for this bill is the bill amending the Foreigner's Act 2000. The preparation has been carried out in very good consultation with the representatives of the countries. Many of the results of this consultation and the input of the countries have been reflected in this proposal. The proposal builds on the practice and I think it also does justice to the interests of the countries. In addition, I think the proposal reflects the powers of the Minister of Foreign Affairs with regard to safeguarding the interests of the kingdom. I am not here for the Netherlands; I am here for the Kingdom, for all of you. In fact, no agreement has been reached on the statutory basis in the National Council of Ministers. It was therefore decided by a majority vote. At the visa-working conference we held with all the countries of the Kingdom, each time we understood each other's views, the division of roles was discussed. The basic definition is really the point that has continued to lead to abrasion. The people present have just heard the Minister responsible for this matter. Arguments for the benefit of the country's interest, such as tourism or economic relations, can really conflict with arguments for the importance of the kingdom. I am thinking here of bilateral relations, human trafficking or terrorism. This was also mentioned today in the debate in the Chamber. So there really is tension on this point. I would like to say something about this, also in view of the comments made by the Minister responsible for Aruba. I think that is at the heart of the difference. It's better to go straight ahead with that. In the drafting of kingdom law, the Statute provides two exclusive bases for each other. That is the first element of importance. You can't choose Article 3, first paragraph, and Article 38. You have to choose one; it's no different. Because the subject matter covered by the Rijksvisum Act is a kingdom matter, Article 3 has been chosen. This is supported by the opinion of the Council of State. This is because it concerns both aspects of foreign policy and the broad lines of entry and admission of foreign nationals. The Rijksvisum Act provides clarity about the division of powers and thus provides a framework for making good mutual agreements. The powers of the countries are laid down in Article 5 (1). I would like to point out that this article explicitly allows for national regulation in addition to the Rijksvisum Act. In this sense, there is therefore a complementarity. Now the countries consider that the basis for legislation, namely a system based on mutual cooperation, lies in Article 38 of the Statute. In practice, interests can clash. For example, people work in a country in the entertainment industry. On the one hand, this has an economic or tourist purpose, but on the other hand, it is logical that we should also look at, for example, the issue of trafficking in human beings. That's a kingdom power. We have also committed ourselves to this internationally. As a result, it makes sense for us to look at these issues from all angles. Kingdom interests and national interests can then collide. The co-basement of the National Visa Act on Article 38 has been discussed in detail in the National Council of Ministers. Perhaps this is still important for the explanation on our part, including for colleagues from different countries. This concerns both aspects of foreign policy and the broad lines of entry and admission of foreign nationals. It's also in the pieces. I really think it is important to emphasise this here. In this you cannot base anything on two articles. A provision cannot be based on Articles 3 and 38 at the same time. Only if a national law regulates kingdom matters as well as matters of land can a provision be based on a double basis. With each individual provision you have to check whether it is based on Article 3 or Article 38. However, that is not at all the issue here. After all, the Rijksvisum Act exclusively regulates kingdom matters and leaves the countries the room to regulate matters of land law. So that's really something else. It's an exclusive kingdom business. This should therefore also be based on Article 3. In this sense, this cannot be in line with the amendment tabled by the Minister responsible for Aruba in respect of item No. 16. In the explanatory statement to the amendment, the author states that "attribution of a visa for Aruba is a matter of country'. Let this be one of the principles of the National Visa Act. The law recognises in Article 1 (f) that the competent authority for issuing a visa is the country authority. The conclusion can only be that the Rijksvisum Act does not regulate anything that should be regulated by the countries under the Staff Regulations. That's not a matter of taste or what we happen to think fit better. No, it depends on the matter that needs to be regulated. It's really a kingdom matter. Dan supports a state law based on Article 3. In that sense, we do indeed have a difference of opinion and for that reason the National Council of Ministers has decided in the way I have indicated. Although the issue is a matter of kingdom, the law does as much justice to the interests of the countries as possible and gives them the powers to do so. Article 5, first paragraph explicitly provides the scope for national regulation in addition to the Rijksvisum Act. National rules may include rules on the application of review criteria such as public order, national security, public health and sufficient means of subsistence. That is precisely what matters to the countries. In addition, the competent authorities of the countries have the possibility of granting a visa in special cases by way of derogation from these rules if it serves an essential interest of the country. There is therefore also a possibility of meeting the wishes. The competent authorities of the countries shall determine the period of validity of the visa and may attach to it a period of residence. Although the National Visa Act applies in principle to a Caribbean visa of the three countries and public bodies, the national authorities may refuse collusion for their country from the point of view of public policy or national security. Despite the fact that it is by definition a kingdom issue and therefore Article 3 applies, the powers of the countries are incorporated into implementation practice in all kinds of forms. As a result, the interests you represent can be directly represented. The law is in fact a reflection of existing practice. The Rijksvisum Act will therefore not bring about any major changes; I actually think almost none. The national authorities shall have the power to decide on visa applications. This power of decision is mandated to the posts. There are agreements on the implementation of visas for the countries. I think that these are a number of important elements to mention once again. Mr Van Laar asked if we have done much to reduce the differences with the countries. I think this is the case. The text of the National Law was drawn up in close consultation with the official delegations of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. Following this consultation, the law explicitly stated that the national authorities are the competent authority in the field of visa granting. In exercising their powers, they must take account of the importance of external relations. Delegation input has also resulted in explicit recognition that a visa is necessary but not sufficient for access. This is also important given a number of elements that have been raised this afternoon. Article 5, first paragraph, explicitly provides the scope for national regulation in addition to the Rijksvisum Act on all kinds of issues of interest to you, such as public health, national security, public order and sufficient means of subsistence. The competent authorities of the countries shall determine the period of validity of the visa. The principle of the law is that foreigners are subject to a visa requirement unless they are exempted from this requirement by ministerial regulation. The adoption of the exemption rule is a joint responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the national authorities. Finally, regular visa consultations between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the national authorities are legally guaranteed. So we can't just let it go for a while; that's definitely not my plan either. In that sense, not much is actually changing. It was important, however, to make this clear in a law and to lay it down in legislation in the light of the past. Then we have approached each other very closely through the close consultation. In practice, it does not really matter at all, but I do not see any possibility of changing the basis on which the law was drawn up, because it is not a mixed matter but a kingdom power, for the two reasons I have given earlier. It is important, however, to conduct the consultation properly. I am also convinced that we are going to do that and that we are not just believing each other's eyes. Of course, there is always the preparation of the National Council of Ministers. Disputes can also be dealt with there. At the same time, I have something with the idea of: if you really have a big problem, you should be able to discuss it. So I don't think you should come up with a separate arrangement. As a government, we are currently working, in particular the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, to bring about a settlement of disputes. I believe that this element could be an intelligent part of it. Then you actually meet what you wish for. Unfortunately, I have to reject the amendment on the basis for the reason I mentioned just now. Mr Bikker has advocated the inclusion of the option of introducing an electronic visa application procedure into the Rijksvisum Act. As far as I am concerned, this request refers to the digitisation of the visa process, as Foreign Affairs intends and is currently developing both to apply for a Schengen visa and to apply for a Caribbean visa. An electronic application for a Caribbean visa is expected in 2017. Inclusion in the Rijksvisum Act is not necessary, but I do not find it objectionable. The government is therefore happy to accept the amendment in question. We think it is a very good suggestion to strengthen this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u90	Is there any objection among Members to this amendment being accepted? I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u91	The Minister's response on this point is very positive. I just have some questions that we have asked ourselves in a different context. I was just talking about the Philippines, but that turned out to be Vietnam; I did a good job of checking that out. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs replies that there are problems with electronic delivery because the visa code requires something else. Let's just say we can at least do it here. That's a good thing. It is good that we can add it to the Rijksvisum Act and that the amendment is therefore successful. My follow-up question is then whether we can introduce biometrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u92	Yeah, that'd be nice. That's not something we're going to include in the law. I don't think that's necessary either. I do think that everything that contributes to further professionalisation and therefore safety is positive. I should like to take a more specific look at how and what and what it costs, but I think it is a direction that is certainly important. A number of questions were then asked concerning the situation in Venezuela. I share your analysis of the worrying situation in Venezuela. The impact of developments in Venezuela on the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom is very intense. I had the impression for a moment that some Members thought that this was not the case, but there are many aspects, such as security, coastguard and the number of people at risk from boats, where there is a great deal of consultation between the various countries and the government in The Hague. The current and possible future influx of Venezuelans into the Caribbean Kingdom parts is, of course, very intensively addressed. There is also an intensive exchange of information on what measures can be taken by and in the Kingdom. There is currently no request from Aruba regarding the introduction of the visa requirement for Venezuelans. It is true that, of course, we never rule anything out. Regular consultations with the countries on developments in Venezuela are taking place at official level. The introduction or abolition of the visa requirement for any nationality will, of course, always have an impact on the wider relationship with the country concerned. The same applies to a country like Venezuela. We are pursuing a policy on the issue of internal human rights violations in order to identify and identify the risks to neighbouring countries in particular. It has also been pointed out that different elements need to be weighed in the light of the visa requirement, not just the element I mentioned just now. The introduction of a visa requirement would be a real obstacle to a journey to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, but it is no guarantee at all that less bona fide or less wealthy travellers will stay away. To regulate influx, countries have the power to take measures themselves, such as stricter entry controls and a more stringent removal policy. That's something we talk about all the time. In practice, this is also applied. There is registration, as I say to Mr Ten Broeke, at the airports and along the sea roads. The Dutch Government, in the responsibility shared by the Minister of Defence and myself in relation to the security of the countries, has intensified the deployment of the coastguard and border controls. This is constantly monitored. There is also an arrangement with Venezuela regarding the return of people. There is also an arrangement regarding the possible reception of people, in particular the Red Cross Shelters. I find a number of elements of the asylum legislation that have been mentioned vulnerable. They can have a huge astringent effect. I think this is something you don't really want. It is really important to leave this to the government. We are looking very closely at this. Of course, we're looking at what's the most effective tool. The Dutch Government has no naivety in relation to the situation in the region. She has a very intensive diplomacy there, both with the kingdoms and the government of Venezuela and with allies in the region, so that we can keep an eye on what is happening there. On a number of points the figures are public, for example when it comes to people who come with boats. At present, that number is not growing. In a number of countries and with a number of elements, it is even declining. However, I do not think that is the most important point at the moment. It's not about daily or weekly measurements. I think that Mr Ten Broeke has rightly raised the issue of the need to always take account of other scenarios. So does the Dutch government. This also means that this is discussed very intensively in the context of our consultations with the territories, with the governments of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. For example, it is a question of low reception capacity. There is. I would like to remind you once again of the risks of an aspirant effect. I would really like to avoid it, because it is logical that there is very little now. It would be unwise to go in the wrong direction. The National Council of Ministers has been asked to send a letter on these matters. We will certainly deal with that. There are also figures on the removal of people, for example from Curaçao. The numbers of people who are sent back to Venezuela in this case are therefore registered. It's important that we share that concern with each other. This is rather complicated, as I say to Mr Ten Broeke. On the one hand, you have to build scenarios for different possibilities and take early enough measures. On the other hand, it is not necessary to take measures which would have an effect or make it more difficult for the countries to operate in relations with Venezuela and in their economic traffic and tourism. These are all things that the Dutch government weighs, along with the countries. We're very alert about that. There has also been regular consultations with the countries concerned. Scenarios are being built. As I said, the Coast Guard and the Ministry of Defence are also intelligently involved. Mr. Chairman. I thought that would have answered the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u93	There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u94	There is one more question from Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u95	Let us just say that it is a good thing that there is so much consultation and that we face the urgency. I don't believe anything about being registered. At least those fruit bars aren't registered. If there is anything at the airports other than letting people travel when they arrive with a one-way ticket, I would like to hear whether it is possible to issue a temporary visa on the spot. This was also possible in the past for Dutch people who went to Indonesia. You can issue a temporary visa at a low amount and prevent it from having negative economic consequences. Furthermore, those who come with a single ticket should actually be returned at the airline's expense. In these cases, we can have reasonable doubts as to why they are coming. There's no policy. As such, having a policy does not have an astounding effect. In fact, the lack of it only makes us vulnerable to procedures. In the past, we've seen the same thing. There is a reception of the Red Cross but there is no reference to it. In fact, only one asylum seeker has come forward in the past and went to prison instead of receiving the Red Cross. I think the Minister is putting out an image that does not quite correspond to what I have heard about reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u96	I can't do much about that. All I do is base myself on intensive consultations, reports, analyses, scenarios and talks with allies about the situation on the ground. I would like to share your view that we should be concerned about the situation and that we should not exclude any option to deal with it in an appropriate manner. That is really the only thing I could say about it right now. Another question has been asked about the arrest of Syrians. What measures is the government going to take? It is indeed a good thing that these people have been arrested, because that shows that something is happening on the ground. I believe that, if necessary, I can verify precisely that the judge has determined that these people must be deported from Saint Martin. They had traveled with false passports and were arrested at the border. This also indicates that there is indeed good control at the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u97	The Minister doesn't go into my suggestion. If we were to register at airports, that would be a little bit of profit. I believe, however, that we need to register across the board, not only in order to make the problem discussed, but also in order to identify and identify the problem. The Minister could very well discuss in the National Council the possibility of issuing visas on arrival, which was also the case in Indonesia in the past. The Minister can check whether the countries wish to participate. I would like him to do so, because that prevents the objection from materialising that it deters tourists. In particular, I would like to make sure that people who arrive with a single ticket and thus come with different intentions can at least be sent back immediately. As far as I am concerned, this also happens at the expense of the airline that took it. So I don't mean the people who come to exchange currencies so that they can continue for a few months in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u98	I have no problem with taking this suggestion with me to the consultations with the countries in the National Council of Ministers. We can take a closer look at that. We are always looking at all kinds of options, but this option is certainly interesting and I am happy to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u99	I did not hear the Minister say anything about the government's position on the amendment on mediation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u100	Maybe I didn't do that explicitly. I'd be happy to. I do not recommend that amendment, simply because I think it is superfluous. We already have a number of opportunities to discuss topics together. First of all, this is the regular consultation between the national governments and myself as Foreign Minister. Secondly, we can also use both the preparation and actual meetings of the National Council of Ministers. Thirdly, perhaps Mr Bikker thinks that this is even more important than these two methods, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations is in the process of settling disputes. I would suggest to the Minister that he take this element with him in an intelligent way, so that we can work on what Mr Bikker really wants. So I would not like to create a separate arrangement for this. Maybe I didn't do that explicitly. I'd be happy to. I do not recommend that amendment, simply because I think it is superfluous. We already have a number of opportunities to discuss topics together. First of all, this is the regular consultation between the national governments and myself as Foreign Minister. Secondly, we can also use both the preparation and actual meetings of the National Council of Ministers. Thirdly, perhaps Mr Bikker thinks that this is even more important than these two methods, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations is in the process of settling disputes. I would suggest that he take this element with him in an intelligent way, so that he can participate in what he wants. So I would not like to create a separate arrangement for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr De Roon has also tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u102	I find Mr De Roon's amendment very sympathetic in itself, but I am somewhat surprised that it comes from Mr De Roon. Because of his background he reads everything so well and it is also very clear. There's no misunderstanding about that. Article 1 states that a country is defined as Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. Article 2 states that the law applies to the granting of visas for access to countries and public bodies. For someone who doesn't read legal texts every day, this can't be different from what it says in that article, namely Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten and therefore not the Netherlands. This is also explained in the explanatory memorandum to Article 2. I would therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u103	The Minister's right. If you read the law correctly and look at everything in connection and coherence, that is indeed the conclusion. What I have tried to point out and what I ask the Minister's attention for is that the ordinary citizen does not look at these documents in that way, as a lawyer or as an experienced official. He just looks at Article 6 and thinks "whore, it could also apply to the Netherlands." In my amendment, I propose that this be made clear explicitly. My proposal does not alter the substance or scope of the legislative proposal. The Minister thinks it is unnecessary to do so, but I think it is an enlightenment to do so. I do not understand why the Minister would advise against it, because he could also leave it to the Chamber to decide. Why doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u104	I will not leave it to the Court for two reasons. I understand what Mr De Roon is saying, but there are two reasons not to. First of all, he underestimates the Dutch citizen. If something is clearly stated in an article for that, the Dutch citizen understands that too. Secondly, Dutch citizens generally do not spend all day explaining the law. Then you would have to include that in all the laws from now on in which even one way or another there would be an element that might not be understood directly. This would make an exception here that I do not think appropriate. For that reason, unfortunately, I must also advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term. I call Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his first-term replies and for the promised letter on the situation in Venezuela, which we requested last week in the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. It's good to hear it's coming. We can agree with the Minister when it comes to considering the basis of Article 3. I ask the Minister responsible for Aruba whether it is true what the Foreign Minister said, namely that this is actually the only difference of opinion on this law and that he agrees with the rest of the content of the law. The fact that he has only tabled an amendment on this point might indicate that, but I would like to hear it from him. I congratulate Mr Bikker on accepting his amendment by the Minister. That's a great success he can take home. I would like to stress that we do not recognise ourselves in the picture that the VVD first outlined of the situation in Aruba. From that argument, I understand the concerns in the Caribbean countries that this might get out of hand. If the Minister were to take decisions in the same way by misidentifying the situation in a Caribbean country and then suddenly introducing a visa, it would completely ignore the interests of the country in question. I understand that there are not even 150,000 visitors from Venezuela but half a million a year. That's about half of the visitors who don't come by cruise ship to Aruba. Then I understand that the countries have concerns about the exact way in which that is going. Fortunately, we recognise ourselves in the sensible course of the government and do not worry about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u107	A brief comment by Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u108	The naivety of the PvdA in recent years when it comes to migration is proverbial. That doesn't bother me. Mr Van Laar has heard from the Minister that my suggestion for a visa on arrival is taken seriously. I suppose I have his support for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u109	I didn't have to. It may well be looked at, but we have no illusion that with a visa we can stop even one illegal refugee in a boat or an asylum seeker. That illusion is just not right. Also the suggestion that there is no registration, that people are not registered and that there is no return is simply wrong. The situation in Aruba is, in fact, very different from what you are describing here, Mr Ten Broeke. You're deaf to anyone who tries to tell you that here, and we're not deaf to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u110	This discussion has been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u111	The illusions which the Labour Party generally has are well known to me. There has been a significant increase in recent years there. That was admitted here, too. I am not just saying that, but the people who have spoken here and who have seen it with their own eyes say so. I did not just propose to look at the granting of visas, because that is ultimately a matter for the country, which I have been very clear about. The suggestion I made is being taken over. It is no more than a suggestion, but there are a few points: registration, policy, reception. Unfortunately, I would say to Mr Van Laar that you cannot deny the case that I have outlined here this afternoon, of the one Syrian refugee who has at least properly reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u113	That was a case on Curaçao. We are mainly talking about Aruba here. Those things shouldn't be confused. As I said, Mr Ten Broeke's situation does not exist in Aruba. That's just not right. We do not recognize this and therefore we do not recognize it in its considerations. We do not support the other two amendments, which I have not yet discussed. We never support any of the PVV's amendments. As far as Mr Bikker's amendment is concerned, we are well aware of the way in which it has been done so far and we are confident that it will continue to work. Therefore, no support for that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Herdé. He speaks on behalf of the AVP from Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Minister responsible for explaining things. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs in particular for clarifying the law and the area he says is present in the law for its own policy, for its own interests. There is no fear if we say that we wish to hold on and support the amendment tabled by the Minister responsible. It is, as has been said more often, legislation, and it must be forward-looking. You try to avoid situations and take into account all the interests that exist. We cannot deny that the Statute clearly defines the tasks of the Empire, but it has been shown several times that in situations not covered by Article 3, the Council of State says: that is one of the tasks of the country. Nevertheless, you say that this proposal of law was made in good consultation. We welcome that. As far as the situation in Venezuela is concerned, I fully agree with what Mr Van Laar said. The image that Mr Ten Broeke is trying to sketch, by the way, using my own words, is completely incorrect. I invite Mr Ten Broeke and all of you to come to Aruba and see how he is registered there. If the days you apply for are exceeded, you can count on the police knocking on your door. So I do not share his concerns, and the picture he wants to create of the situation in Aruba is completely unknown to us. I think he doesn't know the real situation and repeat my invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the reply of the Minister and the Minister responsible. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the useful debate this afternoon. Perhaps just a few more moments about the images that I think Mr Herdé himself has drawn up. I didn't, you did! I must say that I have heard it not only from him, but also from others. I haven't been to the islands yet. This debate has given me an open invitation. You could end up worse in a debate. As soon as the opportunity arises, I will certainly make use of it. The point is just that I am also saying to the colleague of the Labour Party that the image of migration was completely denied last year. There was no migration at all. Since then, we have seen a development that can also go very quickly. We have seen this on the Mediterranean. Now I'll make the equation. I do not think that migration will take place directly in these quantities, but we cannot completely avoid that migration may increase. It has already increased over the past year, this has just been indicated not only with fruit bars by sea, but also through the airport. Visas as such are not panaceas. That is why I have also proposed that there should be no reference to it in both policies, preferably more restrictive ones, if there is adequate reception, but in the event that I have just referred to Curaçao, my motion will therefore be on both islands if enforcement is to be foreseen. If we do nothing about it, Mr Herdé will be empty-handed and vulnerable to procedures and migratory flows which are already underway and which cannot be ruled out with the situation in Venezuela. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the crisis in Venezuela has already led to the influx of migrants and may lead to far greater numbers of migrants;]] [[noting that the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao do not or hardly record the extent and character of migration from Venezuela to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom;]] [[noting that the importance of the adoption of preparatory measures is also underlined in Aruba and Curaçao;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao to actively register migration, to strengthen the admission and screening of Venezuelans and to develop immediately restrictive migration and asylum legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32415-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u117	In accordance with the nature, spirit and also the letter of the law that we are discussing today, I did not include in the motion any suggestion about the granting of visas, because it is ultimately a national responsibility to give it precise meaning. The only thing I could do for that was to ask Minister Koenders if he would like to bring this into the National Council of Ministers. That commitment has now been received and I hope that it can count on the support of Mr Herdé.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u118	I give the opportunity to put short questions, Mr Herdé, because this is the second term and there has already been a great deal of discussion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u119	I note that Mr Ten Broeke does not distinguish between a normal situation, with normal registration and enforcement, and a situation with a neighbouring country of 30 million people who may lead to special situations that cannot be foreseen at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u120	A brief response, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u121	With everything that's missing, you're gonna be empty-handed. I refer again to your own words in the first term and the image you yourself have outlined and what I have heard confirmed by many. There is no policy and there is not enough registration. I am not saying that there is no registration; you did not hear me say that either, because there is no registration in those fruit bars. If there is registration at the airports, this could also be followed by policy. You yourself have found that there is also an undesirable migration. The moment it grows, you shouldn't be naive. When you see a country with 30 million inhabitants sailing in half an hour a minister on your island has even said: at swimming distance see implode, the chance is not imaginary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u122	Finally, Mr Herdé.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u123	There is a clear difference between the picture of little registration that Mr Ten Broeke puts here and the normal situation of registration at seaports and airports. Mr Ten Broeke is abusing my image of a situation in the neighbouring country, which could possibly lead to a special situation in Aruba. Mr Ten Broeke refuses to accept that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u124	But you did make your point. In short, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u125	I always accept reality. My image is opposite the images drawn in first and second terms by the honourable Member himself. Later it will become clear whether he was right in his first or second term. I'm not ruling out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u126	We share the concerns of the VVD about the situation in Venezuela, including the concerns about the migratory flows that can trigger it. That's not the point. It is about the image you are sketching of Aruba, namely that there is no registration there. You say that you did not say that, but it is even stated in your motion: 'not or hardly registered'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u127	You know the word "barely."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u128	The honourable delegates say it is wrong, the Minister says it is wrong and I know it is wrong, because I have been there a number of times. However, you are holding on and you are tabling a motion on it. I'd say visit first and then file a motion. Then we all know what we're talking about. This sketch of the situation is not correct and on that basis you cannot table any motions. At least, I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u129	It doesn't say "no." I've already adapted it. It says "not much or nothing." There's no active registration. It is also something quite different than registering tourists and then only at the airports. I have great doubts as to whether this is being done properly. That information's there, too. There may be a formal possibility, but that does not mean that everyone is always actively registered. There's formal shelter, too. There's a Red Cross Healer. The Minister referred to it. There is one asylum seeker and the authorities failed to get that one asylum seeker to that one asylum seeker. I rest my case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u130	Not only is it not true that there is little or no registration, but, moreover, I believe that Mr Ten Broeke is in fact indirectly expressing an opinion on the control that the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao do or do not exercise. That's what we're about and not the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u131	Short reaction, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u132	No. In the end, you are dealing with that; we are simply seeing a fact. However, the threats or the consequences that could arise from them concern the whole of the Kingdom. I refer to Mr Koenders' first-term reply. In my opinion, he has made it clear more than clear why this is covered by Article 3 and why matters such as trafficking in human beings and migration really concern the whole of the Kingdom. That's why we're talking about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u133	If we allow this, we'll be in a very dangerous area. The powers remain with the parliaments of Aruba and Curaçao and not with the House of Representatives, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u134	You're summoning another ghost who isn't there. I'm very neat at what I leave a matter of country. I have just shown this with my suggestion on the method of visa application. It's being discussed right now, and I'm making no more than a suggestion. That point is not in the motion either. I am quite clear about what I see as a potential threat to the Kingdom and, first and foremost, to the countries concerned. That is not denied in the countries themselves either. That's not denied by you either, which is why you should do something about it. At the moment, there is no policy on the islands. There is insufficient registration, there is no screening and there is no reception. I'm just gonna take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yeah, but you're really falling into repetition. Mr. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u136	That is indeed denied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u137	Good. Thank you, Mr Ten Broeke. I now give the floor to Mr Thijsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. There is one question that he has not answered in my opinion, namely the one on the protocol. The protocol was concluded between the Netherlands and Aruba in 2003. The Minister bases himself on the fact that the basic Article 3 or Article 38 must be chosen. It can't be both. This issue has already been raised in 2010. I quote the then Justice Minister Hirsch Ballin. During the debate on this subject, he said the following. "If the National Visa Act on 10-10-10 has not yet taken effect, the current visa practice will continue on the basis of the sovereign decision I have just referred to." I therefore assume that the Netherlands, which is a large part of the kingdom government, is based on what has been agreed in the past. Most of the ministers of the Netherlands are on the kingdom ministers' council, we have the authorised minister. It concerns Article 38 and the mutual arrangement. In the past, they have decided to solve certain problems, such as the fight against terrorism, through a protocol. That has had very good results. Now we're working on the Rijksvisum Act again. It's not October 10, 2010, but it's 2016. What are we gonna do now? We have a choice now. I think we should be consistent. So we should not force Article 3. Let's go back through Article 38 to protocol, just like in the past. Then we can solve the problems together. I hear from the chairman that I have to finish. I support the advocacy of the Minister. So I would like the Minister to explain why he is not using the protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The Minister pointed out why Article 38 could not serve as a basis. I believe that Article 9 does indeed touch on land issues. That is why Article 38 should also serve as a basis. In fact, it lists what the competent authority in the countries should do. Legally, it's called a bound order. I like hybrid solutions. People are always talking about the introduction of a visa requirement and so on. The country we travel most to is the United States. The Kingdom of the Netherlands is subject to a visa requirement in the United States. However, we have come up with a very nice solution, namely an exemption through the ESTA. I would ask the Minister to consider this as a hybrid solution. That is what I am asking, especially given the fact that electronic visa applications are visible on the horizon. Finally, I come to the amendment on mediation. I do not want the efforts of the kingdom government to bring about an overall dispute settlement to be unnecessarily delayed by my proposal for some sort of alternative dispute resolution. That is why I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u140	The Bikker amendment c.s. (Part No 15) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u141	I would like to thank the Kingdom Government for accepting the amendment to item No. 14 with regard to the electronic application. I am very grateful for that. I would also like to thank her once again for answering the questions. Finally, I would like to comment on Mr Ten Broeke's motion. I think it is contrary to Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. Apart from the fact that this motion contains factual inaccuracies, it is factually incorrect that there is no legislation on migration and asylum in the countries which is contrary to the scope of the national legislation we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their input into the first term. I found it enlightening on many points, especially with regard to the question of what is a matter of state and what a matter of country. So thank you for that. I would just like to comment on the threat posed by Venezuela by the very bad situation in which the country is in. I have said that I would prefer that we quickly introduce a visa obligation for Venezuelans. I do that as a PVV spokesperson from the thought of "better safe than sorry." The Foreign Minister said: I am not going that far, because I have to take all kinds of interests into account, but don't worry; we are on top of it together with the national governments and other partners in the region and, if necessary, we can intervene further. The PVV says it's better safe than sorry. But if things go wrong in Venezuela and that tsunami of Venezuelans gets over the islands, then we are too late and then the government, the Dutch government and the government of the islands are going to be very "sorry."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u143	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their two-term questions. Actually, there haven't been a lot of questions asked. One motion has been tabled and a number of comments have been made relating to the different position provisions. I think we simply do not agree on the subject covered by the Rijksvisum Act. I really want to do my best. I am truly convinced that there is a hybrid situation in practice. I have explained the division between the responsibility laid down in the law and its implementation and the enormous possibilities that the countries have within their own responsibilities to implement it. I don't think we're gonna get out of there. I would, however, like to say, also to what you represent and to those you represent, that this hybrid element will be filled in as much as possible. This also applies to working on the possibility of making it part of a dispute settlement in an intelligent way. At the same time, as the Minister of the Kingdom, I cannot escape the fact that there is a responsibility on my part. It's not just mine, it's yours, too. That is what I wanted to say about the key issue on which there is still a difference of opinion. A further question has been asked about the ESTA possibilities. That point can be investigated in line with visa on arrival. ESTA is for non-visa bets, for example for Dutch people who go to the United States. We have to be very precise about that. You could say it's some kind of pre-registration. I say to Mr Ten Broeke that we will look again at whether that is a good solution. The question is whether this means contributes to the discussion that has taken place on this subject, but we can of course be open to that. I cannot make any commitments about this at the moment, but I have listened with interest to this suggestion. I believe I also said why I want a state law and not protocol. In our opinion, there is either-or, not and-and. The importance of granting visas requires clarity on the broad lines of policy and the allocation of competences. That is why I insist that it should be a state law based on Art. 3. Mr De Roon said: better safe than sorry. This is generally the case in crisis policy. I think it is wrong to conclude from this afternoon's debate that there is a difference of opinion between the government and, for example, Mr De Roon, because we are not only monitoring very closely, but also looking very closely at the most effective measures to see as closely as possible the consequences of the situation in Venezuela, a neighbouring country 20 kilometres away, for the situation on the islands. So it's not like the government sits back and thinks: well, that's all going to happen; that's why we don't do visas. Of course, it's not like that. I have said that the government rules on the basis of an accurate analysis of the situation and on the basis of what we think is most sensible. I have told you about cooperation in the region in the area of the coastguard, of registration and of a number of other elements relating to our policy throughout the Western hemisphere. Sometimes you don't want to go into that in detail. We are very aware of what is happening there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u145	Are you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u146	No, I'm not done. But you want me to finish, so that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u147	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u148	In the light of the foregoing, I am somewhat concerned with Mr Ten Broeke's motion on item No. 18. I want to know exactly what he means. I understand and understand a great many things in the motion, but they are simply not right. For that reason, I should discourage the motion. I have no problem with working actively on the elements raised by Mr Ten Broeke. That is why we are here today in a joint debate; I also spoke about it with the Minister responsible. Nevertheless, I have difficulty with a number of elements. For example, it is factually wrong that there is no asylum policy on Aruba. Nor is it the case that there is little or no record on a number of points. I've just checked that, including with the authorized minister. Maybe it could be different. We need to take different scenarios into account. In this sense, there are a number of things that we are obviously looking at. The observation that little or no registration is made is incorrect. It's hard for me to take over. The motion also states that "the government requests the authorities of Aruba and Curaçao to actively register migration." This is done. Perhaps some elements can be improved, but that is also a subject we are discussing with the government of both Aruba and Curaçao. I have just said that we are discussing a number of things in the National Council of Ministers about "enhancing the admission and screening of Venezuelans." Those cases are therefore unnecessary. Finally, the motion says "to develop directly restrictive migration and asylum legislation," but there is asylum policy in Aruba. I would also point out that this is a matter of country. I do have some ideas on this, but there will have to be an active focus in the mutual consultation between the authorised ministers in Aruba and Curaçao, who have heard today's debate. Perhaps it makes more sense to think about whether we are going to continue the dialogue with the countries on these three points. If the motion remains that way, I must, unfortunately, discourage her because there are a number of elements in it that are not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u149	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u150	The central point of the motion is, of course, that the Minister shares with me the need to strengthen and activate, at least in the first period of time, the measures for admission, removal and screening. It has to be done. The minister says there's hardly any registration. The images are different about that. I can get that consideration out of you. If that takes away the problem, then that's no problem. I am concerned about the development of policies. If the Minister says that there is a coherent legislation on migration and asylum, I think there is a need for that. This is particularly true in the context I mention here, namely that the legislation should be restrictive. I disagree with the Minister that this cannot be called for. I ask the government to insist. That is not a request for the Minister to impose it; he then insists on it. This is entirely in line with the possibilities offered by the Minister. Let me take out the observation on registration, which is apparently contested. In the operative part, where there is talk of active registration, it can be included that it can be improved where possible. In my view, then, the motion corresponds reasonably to the commitment which I would like to see from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u151	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u152	This is considered quite differently here, and for that reason I am happy to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u153	That is a very long interruption, and I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u154	We can, of course, comment on the motion, but all I can suggest is that the motion be rewritten and that I give a written opinion to the Chamber. As the motion has now been formulated, including the improvements made in it by Mr Ten Broeke, I must advise against it. Unfortunately, it still states that we need to tighten up the admission and screening of Venezuelans and develop immediately restrictive migration and asylum legislation. First of all, I'm concerned that it's a matter of country. Secondly, we are talking about this now. In that sense, the motion is superfluous. Thirdly, there is asylum policy. The question is how this policy might need to be adapted. That means consultation with Aruba and Curaçao. If I may read the motion in this way, the motion is superfluous and then I will enter into that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u155	Mr Ten Broeke, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u156	I'll change the motion. It certainly does not seem superfluous to me in view of the remarks made here. This is not undisputed; that is clip-and-ready. I will remove the offensive considerations because the facts are already disputed in themselves. The operative part, in which I call on the Minister to urge the National Council of Ministers to make screening and the like possible, will be amended. I would like to see a response from the government, which is a bitter necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u157	Only, the votes are Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u158	Yeah, Tuesday. Then we can do it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u159	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mr. Chairman. In the second term, I do not want to make any further comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u161	Madam President. On Mr Van Laar's question, I would like to say explicitly that the Government of Aruba has expressed its opposition to two points. This concerns the statutory basis and the dispute settlement provided for in Article 15. For the rest, the Government of Aruba supports the Rijksvisum Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-09-tweedekamer-6.u162	This brings us to the end of the debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister responsible for Aruba, Mr Accounting. I would also like to thank the special delegates from Aruba for their presence and their participation in this debate. I wish them a very good trip back.
