ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Today we are discussing the first term on the part of the government, the second term on the part of the Chamber and then the second term on the part of the government. I see the Minister is already ready to give answers. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I think it would be good for the Chamber to know how I built up my speech: in four cubes. After a brief general introduction, I will first talk about the decent labour market and I will address questions about flex and fixed and false constructions. The second block deals with the support of job seekers, the service provided by UWV and what is related to it. The third block is about purchasing power and income policy. The fourth block deals with integration and the participation of refugees. If anyone feels the urge to interrupt, it can be helpful to know how I built it. The Secretary of State will then, if you allow her to chair, deal with the subjects entrusted to her. I am delighted to be standing here today. It was when I first stood here four years ago, and it is today. That is not least because of the enthusiasm, the thorough preparation and the sharpness in the contributions of the Members of Parliament that I was able to listen to yesterday. That always makes this one of the best debates. I would like to thank this fourth time for one second our officials, who are equally passionate, keen and motivated in terms of content, always helping us to answer written questions and prepare debates of this kind. I think that the Netherlands should be grateful for the official support of quality as we know it here. Of course, such a fourth budget is always a look back and a look ahead at the same time. That's what you noticed yesterday in the first installment. So it is good to consider how we were four years ago when we met in this Chamber. At the time, the Netherlands was not doing well and the prospects were worse if possible. Many people threatened to lose their jobs and thus their grip on life. This was symbolized by the fact that many of you were standing there at the Square in Rijnsburg, where we met the flowerbinders of Sierafor from Rijnsburg. They were fired, and on their way to the exit they met the Polish temporary workers who came to take over their jobs. The crisis then occurred in all kinds of forms. Our direct mission, of course, was to put things in order as quickly as possible and to make sure that everything that went in the wrong direction would go back in the right direction. At times like that, you get to know your friends. It was a bad time for the Netherlands, but it did loose the best in the Dutch polder, but also in cooperation with political parties. I am very proud that at that time, 2012/2013, we managed to reach a social agreement and that we managed to work together, even outside the coalition itself, by connecting with other parties. It was very important that this succeeded then, at the low point of the crisis. Four years later it is not only a lot better with the Netherlands, if you look at the figures, but also the prospects are much better. The arrows that were pointing down now point up. I think this offers a lot of people more perspective and more hope for the coming time. In recent years we have not only been concerned with the weather forecast of the day, but also with the wider climate that needs to be improved: a different kind of climate in the Netherlands, with less discrimination and more connection. Not a narrow tundra, in which we only work to survive, but a labour market where you also enjoy good work. A climate in which work and care can go together. It is about decent work and decent wages, which also value the value of work. This required major and structural adjustments, which had often been put forward for too long. There were many areas of legislation that were lagging behind changing attitudes in society, ranging from father's care tasks to young people's pay. Ranging from a system of youth wages which had not changed since 1983 to our right of dismissal, which had not been amended since 1946. It was also necessary to look at the legal status of flex workers, at the importance we attach to permanent jobs and at a fairer, cheaper, faster and simpler right of dismissal. That also occurred in thinking differently about labor and care. We need to stop with the box spirit that makes sure there's only lice mothers and no lice fathers. It shouldn't be normal for the woman to always take a step back for the children, instead of making arrangements together. All these elements were already playing, and we worked hard on all these elements, including the iron law that ministers should not celebrate Saint Martin. We have talked a lot about discrimination in the labour market, and that was urgently needed. Yesterday, too, this was highlighted in the first term of the Chamber. If we make demands on people and are strict with those who settle here, this also includes giving people a real chance and taking tough action against discrimination. I actually heard that from all the parties yesterday in their input. And yes, there is also a need for a climate change in Brussels. There were violent reactions at the time to the signal I gave off with that code orange. You can also see a change of tone and a change of attitude. That is very important, because it is about what is just in Dutch society. You can see the changes that are taking place here and there. For the first time since 2009, there has been an increase in the number of permanent employees. That was discussed yesterday. It is really no reason to hang out, I agree with the Members of Parliament, but it is very important. Not so long ago the employers also said: no one gets a fixed contract anymore. At least this is now being lied to by practice. That's no reason to be satisfied. We want much more together, but it is an important trend break. The same goes for the joy that arose when agreement was reached on the increase in youth wages, and for the tears of happiness that I have seen, literally tears of happiness, with cleaners who joined the government. And although the truckers kept it dry, I liked that I got a ride from them to the Tower, merely to let them hear their message there. More than that, it didn't mean "thank you" for the law that was made here against the exploitation of truck drivers and unfair competition. If you look at the social climate, the picture is double. Sometimes a murky polar wind blows on Twitter and Facebook, which affects many in society, but also politicians. However, it is also true that we dare to talk much more about issues that we may have been able to share in the past. Discrimination, ethnic profiling, but also problems of integration, radicalisation and terrorism, the arrival of refugees and what that means, and yes, even the future of Piet. Those are just a few topics. When you see the social discussion, there is cause for concern because of the brutality and hardening, but here and there there is also reason for optimism. If we look at it now, and go back to the numbers and the facts...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u5	No, Mr De Graaf, I am not giving you the floor. I'm very sorry, but I still want the Minister to be able to continue. You will certainly have the opportunity to ask a question later, but I would suggest that the Minister conclude his general introduction. After that, you will be the first to have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u6	If you look at today's figures, because that remains important, you can see that unemployment is falling every month, that there are more vacancies, that there are more people with paid employment and that people also work more hours. Fortunately, since October 2015, we are also seeing the unemployment rate among older people decline, which is a major concern in this Chamber. Since the turning point in early 2014, 250,000 jobs have been created. Over the last seven years, there have never been so many young people in employment and unemployment has not fallen as quickly as in the past ten years. Companies dare to invest again, people dare to spend money again. Purchasing power is more fairly distributed. People have more to spend. We live in a time when things are getting better, but far from feeling good everywhere. I think the concerns of many Dutch people require our attention. One of these indicators, Mrs Karabulut, spoke of this yesterday, is the gnawing uncertainty that people feel about what is coming towards us. How's the job security going later? How will public finances be in the future? How about the robots who want to work 24 hours a day without pay and no grumbling? How is society, our identity and the way we deal with each other? Not the favourable figures, but this gnawing feeling shows that we should not be satisfied with our laurels and that we should continue working on a modern decent labour market and a modern connecting society. Then you should not cling to mere wisdom from the past, but build on it. That shows the fine words of Syb Talma quoted by Mr Heerma yesterday as far as I am concerned. No, people should never become machines. It was 100 years ago, and it still is. However, we must realise that machines are becoming more and more like people and that this raises new questions. We need more Syb Talmas in our future. In addition to his vision, he was also a connector. He was someone who dared to look over the walls of his own booth. You can see that now, 100 years later, very well, but at that time he was not grateful. He was known in his own circle as a progressive red minister, while in the socialist and communist corner he was seen as a traitor to the working class. He himself said: "It happened to me that one day I was called a socialist and the other evening a black-suited slipper carrier of capitalism." 100 years later, it turns out to be a compliment. Those words are also up-to-date. This is also apparent from the sharp points of the debate yesterday. I found Mr Marcouch's binding contribution on this point to show that, in addition to words, it is about achieving a society in which everyone can feel at home. Even though short-sighted people who cannot look over the walls of their own booth may see that even different today, that will have to be done later. Mr. Chairman. I come to the decent labour market, the first block of answering the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u7	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u8	I thank the Minister for his general introduction. He talked about the future of Piet. I like that very much. My father is 78 years old and hasn't had the impression for the past four years that the minister was worried about his future or worried about his future. Or did the Minister mean Black Pete?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr President, will you convince Mr De Graaf that I wish his father a long, beautiful and healthy life? However, I was indeed talking about the social debate on Black Piet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you for the first words and also for the second. I'm glad to hear it's Black Pete. That's just what the Minister said. So Black Piet has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u11	The Minister is talking about a sense of uncertainty. He mentioned a number of positive developments and outlined for the future that things should be better. I have one pressing question for the Minister. That's what I asked him yesterday. If you look at the state of the country, you can see that Rutte II, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, is also responsible for a growing gap. The managers receive a salary, while the employees in care have to get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u12	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u13	Those with the highest incomes will receive €50, while those with the lowest incomes will receive €10. That's not just a feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u14	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u15	This has also been the policy of this Rutte/Asscher cabinet, with 80% of it declining and 20% progressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u17	The question to the Deputy Prime Minister is whether he also takes responsibility for this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u18	Look at what has been done in the crisis years, in which the Dutch people have been asked terribly much because they had to make huge cuts, by this cabinet to ease that pain and to distribute it fairly. I'll take full responsibility for that. One can see, for example, that the rise in income for workers with the lowest incomes has been five times higher than for workers with the highest incomes thanks to government policies. Of course, the highest incomes benefit more from autonomous developments, such as low mortgage interest rates and contract wage increases. However, it is precisely the policy of the cabinet that has been aimed at sharing the pain fairly, despite the enormous sacrifices that have been made. I think you should note that with a great deal of effort and a great deal of pain that has also been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u19	If this is the definition of "fair sharing" of the Deputy Prime Minister, then I fear he is full of good intentions but he is carrying out the bad. The result of the policy is that there have been more insecure jobs, that wages have fallen, that the rich have become richer, that the poor have become poorer and that the summit has continued to enrich itself. When the vice prime minister embraces that, he is VVD-light, as he called Rutte PVV-light. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mrs Karabulut did not ask a question, but colored the answer I just gave in her own way. Of course, that's her right. I would like to point out that this cabinet has prepared legislation to clarify the accountability of higher incomes over top salaries and to give participation a greater role. I would also like to point out that outside the Czech Republic there is no country in the European Union where there is less chance of poverty and exclusion. Partly because of the policy, not only of the cabinet, but of different parties, there is no country in Europe where that chance is less. I would also point out that in those four years, despite the enormous economic crisis, income inequality has not increased on balance. I do agree with Mrs Karabulut that we still have a problem, because there is a great deal of uncertainty about inequality. That remains a huge issue. I heard yesterday that everyone in the debate expressed their concerns about this, but that the alternatives offered...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u21	Let me see if there are any more potential offenders in the public gallery. It's really cold, so I'd say don't take any clothes off. The Minister continues with his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u22	I get the impression that Mrs Voortman wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u23	That's true. Mrs. Voortman may ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u24	I don't think I can attract attention this way. Yes, you might want to, Mr Marcouch! I think we are going to talk about the difference between fixed and flex, because there is a separate part about that. I would like to come back to the difference between incomes. This cabinet has also chosen to give extra money to people with five modes. That money could have given it to people with benefits. The minister says we've given people who work more money. But people with benefits have hardly improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u25	I think there is a need for some adjustment. People with benefits have improved around 2% in this cabinet period. For example, if you look at the tax discount and the labour discount, you can see that people with low incomes are now getting around €3,000 more than at the beginning of the cabinet period, while people with high incomes are not getting those discounts at all. That is why they have fallen considerably. The policy's commitment was a balanced purchasing power policy. That's what we've been feeding each time. We sent a lot of updates in August. This year, in the next year's budget, we have allocated a considerable amount to improve the purchasing power of older people and beneficiaries. I therefore think that Mrs Voortman's statement is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u26	Then, in my turn, I would like to update the Minister. He says that benefit recipients have improved 2%. This has not been done thanks to cabinet policy. Those are just autonomous developments. I've got the table from the Department of Social Affairs in front of me here. The result of Rutte II's income policy is that benefit recipients have hardly improved. There is hardly any policy on this. Policies have indeed been pursued on high-income workers. This cabinet has thus given money to higher incomes wherever that could have been given to people with benefits. I do not think that is a matter of solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u27	I already get the impression, at the beginning of this first term, that Mrs Voortman and I may not agree on everything. Let me put these facts aside. You can see that a single person on the minimum wage is improving this cabinet period by 12.8%. The same single person advances 7.4% on a modal income and 4.6% on two modes. This is, in other words, a very significant increase for low-income workers, a significant increase for moderate-income workers and, yes, a limited increase for high-income workers. I fully agree with Mrs Voortman that, given the huge interventions that have taken place in recent years, huge sacrifices have been made and made by many people. I think that some of the pain of recent years, of austerity, of measures, is still felt. We all know that no point cloud or purchasing power picture can capture all the Dutch. But I insist that, in our income policy, we have always chosen to strike a balance. This meant in crisis years: more money to low incomes and less to high incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Asscher, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u29	In October, 502,000 people were unemployed. That's the lowest level in four years and there's 100,000 less than last year. These figures are important, because they are about security of existence and work contributes to self-development. It is also important because people with work usually stay healthy longer. That is why next year's policy will focus on these two key values: opportunities for all and good work. After all, the positive effects of work only apply when the work is good and of value. It's got to be more than just permanent work. It must be work that you can do with pleasure and passion, which is appreciated and offers opportunities to develop yourself. In that respect, I recognized a great deal in Mr Van 't Wout's fine speech. He told me how he had spoken to a number of entrepreneurs this summer. I think that the value of work is discussed in the same way as here in this Chamber. Those conditions of employment must be the same for everyone who does the same work, whether you are from Warsaw, Paris or Amsterdam or whether you are 22 or 23 years old. I quote Mr Van 't Wout again. He said: you're in politics anyway to solve things and move on. That has also been my guideline. I don't know exactly how many times Mr. Van't Wout has seen his wife lately. I hope he was somewhat overreacting yesterday, because we have not seen each other so often. However, I very much appreciate the fact that political parties are constantly trying to achieve things and compromise for the good. That doesn't just apply to the coalition parties. It is quite remarkable that this was achieved last spring. I am also grateful to Mrs Van 't Wout for making that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u30	You mean Mr Van 't Wout. Oh, no, you did refer to that in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr Van 't Wout has also done his best, but the personal sacrifice that has been made, he did not stress yesterday for nothing. The Work and Security Act shows that in recent years we have managed to take a large number of measures to tackle things that we do not like in the labour market. A new balance has been sought between security and flexibility. We also know that such a big change takes time to become commonplace in practice and work well. The right of dismissal has been amended for the first time in 70 years, flex rights for the first time in more than 10 years and the WW for the first time in a long time. It never shows all the results you'd like in one go. That applies to all major changes. I think it's important to realize that trade always attracts first and then the labour market. We also saw this in the past year: first an impetuous growth of the broadcasting sector and now growth in other sectors. There is a clear growth in the number of jobs and this fits in with the picture of a recovering labour market. From the interim report you can also get some encouraging signals. In the second and third quarters, even compared to a year ago, there was an increase in the number of permanent employees, but also a reduction in the cost of dismissal for employers. That was meant to be. Thus, it appears that the average remuneration granted by the court in the event of termination of the contract of employment is practically halved. The procedure times at the UWV. This sounds like technique, but it is extremely important for an employer................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If there are problems, we will solve them, together with social partners. For example, it is now possible for collective bargaining parties to be granted an exception to the chain clause for seasonal work. At present, a legislative proposal is before the Council of State to compensate employers for the costs they incur in the event of dismissal of a long-term disabled worker, but also to give collective bargaining parties more room to deviate from the transitional compensation due in the event of dismissal for business reasons. If you take stock of the situation, you will see that the law, including a number of necessary adjustments, makes sense in such a change too: improving the legal status of flex workers, more permanent jobs, even if it is too early to draw real conclusions about it, and a fairer, cheaper, faster and simpler right of dismissal. But the Law on Work and Security is not a magic wand. You will not hear me say that either, and we cannot expect that either, because in other areas too, there are bottlenecks in the labour market. Yesterday, payment of wages in the event of illness was discussed. Over the past year, the number of people in disability schemes has fallen sharply. We see that re-integration after illness is mostly working well. Nevertheless, employers experience bottlenecks in this obligation. In April, in consultation with the coalition groups and the social partners, we announced a number of measures to address these bottlenecks. This includes measures relating to the payment of wages. Before the end of this year, I will inform the Court of Auditors about the details of these measures. I realize, however, that yesterday was rightly reported that we are not there yet. Mr Heerma asked me about progress on this issue with the social partners. The ESC is currently working on an opinion on the labour market for the long-term unemployed and on the system of pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness. This opinion is part of a broader work agenda of the ESC. The ESC has announced that it will need more time than we hoped and thought a year ago, but the opinion will be ready in spring 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u32	I suggest that the Minister finish this section first, then you will have the opportunity to interrupt, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u33	Then I have a point of order. This is not going to be a debate if we all have to stay in our banks and then say something four times after a block. To be honest, I find that a rather unpleasant form of debate for a budget debate. I understand that you're trying to keep a little order, but I'm afraid this is frustrating any kind of debate. The Minister has broad blocks. That's what makes it very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u34	I understand, but we interrupted almost after every sentence yesterday. That does not make the debate clear either. If you are really planning to ask a question at the right time, this is going to be very dangerous, I might want to allow an interruption. In the first term, however, a lot of questions have been asked and it is also neat when the rulers are given the opportunity to answer those questions. If we interrupt again after every paragraph, that will be a problem. How do we deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u35	We just talked about the Work and Security Act. That is not the least law and not the least subject of the debate. The Minister is now moving on to the payment of wages. That's fine, but I think this is a natural moment. I imagine I'm not the only one either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u37	I understand very well. Those blocks were meant to indicate that I will deal with those other issues as well. For the rest, I understand very well that they want to interrupt about the Wwz. If you stay so strict, I can be relatively flexible, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u38	If you speak of a decent labour market and say that this includes a few subjects, then I want to know it, because then I can assess when and when it can be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yes. It's also about labour migration. I would also like to talk about inspection capacity; many questions were asked yesterday. I would also like to say something about labour market discrimination. Those are the subblocks to this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u40	That might make it a little more straightforward. Then you have your way, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u41	Hooray, Chairman. I have a question about the image of the Work and Security Act. The Minister mentioned a number of points and said that this still needs to be done. Still, it's getting tight. During the debate on the WWZ, it was the crisis that led to more flex jobs than permanent jobs. It is precisely the attracting economy that is the reason for more flex jobs. What's the deal now? The core remains that compared to the second quarter of 2015, the last quarter before the law, 15,000 additional permanent jobs and 72,000 additional flex jobs were added in the second quarter 2016. Yesterday I used figures showing that even six times as many flex lanes have been added. Well, that doesn't mean we're gonna be able to make that change, does it? That is what we have to see together, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u42	I think the answer is twofold. I fully agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that more is needed and that, in the future too, in a new period, additional policies are needed, even outside the scope of the WWW for this reason, I have just given this example in order to ensure that it becomes more normal to give people a permanent employment. At the same time, I would point out that I believe we have already had the first evaluation debate on the Work and Security Act the day after its introduction. We must realise that it is very strange to think that, when a chain clause runs for two to three years and sometimes even four years under collective agreements, we can already see all the effects. I do not want to jump to conclusions on the other hand, but I have sometimes raised my eyebrows when people jump to far-reaching conclusions. We know, after all, that the labour market is a mammoth tanker which has been leading to greater flexibility for a very long time. We now give a tug to the helm on one part. Then it is really too early and premature to pretend that it is counterproductive, as some here have suggested. I am not satisfied yet, because I see that many employers continue to use flexible contracts. I think this has something to do with the risk perception, as Mr Van 't Wout described yesterday. I recognize that, also from the conversations I've had with entrepreneurs. It also has to do with costs and with the differences between sectors. The catering industry is different from the metal sector. We also see that. I am trying to put another image next to it, because otherwise the unsuspecting listener might have gotten too one-sided a picture yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u43	Today's situation remains normal: six times more flex contracts than permanent jobs. Quite specifically, the Minister says that the redundancy payments have fallen on average. I think this is correct. In the same report, I note that I do not hear the Minister say that the number of rejections of applications for dissolution at the Amsterdam Court has quadrupled to more than 40%. In practice, this means that many SME entrepreneurs will have become even more hesitant for permanent jobs. Does the Minister share my concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u44	Firstly, a comment on the picture outlined. The picture is also that for the first time since 2009 the number of fixed contracts has risen again. I trust that Mr Van Weyenberg will be pleased to see this with me. Secondly, less is being done. People don't go to court as much as they do. The judge is in a different role. This means that the judge, if he has to test, will be critical. That's not something I'm falling over. A judge is not a stamp machine. You can see that much more is being established and is being suitable for each other. This may be in the interests of employers and employees. A lawsuit is also stressful and involves legal costs. That is a huge cost for business. The fact that more applications for dismissal are rejected means that you cannot simply conclude that this is bad. It also means going to court with difficult cases, because in other cases we no longer have the canton judge's formula with a cauliflower of variants, but can simply solve the transition fee with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u45	The evaluation of the Work and Security Act started about from day one. In the meantime, some changes have been made, partly because the Minister also saw things go wrong and partly because the Chamber sat tight on them. My question is about education. Earlier we talked about seasonal work. Fortunately, solutions were found after a scout was appointed. Even then, we had a discussion about the space a scout has to find solutions along the edges of the law. What's the status of that scout in education? What room does it have to really come up with solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u46	It is good that Mr Heerma says so. We must always be concerned with the purpose of the law. You must be prepared to adapt things in the meantime in consultation with employers, employees and the Chamber if that serves the purpose of the law. This applies to seasonal work and also to the retroactive effect of the transition fee for small businesses, especially at the beginning of the year, a major stress point for education as well. As far as education is concerned, the most important thing is that we want more security for teachers there too. At the moment, we are seeing problems in replacing a number of schools in particular. There are three explanations for this. An explanation is the lack of teachers. You can write a book about that, but that plays a role in this. The second explanation is that schools sometimes fail to cooperate. Mrs Schouten is not here right now, but I would like to take the opportunity to apologize if I have grieved someone with the way I described that phenomenon. It does exist; I think we should acknowledge that, but I have no intention of kicking anyone's ass against the chest or the skirt. The third explanation is that sometimes schools do not seem to be able to cope with the Work and Security Act. You can also have several explanations for that, but as far as I am concerned, that scout has been sent on his way to find a solution. This will always have to be done with employers and with employees. Mr Heerma knows that I have a little brother dead trying to gain a negotiating advantage either on one side or on the other through the Chamber. If employers and employees or explorers come to the conclusion that there is a need to change the rules on this issue too, and if that serves our wider purpose, I will not stand in the way of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u47	In any case, I find it chic what the Minister said about the words he chose. After all, I do think that there were people who were offended by that. I am also pleased with the space he gives in his answer. In my view, Mrs Schouten's final question was: if the scout finds that there are possibilities, but if the parties do not agree, will that be reported to the Chamber, so that we can talk about it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u48	Sure. I will also try to help with that. I think there is a common interest in children who are in school and teachers who have a good contract. Those are the two goals we both want to serve. There was also much talk yesterday about freedom of movement within the European Union. That brings a lot of beauty to the Netherlands and brings Mrs Karabulut to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u49	I have one more question about the last block. The Minister has promised and has recently acknowledged that there are major problems with the Flex Act. The young people in the public gallery say away with flex for a reason. Hundreds of thousands of permanent jobs have disappeared and hundreds of thousands of flexible, uncertain and low-paid jobs have been created instead. What must be done to get the Minister to intervene and what will he do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u50	I think that young people certainly experience that it is very difficult to get a fixed contract, when they need it just as much. I myself have never believed in the fairy tale that young people no longer want it and that it is not of this time, because it is ultimately about appreciation, certainty and with it the ability to plan and shape your life. There is a lot of discussion about how to achieve that best. I think that the Work and Security Act is very important, because it limits an unlimited amount of flex contracts. However, that is not the only thing that needs to be done. I think we have to face the fact that there are sometimes too attractive and cheaper alternatives. I think we have to face the fact that employers sometimes still experience too much risk in hiring staff. I mentioned all these elements. I think they're showing us that our work isn't done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u51	The Minister admits that young people simply cannot build a decent life. He recognizes that, too. They have to undress and yet they cannot start for themselves, start a family and you name it. The Minister admits that flex is simply too cheap, whereas it should be a luxury product. The Minister also acknowledges that it is still attractive for employers to go for the cheapest. My question is, therefore, when will the Minister intervene and come up with concrete measures to fix this? After all, we can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u52	We have seen the phenomenon of young people undressing before in this Chamber. That had a lot to do with the reward, too. I think we are having a debate in this house next week on how to improve young people's pay. So that is at least a concrete measure that we can discuss next week. On the larger issue, the balance between fixed and flex, this cabinet has taken significant steps, with the strong support of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, with the support of almost all parties. Mrs Karabulut may think that we should go further. However, I saw many other parties moving towards less security and less protection. The political views differ in such a way that you cannot now make a choice which steers policy in one direction or the other. I think Mrs Karabulut knows that very well. Freedom of movement has brought all kinds of good for the Dutch economy, but there is also a shadowy side. It leads to competition on working conditions. This is ultimately negative for the people of Europe and for the economy. That shadow side, I think, has also played a role in the outcome of the British referendum. I would like to reassure Mr Kerstens. It is precisely the fact that the British people have expressed their views on this issue that shows that we should not simply move on to the order of the day, but that we should now look at how Europe works and why so many people no longer feel at home and turn away from it. We are currently negotiating in Brussels the Commission's proposal on the adaptation of the Detachment Directive. This proposal does not solve all the shadows of free movement. It is not a panacea, but it is a significant step forward if you look where we come from. Three years ago, the Netherlands received a scorn from Brussels when it raised this issue. Now you see that an increasing number of Member States agree with us. There is now a concrete improvement proposal on the table. I am very proud of that, as I am proud of the fact that our Prime Minister is fighting for it just as hard as I am. This must of course also often be discussed at the level of the Heads of Government at the European negotiating tables. We are working together on this issue. However, more is needed. There are more imbalances in European regulation. It must not only be about economic added value, but also about social added value. I cannot and will not defend Europe as a kind of free trade hall without social protection. It is precisely this other added value that should be the starting point for the future of Europe, as should the future of the Netherlands. You cannot do that simply by calling aside, but this must also be done in Brussels. Over the next two years there will be negotiations on the UK's exit. Mr Monasch had asked a question about this. I should like to apologize to him for referring to him as a member of the PvdA Group in the written answers. Old habit that hard. For this retirement, the rules need to be adapted, but not the European Treaty itself. The Netherlands must also dare to use the period of the next two years for this purpose. We also do a lot in the national field. Mr. Kerstens asked for that. The Workers' Conditions of Employment Act is a very big step. The Enforcement Directive has been implemented. This is a better way to tackle abuse and evasion of the Detaching Directive. With a special programme, we have tackled malicious temporary employment agencies. In the social agreement, it was agreed to deal with bogus constructions. The Fake Constructions Act results from this with a chain liability for clients. That law has been unanimously accepted by both chambers and has been in force since 1 June. As of 1 January, chain liability in road transport will also apply. The capacity of the Inspection SZW has been increased to address bogus constructions. That's not the end of it. I will soon send the House a list of measures. At the same time, of course, the Chamber is right that it is not just about the rules of the game itself, but also about the enforcement of the rules of the game. Then you're talking about the capacity of the inspection. The Inspection SZW ensures the enforcement of labour laws. The social partners ensure that the collective agreement is maintained. Mr. Heerma challenged me to reflect on the ideas of John Rawls, who defines the just society as a society you would choose if you didn't know where you end up in that society. For me, it's always a tool for getting empathy. I agree, of course, with Mr Heerma that in reality there are always evil people who escape that method. In my view, that is not contrary to Rawls' philosophy. You can see in practice that people make decisions while they are aware of their social position. That is why it is important to take account of the possibility of taking measures, fines and sanctions into account. Therefore, the justice of that system and its enforcement remain important. Inspection monitoring is therefore an essential part of our system of legislation and regulations to combat labour market fraud. I have sent the Chamber my findings on the motion of Members of Parliament Heerma, Van Weyenberg, Kerstens, Schut-Welkenn and Ulenbelt on the way in which our inspection is conducted. In that context, Mrs Karabulut asked if I am prepared to increase inspection capacity. I support the findings of the report that Peter Veld has drawn up on broad lines. It's a good report. In fact, this shows that capacity is sufficient in itself, but that it is also sometimes under pressure and that it then pinches. I would therefore first like to clarify how we intend to shape the role of the inspection for the coming years. It is important to stress that compliance with laws and regulations remains primarily the responsibility of citizens and businesses, but that trust in them is not always justified and that therefore supervision and enforcement are crucial. This allows you to tackle evil people hard and protect vulnerable groups. That is why I would also like to examine whether the temporary additional capacity resulting from the social agreement cannot be made structural. Mr. Kerstens asked for that. I'd like to take a look at that in the spring note. For this reason, I would like to recommend the amendment to No 2 to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 30 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Amendment No 30 by Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the In accordance with the opinion in the report, I think it would be wise to consider how we can further shape the role of the inspection for the coming years. Work must be accessible to everyone, whether your name is Jan or Mohammed, whether you are man or woman, whether you are healthy or not, whether you are 18 or 58. Yet this is not the case everywhere. We know that. That is why we have taken various initiatives to combat discrimination in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u53	Before you move on to the next subject, I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u54	In 2013, more than three years ago, the Minister said: the dikes are breaking up, it is code orange, the unfair competition and exploitation of migrant workers in Europe must stop. He then went to work in Europe. He didn't get anything done, but in 2016 as a candidate-lister in the AD he says what he wants for the Netherlands: we are going to stop the labour migration that is there to reduce the costs; now a Romanian construction worker under the European rules costs a few hundred euro less than the Dutchman who stands next to him on the dock and does exactly the same work. When is this minister going to stop it? Is the Minister prepared to introduce the employment permit and put an end to the free movement of workers, which means freedom for both the Pole and the Dutch on that dock?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u55	This question is actually divided into two parts: what have I done about it and what do I want to do about it? What I did about it is this. Firstly, with the help of France in particular, the Enforcement Directive has been strengthened. Secondly, the fakes have been dealt with. That approach is very strict. Thirdly, the A1 declarations and the fraud involved have been dealt with. Fourthly, I refer to the improvement of the minimum wage and holiday allowance Act, which we are discussing next week. This law will also facilitate enforcement and combat fraud. Fifth, a large number of bilateral agreements have been reached with countries in Europe on cooperation against such phenomena. Sixthly, there is cooperation at Benelux level to promote equal pay for equal work. This is done through joint deployment of inspections and cross-border data exchange. Seventhly, I refer to the creation of the European Platform against undeclared work, a platform on which countries can work together. Finally, I would like to mention the approach to malicious temporary employment agencies. And most importantly, the European Commission has now finally put forward its own proposal to amend the Detachment Directive. Is that enough? No. That is why I pointed out the possibility of agreeing on a different rule in this matter. In the coming years, however, we must look again at access to the internal market and the rules governing the free movement of persons. The Netherlands can make maximum use of its position and cooperate with allies Austria, France, Belgium, Sweden and Germany. You can never do that by unilaterally imposing an employment permit. Mrs Karabulut knows that, too. You can do that by changing the rule of the game yourself, and to that end, on top of all the work we have done and the successes we have achieved, the next two have a unique opportunity. I'd like to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u56	The Minister is talking about the next two years, but he has had the chance for three years. He spent three years talking in Brussels, and he didn't get anything done for three years. He speaks alarmist language, and rightly so. The minister says there is repression, there is exploitation, there is poor housing. On Saint Nicholas' Day, he said on the radio that he's gonna put an end to that, but what's he saying now? That he's not going to take any concrete steps. So it was all smooth talk. If the Minister is serious and it is not just fine words that he wants equal pay for equal work, for the Pole and for the Dutch, then he is now going to prepare measures, introduce employment permits and simply do his job in Europe, namely protest and do not accept this situation of exploitation. That's what the minister should do if he's serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u57	It is preferable to listen to each other in a debate. I'm trying to listen to what Mrs Karabulut says. She first asked what has been achieved in recent years. I have listed this and that was only a limited list of the results we have achieved. I have also indicated how we could go much further with this. Mrs Karabulut could have chosen to be our ally in this, but she did not make that choice. She says, "Your work is protesting." I don't see it that way. It is our work, in a complicated environment in which the Netherlands is not alone, to make a change in this. I think it could be more radical than in the past because of the current conditions in Europe. I invite the Socialist Party to be an ally in this and to see the work not only as protests, but above all as working together to achieve something. We have achieved a great deal in recent years. This is widely recognized; ask the FNV. We can achieve much more, but then we must see each other as allies and not see our work as protests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u58	No, Mrs Karabulut, you will not have the floor again. Mrs. Voortman may now intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u59	That is why it is important that we know exactly what the Minister is saying as a list-leader outside the Chamber and what he is saying here. In, among others, the Algemeen Dagblad he has indicated that he wants to put an end to the free movement of people. What does that mean? I would like to hear that in concrete terms. We have said that the government should stop doing business with underpaid companies. In the written answer to our questions, the Minister indicated that this is being looked at under the new Procurement Act, but the government could of course also include in the specifications that there should be no underpayment, not with the companies with which it deals directly and not with the subcontractors. Does the Minister also see this as an opportunity to tackle this type of practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u60	Let me start with the first point. Indeed, we must stop labour migration, which is intended solely to enable competition on wages. That is not only my position in the discussions within my party, but that is also the position of the Dutch Government. Equal pay for equal work is the principle principle of the Dutch government. This means that, in Europe, the system must be brought to an end and cost benefits are achieved simply because of the rules of free movement. We can see that. Since 2004, since the enlargement of the European Union, we have seen that part of the block had significantly lower prosperity than the older Member States. This resulted in business models in which long postings and the use of A1 declarations lead to significant cost differences. This leads to labour market displacement, not on the labour market as a whole, but in certain sectors of the labour market. It is precisely in sectors that are vulnerable that this is perceived as unfair, and I agree with that. So that's gotta stop. That's right. Do you have to put an end to the free movement of persons? No, you had to go back to Europe's promise: the free movement of persons was not there to compete on wages, but to ensure that people could settle and respond to vacancies that could not be filled. That's what needs to be done. We must stop labour migration as a cheap business model for low wages, but we must not stop working together in Europe. I didn't suggest that either in the daily newspaper. I do think that the Netherlands must be radically dared to achieve more in the coming years. However, this does not alter the fact that we have taken major steps over the last two years. Once again, I am proud of the way in which I work with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u61	In my view, the Minister certainly gave the impression that he wanted to stop the free movement of persons, but I am glad that he is concerned with doing something about this unequal payment. I think that is the point where we can do something about it. I have also asked a second question about this, which I have not yet had an answer to. Can the Minister promise that the government will no longer do business with underpaid companies? This applies not only to deals made with companies, but also to subcontractors. I think the government can just put that in its specifications by default. You don't even have to deal with the Procurement Act. Can the cabinet say that it will be included in the CSFs from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u62	There are two elements in it. First of all, I would like to mention the government as the client. On the basis of the Wet approach fakes constructions, the government as the client is liable for underpayment. That's a much bigger change than when you put it in CSFs. We are liable, so also Rijkswaterstaat is liable, if further on in the chain is underpaid or one does not comply with the collective agreement. This is a very important change for which the Netherlands has unanimously chosen. Secondly, you have besides the phenomenon of underpayment other elements of the Labour Act. The Chamber has said: should we not consider whether this should be taken into account in procurement and procurement, as we do in the area of labour market discrimination? I have said that we must do this very carefully and carefully, because that will have to be done in a legally proportionate manner. But the initial analysis of the right to that point shows that it is not impossible. I'll come back to that in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u63	I would like to continue on the issue of labour migration. The Minister is constantly talking about a kind of competition model. It is a business model aimed at cheaper labour. He also linked it to a Brexit referendum earlier. I think it is true that the feelings surrounding labour migration played a major role in that referendum, but we have also seen that those feelings did not always correspond to all the facts in Britain. Does the Minister recognise with the VVD that we really do not just hire Poland because it is so cheap, I say it very simple, but also because there are very large industries that simply cannot find anyone else to do that job?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u64	I would like to acknowledge that, but you won't find out until people get a chance on equal terms. As long as it is indeed a favourable business model for companies and temporary employment agencies because of these lower costs, I find it all too easy to blame Dutch people for not wanting to do that work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u65	There are many examples, including experiments in which Dutch people were brought from the benefit to those greenhouses. It just didn't work, maybe because of a lack of motivation. I invite the Minister to visit us in the village sometime. There's a lot of companies like this out there. They all say: in the past, for example in the summer and at peak moments, students liked to work here, but they don't do that anymore, they don't want to do this anymore. So if you take those Poles away, my company will just fall over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u66	If that were the case, Poland would also come if the same salary were paid there, if there were no cost advantage. Then we have no problem at all. I agree with the VVD that "no sense" is not an argument. If you get benefits and you can work, that's not an argument. But it does not detract from the fundamental problem that, as long as it is cheaper to take migrant workers from Central and Eastern Europe, it is unjust to benevolent in the Netherlands. This is the case for construction workers, painters, plasterers, drivers and farmers. So yes, I believe that at the moment when a vacancy is not filled, you can of course use other workers. But make sure there is equal pay for equal work. It would adorn the VVD if it also acknowledged that fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u67	The Minister just mentioned a series of people suffering from unfair competition. He was talking about construction workers, plasterers and painters. Those are people for whom I used to do my best every day as chairman of the Bouwbond. I indicated that I advocated looking at the shadow side of free movement years ago. The Minister has rightly listed a whole list of things that we have now finally managed, but I would like to ask a specific question about labour migration as a business model, as a earning model. In my view, the Minister is right to say that if we continue to do so, we must go a step further. I wonder what that step is. Does the Minister also agree with me that it is not so much a question of whether these rules lead to a model of earning, but that it is, of course, at the heart of the matter whether there are major wage differences, which means that people are no longer in business, whether they are construction workers, plasterers or painters, because other people are underpaid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u68	I agree with Mr Kerstens, because of course it leads to pressure on wages, so that you do not have a normal balance in the labour market in terms of wage formation either. There is then an unlimited reservoir of people who want to do the job at lower wages than has been agreed. What should we focus on? I think we should focus first of all on the core of the problem. It is therefore a question of defining equal pay for equal work. This is good in the European Commission's proposal. Secondly, we must focus on the duration of the posting. The last word has not yet been said about this, because I believe that a two-year secondment is still a very long time. If it's a temporary job, then two years is still a long time. Thirdly, we need to focus on the A1 statements. We hope to come up with proposals on this in the near future. "A1 declaration" is a technical term for a statement allowing you to pay contributions in the country of origin. It is justified to reduce red tape, but abuse is also lurking. We also see examples of abuse. That too will have to be dealt with in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u69	I agree with what the Minister says about the Detachment Directive, but I find it complicated that the Minister's speech calls for an atmosphere where it is as if every Eastern European who works with us now is doing so because he is cheaper. I agree with Mr Van 't Wout on this point. I've also been to many agricultural and horticultural companies. They are paid on the basis of a collective agreement, and they really cannot find anyone but the Poles, with whom they are very pleased. The idea that gives them big headaches is that they want to come less. Shouldn't the Minister make more distinctions between excesses, for example, we have seen them in infrastructure and the many sectors in which decent pay is paid for work for which no one else can be found? Those are totally incomparable cases, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u70	Mr Van Weyenberg is absolutely right. The blame should not go to a Pole or to a Romanian. Those people want to live better for their families. They want to make a decent living. There is therefore no question of the accusation being made to them. The accusation does not go out to companies that pay properly in accordance with all the rules. However, the criticism is based on the infrastructure created to maximise the cost benefits of using migrant workers. Mr Van Weyenberg will agree with me that this is ultimately bad for Europe and the Netherlands. After all, it creates the wrong incentives and leads to development towards a low-wage block. It creates competition on labour costs. That's not what you want. Working conditions competition is not the future of the Netherlands. So you have to be against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u71	It is good that the Minister now acknowledges that in many sectors hiring is not the way to reduce wages. I think it would be wise to make that clear to all those entrepreneurs who do this out of good intentions. I still have one more question. The Minister's position is not quite clear to me, despite this little interruption debate. Does he say: if I fail to tackle the Detachment Directive, then do I want permits or borders closed? That's how I've understood the minister in the last few weeks. Once again, I support him in his approach to the Detaching Directive. But is the Minister's line: if the Detaching Directive is not amended quickly, am I closing the borders? Is it or is it not the government policy in the direction of this minister? I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u72	It is always a dangerous moment when Mr Van Weyenberg no longer understands it. We've had that before on this subject. The goal is to stop labour migration as a business model for low wages. To achieve this, the rules of the game itself must be adapted. You can never get there with more enforcement. The rules of the game therefore need to be adapted. The best way to achieve this is by adopting the Commission's amended proposal in December or March. If that is not possible, then I think that we should not leave it at that, but that we should include this as the main issue in the Brexit negotiations. Mr Van Weyenberg knows as well as I do that the Netherlands should agree to the new deal with the United Kingdom as one of the 27 countries. Then we do not have to close the borders, but we can use this as the most important asset. I believe that this is also beneficial for the people of the United Kingdom. Europe's rules of play really have to be different. That is the change from the past few years. Unfortunately, the Brexit created a new situation. We're gonna have to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u73	I think that the Minister has quite rightly chosen the commitment to get the Detaching Line adjusted. I think it is fine to use the momentum in the political field to increase the pressure, because it is really necessary for our labour market. The VVD has always said in this discussion that the Detachment Directive is not the problem, but that it is about maintaining it. With the support I have for the adaptation of the Detaching Directive, I would also like to talk about enforcement. I have the impression that the enforcement that is taking place with employers who pay under the collective agreement, who are already acting outside what is allowed under the current rules, can be improved and that they can be dealt with because of this collective agreement. My question to the Minister is whether he can confirm that there have also been several cases in recent years where employers have been paying well under the collective wage and thus competed bona fide companies away. And can he confirm that, by declaring collective agreements generally binding, these types of companies can be tackled, preventing exploitation and allowing bona fide companies to do their jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr Heerma is right on this point. On the contrary, we have stepped up cooperation with the social partners, because the collective bargaining police, as it is literally referred to, have found cases of non-compliance with the rules of the collective agreement. Not only because this could be done through European rules, but also to obtain an unfair competitive advantage over other companies. This is detrimental to the other companies, which cannot defend themselves against it, but also to the workers, who therefore have no chance of getting decent paid work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u75	Would the Minister undertake to give the Chamber an overview of the cases in which fines have been passed and enforced against such practices? That does not have to be done today or tomorrow, but it is important that the Chamber gets that information, because there are now also parties who say: we have to stop doing so. Then we must have an insight into what the consequences of this can be. I would therefore like to have an overview of these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u76	I need to see how quickly I could produce such an overview. Maybe I can respond to that in second term. I understand the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u77	I think there is virtually no one in the Chamber who says: the Minister should not ensure that there is equal pay for equal work. That is a starting point which he must certainly maintain, and it is good that he is now putting the emphasis on it. Following on from Mr Van Weyenberg's question, I do wonder what exactly the Minister is proposing. He's hovering past it a little bit. On the one hand, he mentions a whole list of concrete measures which he intends to take, but the question is: if this is not possible or if these opportunities are not used, will we in turn introduce the employment permit? That's where he sticks a little bit in procedural matters. What does the Minister want now? For the sake of clarity, does he say "these measures must all be applied and if not, I am going to re-introduce the employment permit"? Or does he say: well, we are all going to have a look at it in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u78	In that you have to deal with a political weighting. The Dutch Government has taken this as an important starting point, and it is doing so: both the Prime Minister and I do so. A new situation is emerging in the next two years. We will have to negotiate with the United Kingdom. That is not procedural, it is reality. My political view is that you should indeed block a solution if it does not bring an end to the business model of low wages. But that is not the government's view yet. A new government will have to find something. I would therefore like to stress that I cannot say this on behalf of the Dutch Government as a whole. We do not have to do that, because that position will have to be determined by a new government after March, when the Article 50 procedure begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u79	Now the Minister is going to get two things mixed up a little bit. He's still a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u80	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u81	He's not just the candidate for the PvdA list. He is now speaking on behalf of this cabinet. In fact, after March it may well be that this minister is there, because we do not usually have a new government within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u82	I'll help you hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u83	The latter is your own statement. I'm trying to make it clearer and clearer. So this minister is actually saying: the commitment must be that all measures come into force. If not, the boundaries will close. That's what this minister says. I want to focus on this, because a party in the vein of 'it's up to the next cabinet, but this is my political view', simply cannot be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u84	It's always hard when you answer a question that's actually about other things than this cabinet. Mrs Schouten asked about that. Then she said: you answer a question about other things than this cabinet. I won't do that anymore. The position of the Dutch government is next. We are doing our utmost to amend the Detachment Directive. In the coming period, the Dutch Government will have to establish its view on how to deal with the negotiations with the United Kingdom. It is too early for that now, because that will only begin with the call for Article 50, at the earliest in March next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u85	In itself, I understand part of the Minister's commitment very well, but where it stands, the following is true. At a time when there is a shortage, for example of employees, the result is that the price is rising, in this case the wage. Apparently, at that time, the employers do not offer sufficient pay to stimulate people here in the Netherlands to go to work. What then happens in a free market economy? Then the price goes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u86	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u87	If you disrupt that by constantly allowing that freedom of movement, then that wage will always remain low. What is the Minister doing about this phenomenon? I think that's the crux that makes a lot of people so angry: that way you deliberately keep wages low, by bringing people from another country here, while we have people ourselves, but then the price has to rise a little bit. That requires the free market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u88	That's exactly the phenomenon I'm exposing here. If you allow work under the agreed wages, using the European rules of the game or, I repeat, Mr Heerma, by violating our own rules of the game, that puts an improper downward pressure on wage developments. That's exactly what you see in some of those sectors. Exactly that pressure is also reflected in some of those collective agreements. That is why we must put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u89	You're ignoring the core. The point is that these collective wage agreements seem to be too low. It is well known that tens of thousands of Poles, Romanians or soon Moldovans can be brought here to keep those wages low. That is the essence of the problem. By getting so much offer here, you keep that price low. That's got to be broken. So you're gonna have to see how that's possible first. Maybe it should be with an employment permit. We are doing it with Chinese chefs; perhaps that should be called into question again in Europe. First of all, we need to see how we can get our own unemployed and those in the welfare sector back to work, instead of always keeping that price low. There's got to be an incentive to get people from here to work themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u90	If you succeed in preventing people from working below the price, then our own wage-setting mechanism, the collective agreement, can simply do its job. In my view, Mr Monasch and I do not disagree at all on the problem. As long as the European rules of the game can be used to work under Dutch wages, the price does not go up and you will sometimes not find employees who want to do it for that price. Look at the practice. It's paid for 40 hours, while 60 hours are worked. You can't do it as a Dutchman. You can't pay the rent. That is exactly what we are talking about here and what this cabinet is doing about. I think we agree on the analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u91	I suggest we move on. I say to Members of Parliament that the Minister has now spoken for 20 minutes and that he has been interrupted for over an hour. I think I'm sticking to my first proposal not to interrupt endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u92	I had arrived at the issue of labour market discrimination, which was the subject of a great deal of attention yesterday, and rightly so. It is good to remind you of the initiative taken by the Labour Foundation with the support of SZW, Diversity in operation. This supports companies, a more diverse and inclusive workforce. Mrs Karabulut asked what I intend to do with the results of the Rijksmonitor anonymously applying. There was also a debate between Marcouch and Azmani among others. How do you view this problem in principle? To be honest, I understand both sides. I also find it extremely uncomfortable and ultimately not the solution to ask people to hide their identity. We will have to go to a Netherlands where that is not necessary. At the same time, I fully understand the efforts of municipalities and others who do not want young people to wait too long, but rather try things out to see if this can lead to a breakthrough. The pilots we have seen so far have at least had the positive effect that the employees involved in recruitment and selection see the role of unconscious prejudices more clearly. It holds a mirror to the people responsible for recruitment and selection. In my view, this is pure profit, even if it does not affect the fundamental discussion of the substance itself. It also has disadvantages. A conscious focus policy is no longer possible in such a variant. Applicants are no longer able to obtain information about the position in advance. It must therefore be applied very carefully. I will bring the results of this monitor to the attention of the Minister of the Interior. We've been asked what the Empire is doing with that now. Then we really need to look at the Home Secretary as an employer. No, I have to say here, housing and the National Service, because it is about the government's personnel policy. The objective is also to increase the diversity of public personnel policy, without taking away the disadvantages it also has. We know that, despite the action plan and despite initiatives of this kind, discrimination in the labour market is still far from complete or, more importantly, occurs in many places. That is why, at the beginning of this year, we launched the National Action Programme against Discrimination, in which we are committed to combating all forms of discrimination in society, including in the labour market. One of the great initiatives I found was the specific campaign aimed at employers, in which employers themselves speak and they show that everyone has prejudices and that it pays to face them. In this context, initiatives to train recruiters and raise awareness of the importance of diversity and of the prejudices they have. An unpredictable future requires a well-functioning labour market with clear rules of play, in which the nature of the work is leading to the form of contract under which it is carried out. That labour market wasn't there yet, that was the conclusion yesterday. Institutional factors do indeed play a role, such as yesterday's debate on the issue of differences in the tax treatment of employees and self-employed persons. These are developments which do not remove a divisive gap, to quote Mrs Karabulut, but sometimes seem to strengthen. You see a group of workers with relatively high levels of protection, but also a growing group of flex workers who have to cope with the risks of companies. Sometimes they are people with very similar preferences and very similar work. I am not talking about the satisfied ICT professional or the very satisfied employee. It's about people who actually do the same work, with the same preferences and the same wishes, and yet get such a different treatment. The recent ruling of the Supreme Court clearly shows that payrolling is also a subject that deserves our attention in the coming years. I understand very well that yesterday in the Chamber it was discussed that it is necessary to do more about it and that there is disappointment that I cannot do so at the moment in this constellation. That's a fact that's there. In a cooperation like this one, I think both Mr Van 't Forest and Mr Kerstens were honest about it yesterday, you will have to accept that you will never be satisfied with all your wishes. It also shows that there is still work to be done. More work and better work remain important challenges for the near future. We must continue to improve employment opportunities and ensure that the 502,000 people who do not yet have a job and wish to do so can also take their chances. Let's look at the support of job seekers. Although the last quarter showed the fastest growth in the euro area and the unemployment rates are back at the top of the class in Europe, we can also see that there are still many people who do not feel that recovery. I already mentioned the 502,000 people. The number of jobs has increased to 10 million. That means there's a greater chance of a job. The proportion of job vacancies compared with the number of jobseekers has improved considerably. This means that we also need to further improve support for job seekers, including with the measures from Start-up to new work. We see that job seekers make a lot of use of the opportunity to train with a voucher towards a profession of opportunity. Yesterday I took note with approval of the Court's statements on this matter. Mr Krol asked a number of questions about the training vouchers. He rightly notes that the number of applications from long-term care is lagging behind. These are more than 400 applications, of which 290 have so far been dealt with and 160 have been awarded: 5% to persons under 30, 62% to persons between 30 and 50 and 32% to people over 50. I shared that with my colleagues from Health. I expect the number of applications to increase over the coming period, because the project Strong in your work, care for yourself will start. This can be a very important tool for people who want to retrain and retrain. The aim of this project is to make and maintain workers in home care and welfare work suitable and viable for the labour market. It offers about 5,000 jobseekers aged 45 and over personal career orientation and runs until mid-2018. The provision of more personal services, face to face, from person to person, is also an important focus. As of 2017, therefore, the budget for the WW service will be increased structurally. There is 160 million for personal services to WW beneficiaries. I think we can be very happy about that. We know the examples of nasty treatment. I am very pleased that there is also a great deal of appreciation from the Chamber for the UWV employees. It is also a question of creating the opportunities that we can do in this budget to make more personal services possible, which will speed up people's work. Specifically for the 50+ group, I have presented a common approach with social partners with the Action Plan Perspective for 50+. It came from the Mulder motion once. This will give more support to job seekers over 50 in the WW and also remove obstacles to access to the job application table by bringing employers and employees directly into contact with each other. At the same time, with the figurehead, John de Wolf, we want employers to be less reluctant when hiring 50-plussers and to make them aware of prejudices about people over 50 years of age. In addition, the social partners and the Cabinet are committed to making workers more adaptable on the labour market through a second career advice and retraining. This is also in response to Mr Marcouch's question on the low-skilled elderly unemployed. It is precisely this group of workers that benefits enormously from the fact that not only after dismissal, from a sometimes very disadvantaged position, but rather from the development opportunities and supplies. We all know that it's much better if you can change your job or move from work to work than you have to face the blow of resignation. The interdepartmental programme Tel along with Language focuses specifically on preventing and combating low literacy. This is also the way to help low-skilled older people learn their language. Within that programme, a project will be launched specifically for older people to support them in working with digital and social media, thereby increasing the network of participants and strengthening self-reliance. That's very important. Applying for a modern job, we all know, goes a lot more along that road. You can help people, right when they're not in that vulnerable position of dismissal. Smooth transitions on the labour market are crucial, especially because we know that the economy and therefore the labour market are changing more and more rapidly. Job seekers benefit if they are able to move to another job as soon as possible. In order to benefit from rapid technological developments, people need to be equipped for this change. This requires them to be able to work on their employability and on their training, including throughout their careers. In particular, we must support people with a relatively high risk of long-term unemployment. Sustainable employability is much more than health, however important it is. It is also about good support, about preventing people from losing a job and, if so, about social partners taking responsibility for doing something about it. When Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Voortman interrupted, I said a few words about purchasing power and income policy. Two weeks ago, I sent the Chamber a more detailed review of purchasing power developments. An average household has improved. We have, of course, had to make substantial cuts in order to put public finances in order. That succeeded, but 2013 in particular was an extremely difficult year for a lot of people. However, you can see that almost 80% of households are making progress, while at the beginning of the cabinet period it was expected that this would be less than half. So I agree with the coalition partner, who I have seen sometimes grumpy statements about 'the most levelling cabinet since Joop den Uyl'. I don't know if that's true. I think that at least it is clear that the cabinet has dealt with the agreements in the government agreement with a view to ensuring a balanced income policy. It has been a choice that workers have seen their purchasing power improve most. It is precisely because work must pay that we have made the choice to significantly improve purchasing power, especially for those on lower incomes. This means that people who went to work from a benefit have made a huge leap. That doesn't have to lead to more inequality. Many of the older people I speak to also appreciate and understand that their children and grandchildren who work so hard in the rush hour of life are also paid for work and have been able to see their income grow over the past period. For workers in the lowest income group, income policies by 5.5% have contributed most to the overall purchasing power improvement. As a result, for people with benefits, it is now much more important to get to work. At the same time, we have ensured that minimum benefit recipients, low-income elderly people, have not fallen through the ice. From the beginning, we said it was necessary, and why. Especially last year, 2016, turned out much better than originally expected and also than we had expected. In average terms, purchasing power increased by about 3%. Almost all households improved. 2017 will, it seems, be the fourth consecutive year with a positive purchasing power development. By far most people will have to spend more next year. This means that, fortunately, the picture of increasing income inequality is not correct. It is very important that the Netherlands has and continues to have a relatively balanced distribution of income. When we talk about inequality, it is particularly important that we avoid inequality as an obstacle to progress, social mobility or development. In this respect, we are doing well internationally. However, it requires a continuous effort to maintain, maintain and improve the system that provides those opportunities and safety nets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u93	Before you proceed, I shall first give the floor to Mr Marcouch, who I have just dismissed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u94	I'm just gonna take a minute. I would like to return to the issue of discrimination in the labour market. Despite the different views on the principle, the Minister is extremely positive about applying anonymously. We've had little pilots now. The first signs of this were very positive. That is why I asked the Minister to start a larger pilot at the government, precisely because it helps people recruiting staff to raise awareness. It also helps young people to get a job within the government. Can the Minister promise that he will make an effort to organize such a large pilot? I am considering tabling a motion, but if he promises me that his effort is more than just bringing it to the attention of the public, then perhaps I can refrain from doing so. It seems important to me that a Minister for Integration, who is responsible for combating discrimination, should step up his efforts to break that also in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yes, the government must also show that there is diversity policy, that it reflects society and that prejudice is being combated here too. I have mentioned and appointed a number of advantages of applying anonymously, but also a number of disadvantages and concerns about them. So yes, I will ask if my colleague for Housing and National Service, taking into account all these things, is willing to do such an experiment. I can't promise that. It's his wallet. He's the employer of all government officials. If Mr Marcouch were to table a motion on this matter, I would have to advise him to hold it for a while. My colleague will then be able to assess whether all this, taking into account the pros and cons and the objections in principle, is an instrument he would like to add to make public staff more diverse. That this is necessary, that this is an objective; we are very much in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u96	I am not asking the Minister to promise something that he is not about, although this minister always says: I am always about everything. I'll take him out on his combatibility and efforts. I don't hear that sharp enough in his reaction. I would like to have a more precise reaction to that. Another group is the 50-plussers. There's a program for 50-plussers. That group's been at home way too long. It needs a completely different approach from the one we have now for people who have just become unemployed and who should indeed be accompanied from work to work. Would the Minister respond to my comments on that group, which is too isolated at home for too long, which lacks all kinds of competences, such as language and other skills? How does the Minister intend to invest in these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u97	As far as the first question is concerned, I will certainly urge Blok to show that, using all the instruments available, he is going to do everything he can to combat prejudice within the government. I'll let the Chamber know what that gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u98	And "Blok" is the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u99	Sorry. Yes, that's what I meant: the colleague for Housing and National Service. I come to the second question. With regard to the group of people who have been at home for a long time, you can distinguish between people who are in the WW and those who are in the welfare service. There must be room for everyone on the labour market. I think the cabinet should stand for that. But we also know that the way back is often longer for people who have been on welfare for a long time. This point requires cooperation with the municipalities. We need to give municipalities the space to give that group what it needs. I think that's what matters. A program such as Tel along with Taal should not only be carried out by the government, but together with the municipalities. If there is a lack of language literacy in the way that part of this group is affected, this is an enormous handicap. Shame plays a role in this and we will have to go through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u100	It is very sad that an increasingly large group of people like Eric are emerging in the Netherlands. He worked for a long time, became unemployed at the age of 59 and saw his income fall from €2,100 to €1,400 in the WW and to €900 in the assistance a few years later. He has to go to the food bank for his food and he has to sell his clothes, yes, he has to sell his clothes to get around at all. This guy's not a social worker. This man has worked hard and paid contributions. He deserves a social security he can live by. Does the Minister agree with us that it is precisely the people with the lowest incomes and the statutory minimum wage that we should give 10% of the wages to all those hard workers who remain poor? Just $100. Does he agree that the money should finally go to the people who need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u101	I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut when she describes Eric's situation. Of course you'd give him something else. Over the last few years, I have met a lot of people who have felt the impact of the economic crisis and who have sometimes lost their jobs and income from one day to the next. This also applies to people who have become self-employed at the wrong time and who did not end up in the WW at all, but fell into the assistance at once. I think we share the goal and motivation to make sure that all those people stay at work. This has partly been one of the objectives of the sectoral plans, and I am proud of that. Many people have remained at work with the help of these sector plans, precisely to prevent them from getting into that situation. Is the best solution to raise the minimum wage? I have also mentioned my concern on this point in the written set of questions. It is precisely this employment that is now under very great pressure. We come up with the low-income advantage to stimulate employers to keep people in employment for a reason. If you raise the minimum wage by 10% in one go, that would cost a lot of people their jobs. I am absolutely sure that is not what Mrs Karabulut and I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u102	I'm starting to get a little tired of the standard talk, the educated talk, of this ruler. Why do I say that? Eric's not alone. There are now hundreds of thousands of families in the Netherlands who are trying their hardest, but find a government against them that punishes them, while they have only seen their income fall. Then what good are those CPB numbers? Then what good are those reports? Why doesn't this minister and his secretary of state stand up for the low-income people who are just doing their stinking best?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u103	I don't fight people trying their stinking best. I took that seriously. I think it's kind of nasty myself to say that these are rehearsals. I could make the same comment on the way Mrs Karabulut responds to my answers. I'm seriously trying to answer by telling people what we're doing for them, but also by telling them that you're making people happy with a dead sparrow when you say you're doing 10% on top of their pay, because that means in practice that a lot of people will lose their jobs. That's not a CPB fable. I think that's an honest answer to the two of us. If I do not say what Mrs Karabulut wants, then it is very unfortunate to say that it has been rehearsed. I won't do that to her. I will continue to seriously address her questions, because we share the same objective, namely to stand up for the vulnerable people in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u104	I understand that the Minister wants to move on to the "integration" block and that we are completing the socio-economic block. I had a bit of a doubt in which block I would ask the next question, but I've decided to do that now instead of all at the end. The Minister has just defended what he has achieved in the field of the labour market. There has also been a great deal of criticism from the Chamber; the Minister has acknowledged that. I asked him whether the taboos in the coalition did not play too dominant a role in addressing the problems of the labour market. I also asked him about his ambitions for the coming years. What matters, which have not yet been achieved in the last four years, should be addressed in the labour market in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u105	Minister, will you come back to that? Or can you do that now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u106	No, I'd better do that now. I think you're doing the coalition partners wrong by saying there were a lot of taboos. If you see what has changed, which has hurt on both sides, it's about changes that have sometimes been postponed for decades, and I'm resisting such an image. But of course it is true that at some point you can see that you do not see that at all far-reaching changes. We have to acknowledge that, too. You can see that around the issue ofzzp and payrolling. I would find it strange to put the coalition partners, who have achieved so much with other parties in the polder in a complex constellation, on the spot that they have so many taboos that too little has happened. A lot has happened, but everyone also sees that it's not finished. All electoral programmes also state that parties still want to make changes. However, the differences are very large. There are parties who are looking for less protection, from the hope and expectation that this will lead to more jobs. There are also parties who are seeking the same level of protection, but are trying to build in an incentive to employ more people. You cannot expect all these differences to be bridged now, at this stage of the cabinet. What's to be done? Firstly, it is quite clear that the cost differences between workers and flexible work must be seen. Self-employment must also be shaped, not as the independence of the ICT professional, but as the independence that is sometimes used in the economic movement for work that could also be done by workers. The second point is risk-sharing. I think that risks, which are better taken collectively, sometimes end up too much with employers. Sometimes they also end up too much with the employee while they might be better with the employer. This risk-sharing obviously plays a role in employers' choices. Are you hiring someone or not? I think we've faced that about pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness. There is a very big task there. Thirdly, we will have to change the labour market as a whole. This is less easy to grasp in a reform or a law. We will have to do that so that those transitions, those transitions to other jobs and those changes in work are made easier and faster. Because the changes in the economy are moving faster rather than slower. We have taken steps in this direction, but we all know that continuing training, especially for people with not high levels of education and training, is not self-evident. Much more needs to be done to prevent a large group of workers from becoming vulnerable because of these changes in the labour market. I think that is the task and you can see that very different recipes are being served politically that match that diagnosis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u107	It is a good thing that the Minister indicates which topics should be addressed in the coming years. I will return to the first part of his answer. I understand that the Minister is protecting the coalition partners, but the pay record was already there in 2012. The file payrolling was even there in the previous period. Zzp has been on the coalition sign for years. Doesn't the Minister have the feeling that some of these files have been unduly delayed, which puts them on the plate of a next coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u108	In view of the issues of dismissal, WW, chain determination, the approach to bogus structures and youth wages, and the way we deal with the labour market, I sincerely believe that so much more has been achieved than in all the years before. It would be unfair to put the light on the things that didn't work out. At the same time, I agree with Mr Heerma that there are still issues that also call for a solution. In the spring package of April we have been able to do a number of things about the payment of wages in case of illness. However, no one has to disagree that more is needed in the coming period to solve those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u109	The Minister now pretends that he has taken steps forward but has not achieved everything. The point is, of course, that he has also made choices that have made the division bigger. I was just talking about the difference between workers and non-workers. Also look at flex and fast. The Work and Security Act has only made people with uncertain contracts more insecure. The arrangement that, after a temporary contract, you supposedly have to get a fixed contract earlier, leads to people getting on the streets sooner. We have therefore said: make sure that people can receive this transition fee from day one and that there will be an opportunity for that second, longer temporary contract. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he still wants to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u110	On the first point: yes, workers have improved more, also because we want work to pay off. Previously, when you went to work from a benefit situation, in some cases you deteriorated. You shouldn't want that. You can solve that in two ways: by lowering the benefit we have not done so either by increasing the income of people who work at low income. We did, and that's a conscious choice. You can't say this is inequality. No, we'd like people to find and benefit from benefits. I think that is better for people and also for the Netherlands. On the second point: sure, you can look at a second contract of temporary nature. However, in the variants we have looked at, this was an interim noticeable contract. This is extremely unfavourable for workers, because it only creates more uncertainty. An interim non-repealable contract will not offer an employer. Not only do I think that, but I have discussed this with employers and employees on several occasions at the request of GroenLinks and the CDA. They indicate: this is not the solution to our problem. On the third point: yes, transition fee from day one. There are parties to that, and I can imagine that. It could be an extra incentive. I don't think that's gonna solve the whole problem, but it can certainly help. However, that does not fit in with the agreements I have made with employers and employees. I'll keep them to their appointments, do what you promised. Then I cannot say unilaterally: we are going to impose the burden of the transition fee from day one. That wouldn't be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u111	I am glad that the Minister is now admitting that the division between the workers and the non-employed has increased and that people in a benefit situation have not improved on that which was a conscious choice of this cabinet and I am glad that the Minister admits this now. As far as the Work and Security Act is concerned, people are now in a temporary contract, they are not getting a fixed contract faster because of this law. In fact, they're getting out of this law faster. Then we say: it is better to have a longer temporary contract than no contract. The minister says it's better to have a fictitious fixed contract than a temporary contract. That's exactly the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u112	On the first point: people with benefits have improved on this in the earlier block on purchasing power, I have also shown that this is 2%. However, it has been a conscious choice that people who work and have low incomes have made more progress. So if you don't want that, you don't want it to pay to work from a benefit situation. The only social way to do that is to make sure that people who work are making more progress instead of reducing benefits. That's what we chose. Yeah, that's a conscious choice. It's not like people with benefits have gotten worse. They have also improved, but less. Mrs Voortman says she knows that people do not get that permanent contract, but I note that there are more permanent contracts, for the first time since 2009, and that it is different. Just like it used to be, when you could give a temporary contract four times or for three years or five years. Some of the people get at the end, when employers are forced to choose, a fixed contract and some are not. The challenge now is to improve that ratio, but a second temporary contract is not a panacea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u113	I have a question for the Minister in his role as Deputy Prime Minister. Many parties want to change a bit in the Work and Security Act, we have seen. They're a lot less positive than the minister. The Minister rightly says: you have to compromise, that is at the heart of politics, especially with several parties. Isn't it very unwise to stress in interviews recently on Nu.nl, that the differences with regard to the VVD, for example, and to a lesser extent my party, are unbridgeable and to say: it's not negotiable? Is it useful in the current political situation to come up with the breaking points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u114	Short response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u115	I am always very interested in what Mr Van Weyenberg thinks and does not make sense, but I think we are now having a debate on the budget for next year. Yeah, politics isn't neutral. It's not like "sit down, Macrameans." I think it's a value for workers to be protected. I think it's a value that you can't be fired randomly. I note that in recent years it has been possible to make agreements in complex constellations and to make changes and improvements. I am sure that will be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u116	Yeah, you can find a good balance in that. My group has proposals for this. The Minister has ideas about that. But my question was: is it not unwise, on the basis of the experience that the Minister has had in recent years as Deputy Prime Minister, also in the negotiations with, for example, my party, to come up with some breakpoints now, in this political climate and a few months before the elections? That's not the way to keep the country ruleable together, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u117	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u118	I have indicated the values that are important to me. D66 considers other values important. I think protection is basic, especially in an uncertain time of change. D66 has different views on this. I respect that. These are political differences of opinion. I think it is also important that we show these differences, so that voters also know that it matters very much whether D66 or another party is going to be big. This is as much a part of our democracy as it is a part of compromise. My experience is that you can compromise better if you know what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u119	The Minister just indicated: I have fulfilled some of my ambitions, but we are not quite there yet. Will he indicate what he will probably want to do in the new year for a large part of that year with his minister, for example, with the problem ofzzp or with payment of wages in the event of illness? What does he think should happen on these two concrete points?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u120	First of all, as far as sickness pay is concerned, I hope that this calendar year will have an impact on the agreements we have made on the second track, on reducing the administrative burden on companies and on removing the risks that companies sometimes experience when they are reintegrated. I also work out the agreements reached in spring on access to the IVA, which is sometimes postponed for too long for some of the workers. I'll talk to the social partners about that. I hope to be able to offer it to the Chamber this calendar year and then work it out and move it forward. That is very important because we know that this is now an obstacle for many employers. Secondly, the bill on the transition fee after two years of illness is already in place. Thirdly, in the ibo, the interdepartmental policy research, we have established that more is needed for the self-employed. On this point, however, I have noticed that the differences between the political parties are so great that there will have to be a new government agreement before we can make any major changes. That is a political observation that we cannot ignore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u121	If the Minister states that he is not yet here and that more needs to be done, then the Chamber is entitled to know what he thinks should happen? Apparently, the minister has some kind of picture in his head that we're not there yet. It'll be a tour the force to get majorities here. Perhaps it is something that comes with a new coalition agreement, because this cabinet has done virtually nothing with ibo zzp, for example, except come up with a law that ensures that a number ofzzp'ers no longer have assignments, but that aside. If the Minister says that he is not yet here and that steps still need to be taken, then I would like to hear from him what he is referring to. Then I do not want to hear that it has to be settled in a new coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u122	I have just mentioned this in response to Mr Heerma's question. There are differences in costs, which prevent employers from simply hiring people they would like to hire or hire self-employed people they would like to hire as self-employed. In my opinion, you're gonna have to deal with these cost differences. You can do that in different ways. More right-wing parties will say: the cost of the fixed contract should be significantly reduced. More left-wing parties will say: you have to pay a fair price for that flexibility. I note that there is no compromise in the Chamber at the moment. I also note that the social partners are now discussing this and have indicated that they will come forward with their opinion in the spring. I read a indeed touching praise to the social partners from Mrs Schouten and her colleague Heerma. I think we can agree on that. It is important that not only political parties but also social partners find each other on this issue, because that affects the way institutions in the labour market are interlinked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u124	The open and free society in which we live is a great achievement of our democratic rule of law. We should be proud of that. The Dutch core values stem from the fact that we live in an open and free society. It is important that we realize that this is not self-evident, that this defence needs to be defended and that it is increasingly under pressure in a respectful manner because society is hardening itself and the space for asking questions is shrinking. Differences between people are increasingly the subject of discussion and debate, while keeping quiet about the many agreements we have. More and more people feel put away and no longer recognize themselves in society. The changes, which will not be reduced in the coming years, will make them stronger. I mention technological developments and globalisation, but also the many persistent and new hotspots in the world. These changes require a lot of society and the government. We have a duty to work hard with each other to preserve our achievements. It is good to see that so many Dutch people take initiatives to do so, to deal together with change and to make visible the quality and talent that are so rich in the Netherlands. The Cabinet appreciates that effort. As Minister, I am also pleased to see that the level of education of young people with a migrant background in the second generation is increasing more rapidly. Young people are hard at work to create opportunities for themselves for their future here. In 2013, I sent the Agenda Integration to the Chamber, which describes how we want to work towards a socially stable society. This is precisely what we want to do by putting core values at the centre and not being shy about it, by promoting participation, by providing equal opportunities, by focusing on knowledge development and sharing and by creating conditions. The defence of the rule of law, including freedoms, is therefore an important starting point for our policy. Mr Heerma asks me to give substance to the term "progressive patriotism," also in relation to the Van Dam motion. Progressive patriotism is about a proud Netherlands, based on the values and freedoms we share. This is a diverse society, in which everyone can participate without obligation. In the Van Dam motion, the cabinet is asked to work out how precisely the transfer of these shared values in strengthening the cohesion of society can come back. This cabinet represents an inclusive society of which everyone feels a full part. The foundations of Dutch democracy and of Dutch society are those values of our rule of law. These values are not negotiable and we are actively promoting them. That means, I say to Mr Azmani, that newcomers must adapt to these values and that the receiving society must offer room to accept newcomers as equals. The importance of accepting these values applies not only to newcomers but to everyone in the Netherlands. Where values are undermined or exceeded, action is taken. A society in which everyone participates fully and feels involved requires more than the enforcement of laws. Developing an open society can only take place through respect for differences and awareness of commonality. The actions arising from the Van Dam motion there Mr Heerma has the right to be sent to the Chamber shortly. They could have been here before and should have been. I see that Mr Heerma wants to ask a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u125	Yes, I see him, too, but I'd like you to finish this part first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u126	The cabinet shares the concerns of the Chamber about expressions of Salafism that violate the limits of the law or run counter to the values and norms of the democratic rule of law. Several Members of Parliament have pointed out the urgency of their approach. In the event of a breach of borders, we must maintain it. This is about the behaviour that is displayed. Foreign funding is problematic because of lack of transparency or if there is unwanted foreign influence with the money that increases the chance of behaviour that does not relate to the Dutch rule of law. We saw this in the Rotterdam case where a school building was purchased under false pretenses. I've informed the Chamber about that. That is why we have announced in the recent letter that we will come up with legal measures to increase transparency but also to prevent unwanted funding. The diplomatic commitment is also being increased to make better agreements with Gulf States in the case of requests for funding. For such good integration it is then important that newcomers participate as soon as possible. Newcomers who want to settle here must know as soon as possible the Dutch democratic principles and the way in which we deal with each other here. The newcomer participation declaration makes an important contribution to this. Mr Van Meenen asked what values were included in the declaration of participation. I brought one for him. The Declaration of Participation focuses on our main values of freedom, equality, solidarity and participation with regard to fundamental rights as we laid down in the Constitution, as Mrs Schouten rightly said yesterday. It is precisely in order to increase the opportunities for participation that we have in the Netherlands a system of integration in which results and own responsibility prevail. In the letter I sent last week at Mr Heerma's request, I indicated that these results are improving, but that we still have a way to go and that we are taking action to do so. I will provide the figures within a week........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the October letter, I indicated that, although success rates are rising, there are indeed bottlenecks that we must address now. The first is that municipalities can make better use of the additional opportunities to support citizens in their integration and further integration. Secondly, we must ensure that the supervision of the providers of integration routes improves. Thirdly, we must ensure that, within the process of integration and participation, the democratic experience and the introduction of Dutch society, see Mr Marcouch's motion for a resolution, have an important role to play. In this context, Mrs Schouten asks whether I am prepared to make the Leiden model of integration the national model. Municipalities certainly have different opportunities for asylum-seekers to support citizens in their integration and further integration. The way they do that falls within their autonomy. I think that the Leiden model for the implementation of the participation declaration process is an inspiring example. I agree with Mrs Schouten. So I bring it to the attention of everyone. But there are more inspiring effects that differ from one another in the various municipalities. Mr Azmani rightly states that we must learn lessons from previous migratory waves in our country. He's asking me to reflect on that. I share the need to control migration, especially as it has developed in recent years. The cabinet has therefore been actively committed to this during the past period. The agreements with Turkey and the support, including with money, of reception in the region have contributed to a better manageable migration of refugees to the European Union. In addition, in response to the increased influx in the past year, the cabinet has invested extra in faster integration and participation of newcomers. The administrative agreements that the Empire has concluded with the co-governments are a translation of them. I think it is important for us to control migratory flows and for the people who do come here to participate quickly. They must take note of the Dutch values and accept them. In addition, they must get to work as quickly as possible. Under the motto "stay involved" I have focused on a number of specific tasks, such as language lessons, rapid screening in the labour market, training competences, linking to municipalities where there is a chance to get to work quickly, the introduction of a compulsory declaration of participation and an increase in the role of municipalities in the supervision. In this way, too, we give substance to the opinion. No time was wasted on the Scientific Council for Government Policy from exactly a year ago. In this context, Mrs Voortman asks me to take more steps to counter the division of asylum seekers, such as the earlier provision of paid employment. She asks whether it might be an idea to place the integration entirely in public hands. Over the past year, we have invested heavily in the rapid participation and integration of refugees and status holders, precisely with the aim of allowing them to participate quickly and fully in the Netherlands. There has been investment in language learning, but I have also invested very clearly in more volunteering by asylum seekers. Why is that important? This is good for their development and they also give something back to the Dutch society they receive. There are opportunities to do partly paid work after six months. I am opposed to extending those possibilities. I think it is important that you reserve full access to the labour market to those who have been granted residence status. It is precisely in order to avoid the problems of displacement that I think this distinction is very important. But that is no reason why I agree with Mrs Voortman that people should sit still and keep waiting, waiting and waiting. This is bad for people themselves and also for their chances in the labour market. Moreover, it is bad for their return prospects if the weather is safe in the country where they come from. It's a basic human need to feel at home and heard somewhere. We see that lack of bonding can be a breeding ground of frustration and can cause aversion to society. We must note that the contrast and polarisation in the Netherlands are alive and well, whereas in the Netherlands it is necessary that we meet and deal with differences; differences of opinion, of opinion, of faith and of conviction, without judging people by their origins. That is precisely why it is important to respond clearly to incidents of intolerance, whether synagogues, mosques or anywhere else. Even then, the government must stand up to provide protection and make it clear that the border must not be crossed. Unfortunately, we have recently seen explicitly racist examples that Dutch society must oppose. In our country, the basic principles, such as great freedom, are at a high level. They're well-protected. However, we also see bad things happening, such as people resisting the basic principles or even attacking society. These exceptions are unacceptable and deserve a strict approach. Our core values are not negotiable. They are a prerequisite for everyone in our country to develop. This means that we must stand there if newcomers do not want to join or cross borders, but also if people are discriminated against or excluded. The achievements we stand for in the Netherlands require this. Newcomers need to integrate quickly and be able to develop, including through education. Well-educated young people also deserve to have a fair opportunity at work so that everyone can develop and build a future here. Security is needed for this, as is the confidence that everyone's rights are guaranteed; a crucial connection through the contradictions. I am convinced that the Netherlands can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u127	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u128	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u129	This was a pretty long block. I try to compress it, but can therefore only bring out two separate points. The first concerns the core values, which affect the Van Dam motion. I see Mr Van Meenen standing here as well. The debate between Mrs Schouten and Mr Van Meenen yesterday showed how necessary it is for us to carry out these core values a little more, because in the end those core values in the core are no different from what Augustine wrote 1,700 years ago and then what Plato talked about 2,500 years ago. We just kind of forgot about it with each other. In my view, that was also at the heart of the Van Dam motion. Well, I'm getting a little ibo-zzp feeling. It has also been said for two years: wait until the ibo zzp. But then nothing came. Why hasn't the Van Dam motion been worked out yet? The Minister has repeatedly indicated how important it is. I think this is the fourth postponement, but the cabinet period is almost over. Why doesn't that effect just lie there when it's so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u130	First, those values. We do. They're concrete. They're explicit. They demand defense every day. Just yesterday, an atheist Syrian asylum seeker told us about the pressure he experiences from Muslims in the shelter. We cannot accept that, because one of our values is freedom to have one's own faith and to believe or not to believe. So every day these values require our defense. The Van Dam motion sees how you can strengthen that, for example in education. The effect has taken a long time. This is partly due to the absence of the Minister for the Interior, who has this issue in his portfolio. This effect will come before the end of the year, one of these days, and will therefore not be postponed further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u131	The Minister states that this effect will come before the end of the year, and I am satisfied with that for now, but my patience is a little over. When it comes to anti-democratic parties, we were over it, but I really want it before the end of the year. Then there is my second point. We have been discussing for a long time whether there is an ultimate sanction for refusing, knowingly and knowingly, to burgeon. My point is that you will never de facto lose your residence permit if you refuse to burgeon. The cabinet has repeatedly stated that it always happens in principle, unless treaties or national rules stand in the way. The interesting thing is that this is no longer in today's written response. Does the cabinet now recognise that there is no de facto sanction? The answers we have now received, also in response to Mr Azmani's question, only talk about a fine and not about getting a permanent residence permit. Is it true that the ultimate sanction is never there de facto?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u132	No. Firstly, not granting a permanent residence permit has an effect on the residence permit. Mr Heerma knows that this has consequences for what you can and cannot do in the Netherlands. Secondly, it doesn't mean it never happens. However, the drafting of the current legislation encounters international conventions. We have also reported on this in several rounds, in response to written questions and in letters. I'm not saying anything new about that. We have talked about this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr Heerma, I see you with a piece in your hand. I'd like you to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u134	The written reply now merely states that it can lead to a fine and is not eligible for a permanent residence permit. Not knowingly and knowingly, there must be consequences. It no longer says that in principle it always leads to the loss of residence status, unless... Is it an omission that this has been omitted or is there a development in the research that indicates that it never happens in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u135	We both know that the Secretary of State for V and J has indicated that they want to look at concrete cases with this legislation, so that they can do more than they have done so far. We both know that the single spiritual servant may well lose his residence status if he refuses to enter. It is therefore not intended as a change, but as a nightly written answer to the question of the consequence of non-initiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u136	The Minister has kept a fantastic story about how it should all be, but I certainly do not recognize the reality in that, especially from the perspective of the newcomer. The Minister says that the newcomer must feel welcome, feel challenged, find facilities that help him to become a citizen. But the opposite is the case, isn't it? The whole responsibility for integration, which is now becoming a duty, has been completely transferred to the newcomer by this and the previous cabinet. Against the compulsory education, there are public facilities to ensure that you can meet them. Shouldn't this also be the case when it comes to integration? Then there is an obligation to integrate, but also a public offer to meet it in a good and accessible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u137	I think you need to separate the obligation to integrate from the question of how the supply comes about. Mr Van Meenen is right to ask for a greater role for asylum seekers in particular. That's what we're doing. The budget of municipalities to guide people to the right integration has been increased and also the role that municipalities have in it. On the other hand, we see that the current system is working for family migrants. It's okay to assume your own responsibility. People seek and find the offer they need to meet their civic obligations. This integration obligation is not new, it already existed. The art is to make sure that it works in such a way that one gets to the right integration course, that the municipality has enough hands in it, so that people get to work quickly with their integration in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u138	That's all the point, but none of that's gonna happen. I have made a detailed reference to this in my contribution. It is a wonderful story how it should be, but the Minister completely denies the present reality. You end up in a maze of cowboys with all kinds of offers. You need to borrow large amounts to meet your integration. That is not the reality that the Minister is trying to achieve, is it? What has he done in recent years, other than continuing Rutte I's right-wing rotten policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u139	Those amounts will be refunded to the applicant if he passes his integration exam. The Dutch society welcomes people, but also expects people to make an effort. It is precisely in the context of the large influx of refugees a year ago that we gave municipalities more financial space, but also more powers to help people to find the right supply. I believe that we have taken a very important step in this direction. I also see that municipalities have started to do so. We were just talking about the situation in Leiden. I don't want to rule out the fact that D66 also plays a role in this. There you can see that municipalities make use of the possibilities. This does not affect the newcomer's responsibility for integrating himself, for citizens themselves, for getting on with it, but the newcomers are indeed helped by municipalities to get the right offer. Are we done? Are we satisfied? No, of course not. It's not finished yet. We are not in a perfect reality. One of the things we want to improve is supervision. It must be independent tooth-to-tooth monitoring to ensure that those who are there are withdrawn from the market. But it is far too far for me to serve all the current providers of language courses and integration courses as Mr Van Meenen does here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u140	We have just heard a whole plea about the importance of core values and our way of life. Of course, that's very good, but what's the whole story worth seeing last week that the MiND, the Internet Discrimination Contact Point, which has been rigged by this ministry among other things, says seriously that calling for violence and even killing homosexuals can do well, as long as that happens in the name of a belief in life, in this case Islam?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u141	That is a completely unacceptable and incorrect explanation of their task. Completely wrong! The Dutch core values mean that you not only have the freedom to believe what you want, but also to keep the freedom of whom you want. Even if you love a man as a man, it is protected by the Dutch core values. So it was a big mistake. We have therefore agreed that Minister Van der Steur will discuss with them whether it was a one-off statement or whether it was also visible in the way the hotline has done its job. But no misunderstanding about this: completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u142	That's clear. That's a good thing! We have also heard apologies from your party colleague who is the director there, but the point is, of course, what happened to that particular person. I'm really wondering, because of course only an "sorry, oops, a mistake" can't. Did they fire them or disable them? What happened to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u143	That is why I just said that Minister Van der Steur is going to have a conversation with this hotline to find out how they have reacted and how they intend to avoid repetition. But he will also consider whether it was indeed a bizarre blunder or policy of the hotline. If so, reports may not have been followed up properly. Van der Steur starts the conversation with them and he will share with the Chamber what that has resulted in and what consequences that may have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u144	A lot has been said here about standards and values. The minister himself cited an example of an azc where there is no freedom of religion because a group of Muslims determines what the prevailing faith should be there. We all probably agree very quickly that there is one value and standard, namely Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr Van Meenen also referred to it yesterday. Can't we agree that people who come here and don't accept Article 1 won't get in? Then those people should stay somewhere else. Surely it can't be that you flee to a country and then use your opinion to terrorize others, restrict others' freedom or restrict women's freedom? It can't be, can it? Shouldn't we give the clear signal that someone who doesn't accept Article 1 is not entering the country? You can find out in a conversation or by letting people watch movies. That's my point: Article 1, and if not, you just stay somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u145	When people are here, they have to conform to Dutch values. That is not only Article 1, but also Article 6, freedom of religion, and Article 7, freedom of expression. These are fundamental rights that together form the core of our civilisation. That is why I announced in the agenda for integration in 2013 that there will be a declaration of participation. We ask people not only to comply with the law, but also to sign for those values of Dutch society. Therefore, in the legislative proposal submitted to the Chamber, it is a mandatory part of compulsory integration. I was just talking about the integration with Mr Heerma. Then I also said it must have consequences for the right of residence. At the moment, you can see that there are international legal objections, but the standard is clear. That is exactly the norm that Mr Monasch says: if you settle in the Netherlands, you have to settle in. And this integration includes mandatory acceptance of the values of Dutch society, including the freedoms we have just mentioned. If you do not, there will be consequences: a fine, no permanent residence permit and, where possible, no residence status within the international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u146	We cannot accept everyone in the world, no matter how much we may want it from all our humanitarian values. Let's just start at the gate by saying that we're just giving the people a place that at least accepts Article 1 and is really on the run from war and violence. And the others: too bad, but if you're on the run and think you can impose oppressive values on others, that women shouldn't come to justice and that your faith should be dominant, then you won't find a home here. That is a refugee for whom there is no place in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u147	That is why the cabinet is in favour of a European approach to the problem, because then you can ensure that people are safe in their own region. But Europe will, of course, have to take responsibility for the reception of refugees. We can make demands, demand the distribution and demand what you can expect from people who settle here. This is part of government policy, but at the same time we know that in practice, for example in the Netherlands, we are dealing with the rules of the game that protect us all. And they're just as sweet to us. The policy on refugees should aim to ensure that people are safe in the country where they come from and that people are safe in the region. There too there must be a perspective for girls and women, with education and with the opportunity to work. But then too, Europe will always have to take its share. But then you can also ask people to conform to European values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u148	We're repeating ourselves, I think. Mr. Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u149	The Minister is very clear about the newcomers. He is also clear about the offer society makes. People end up coming here because they know we have Article 1. But in my speech I also talked about educational districts. What do we do with our own people who have lived and lived here for generations? The Minister knows how to do that. At the time, he said in response to a Facebook message: don't post a message until you have it read by your mother. That's raising. Would the Minister like to reflect on this and indicate how we can deal with intolerance and discrimination and all those expressions which are actually contrary to our values and which are done by our own children in our own society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u150	I think Mr Marcouch is quite right. It would be unjust to pretend that the hardening in society, the indecentness and aggression are only due to the arrival of refugees or the arrival of newcomers. That hardening is in our own society. You can see that along football fields, on school squares and on social media. The reaction means that we must also apply the values we set out for everyone in this country. This is a question of education, training and learning to deal with differences. We need to teach our children not to believe what the first Facebook page tells them. Above all, we must teach them to listen to each other better and to yell less at each other. That requires a huge effort. It lies first and foremost with parents, but society must also do something. The examples quoted by Mr Marcouch yesterday are inspiring. I have also seen examples showing that a peaceful school led to a peaceful neighborhood. I've seen examples of people learning in practice how to deal with disagreements and differences between themselves. I am convinced that the only way forward for the Netherlands is not: everyone back in their own booth, from their own point of view and from the certainty that what the other does is not right. It's about bringing back empathy and getting people talking to each other again, even if it's sometimes uncomfortable, even when it's sanding and also when it's painful. This way we can learn to understand each other again, from shared values. This applies to everyone, to newcomers but also to the people who are already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u151	It's a very short reaction. I believe the Minister and trust him to be in that position himself. But the question is, of course, what he can do from his responsibility to stimulate and support initiatives from society. I refer, for example, to an initiative such as the House of Peace in Almere, which I mentioned. I call the teacher who comes behind the front door to support the parents in their education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u152	I think it is worth supporting the initiatives that exist in municipalities and in schools. The same applies to the idea of giving people the right to vote, when they become 18, to point out what a privilege it is to live in a free, democratic society. It is worth combining and strengthening such initiatives. The Chamber is already entitled to do so, because that must be the result of Martijn van Dam's motion to make society resilient and to have those values expressed. I believe that we should work on this in words and deeds in the coming years, precisely in order to protect the free and healthy society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u153	The Chamber adopted a motion from my group chairman Segers and Mr Zijlstra of the VVD during the General Political Reviews on reciprocity as a criterion for undesirable foreign financing. Last week, the Minister stood in De Telegraaf with a roaring text: I am going to tackle the undesirable foreign funding. We have asked how that will happen. The answer to this is: "The cabinet considers it important to check whether the money comes from the government or from private organisations and what purpose it has before considering whether it is undesirable financing." That's a lot of ifs and buts. My first question is: what, according to the cabinet, objectives are and are not desirable? My second question is: why is the issue of reciprocity not simply being followed, when there is a ruling by a majority on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u154	Because, while respecting the freedom of religion, we need to find a solution to an undesirable phenomenon, namely buying with oil money extremist influence. That is what we, and I think Mrs Schouten, are about. Reciprocity can be a means, as it is used in Norway, but it is of course about the purpose. To achieve that goal, we take three steps. I think it is good that we are doing this together with the Muslim community in the Netherlands, because it is also affected by people who suddenly buy oil dollars and want to influence Dutch young people. The first step is to make agreements with the Muslim community: what kind of funding do you consider acceptable, which one doesn't, and how do you stop it? The second step, also in connection with the Rotterdam case, is more transparency: make sure you know where foundations get their money from. To this end, Minister Van der Steur will dust and improve the old proposal on transparency of foundations. Not every stamp club needs to make an annual report, but larger foundations where that is relevant, so that you get transparency. The third step is to explain the unwelcomeness of some forms of financing. At the moment, this can only be related directly to terrorism as financing. The FEC project looks at these flows of money. We will have to include these criteria in the law. It is then known in advance that financing leading to the spread of extremist and intolerant ideas contrary to the rule of law in the Netherlands is regarded as undesirable funding, which we want to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u155	The minister needs a lot of words to indicate where you're coming to goals. I understand that, too, because that's a bit of a listener. There may be a lot of differences in interpretation and it will also take a very long time before we have all established it. The issue of reciprocity is very objective. You can just determine whether it exists or not. This criterion is used in Norway. The cabinet can introduce this already. Why isn't the Minister planning to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u156	Because, according to our lawyers, implementing the motion in such a sec in the way that Mrs Schouten has put it into effect is contrary to the Constitution and the rule of law. It is our job to protect Dutch society from unwanted funding and unwanted influence, but in accordance with the rule of law. That requires you to be careful and precise about the goals and the criteria. That is why more words are needed than "reciprocity."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u157	The Minister said in his contribution that young people should be able to develop, but at the moment young people are being hampered in their development. That is the fault of this minister and his policy. He has published a study of Motivation in which Turkish-Dutch and Moroccan-Dutch youth were seen as IS/Daesh supporters. Those kids couldn't find an internship or a job. We have asked this Minister for an apology, because it later turned out that the investigation was a bullshit investigation and was incorrect. The Minister has broken a law, and he knows it. Is he willing to apologize today, after two years, to those young people and all those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr Öztürk referred to the discussion on a study carried out by Motivaction, an independent bureau, which could later be said to be open to discussion. I have already said that it is up to the researchers themselves to assess whether they are apologizing. If I get an investigation, even if the results are displeasure to me, then I may be expected not to keep it under my hat and not to hide it, also because of my active duty to provide information. Mr Öztürk spoke about the law. I think I recall that the Chamber has been informed several times about how we deal with the complex and sensitive issue of AOW payment to Holocaust victims and that a very large majority of the Chamber agrees with the government's line. I have much more to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u159	The Minister has been an investigator himself. He knew the investigation wasn't right. He abused it for his own political purposes. He's talked to other people about it weeks before. The director of Motivation also said he shouldn't. Wantedly, he's damaged young people. After two years, you can say you shouldn't have brought that out and apologized for it. Diederik Samsom is a man with balls. He just said he apologized for neglecting his group. You're a candidate for the list. You can honestly say you shouldn't have brought that out. Then there's my most important question. If the Minister refuses to admit that he did something that turned out not to be able to do afterwards, we unfortunately have to table a motion of censure in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u160	Mr Öztürk makes it a habit to introduce his questions with all kinds of lying and slanderous claims. I think that says a lot about his integrity and not mine. That means I'm not going into it any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u161	I would still like to talk about unwanted foreign funding. It is not just about financing to promote terrorism, but also about promoting intolerance. In my opinion, we can just call the animal by the name: it is mainly Salafist organisations and communities that do not accept the values we stand for. The Segers/Zijlstra motion on reciprocity was adopted by the Chamber. I heard the Minister say, in response to an interruption by Mrs Schouten, that it cannot be done on the basis of our rule of law, which is shown by a legal analysis. Is the Minister prepared to forward that legal analysis to the Chamber? If a country like Norway can do it, I wonder where the restrictions and obstacles are in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u162	That question seems perfectly legitimate and legitimate to me. Norway and, for example, Austria have a different relationship with Church and State than the Netherlands. That has far-reaching consequences. The presence of state religions makes it easier to interfere with the financing and content of religion. The Netherlands has a different system. The letter of 4 December will undoubtedly be the subject of a further debate. I will share what we have chosen so far on the legal possibilities and opportunities. However, let me make one thing clear: the purpose of the Chamber, namely to prevent unwanted funding, precisely in order to protect the rule of law, is taken over by the Cabinet. That is why we have announced that we will come forward with legislation. That's a major step in itself. That's complicated, I say to Mrs Schouten. We don't go ice cream in one night, because it's an important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u163	I was in Enschede last week at an integration course and it was really nice. The teacher asked the students in a fun way what, if they had to put some values and standards together, would come first in Dutch society. Without exception, the students put language at number one. Language is, of course, an important tool for living together, to understand each other, to meet each other and to get to know each other, including at work. Does the Minister share my view that if employers bring tens of thousands of people from other countries to the Netherlands to work here, they should also be obliged to teach them language not to alienate each other from the workplace and also from the point of view of safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u164	These are two legitimate objectives that Mrs Karabulut is talking about. From the point of view of safety, we are allowed to make demands on employers and we are doing so. From the point of view of integration, we cannot make demands on employers. However, I do agree with the objective. We must encourage employers to do so. In the meantime, we have concluded language agreements with a large number of employers. For example, the cleaning industry is very active in this. There are many employees who are not or not sufficiently powerful in the Dutch language and they are now investing heavily in it. This is good for the company, good for the atmosphere in the company, but also good for the workers, who then have more opportunities in the labour market. Yes, I very much agree that it is crucial that people learn the language and that they can participate. However, we cannot impose it as an obligation on employers. We can oblige it where it directly affects security and we can promote it through those language agreements, whatever we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u165	Wait a minute. We are all right to say that the Dutch language is an important value. We impose duties on people and then we organize it. However, when it comes to employers, we say that they get exemption: you can bring tens of thousands of people here because they are cheaper and make them work in the workplace, but we do not oblige you to teach them the language. That's not attitude, is it? I kindly ask the Minister if he and this cabinet are serious, if he also believes that language is important to all of us. I think that is what I want to look for solutions. Either he concludes an agreement with all employers, or he is looking for ways to oblige them, because this is not a do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u166	However, I would like to support the Dutch employers, who are very active in this area, who also have money for it, who invest in language agreements and who I even see enthusiasm for doing more about it. I would like to place that other image next to the image that Mrs Karabulut sketches. Yes, obligations can be imposed when it comes to safety. We're doing the same thing. Working conditions law is coercion. That can be monitored by the inspection. No, you can't suddenly impose a general obligation on all employers to teach all employees language. But I'm experiencing great willingness on the part of employers to do something about it. So that's what we're already using.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u167	Thank you. No, Mr Van Meenen. You've all been on this part. Actually, I'd like to move on to the Secretary of State. I'm sorry. A point of order? Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u168	A very long speech from the Minister. I asked one question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u170	Yes. Well, actually, I was gonna ask you another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u171	You're not dismembered, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u172	Not yet, Mr. Chairman, but if that helps...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr Van Weyenberg has also made the necessary interruptions, and they count as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u174	If it helps to split off, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u175	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u176	No new party has appeared today, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u177	No, that's why, so it's about time again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u178	You belong to your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u179	"The New Order." I call her "The New Order."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u180	I understand. I thank the Minister and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr President, I am not quite sure why you want to keep this debate so short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u182	Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u183	We're working on the SZW budget. It's a lot of money. My colleague Van Meenen wants to do his second interruption. With all due respect, it's 5:30. Normally, at this stage, the clock has been with the minister for hours. So I honestly do not understand why the number of interruptions is being reduced. I think everyone is an extraordinary figure. What's the problem? This is an important debate, the last with this minister. I honestly do not understand why you want to keep it tight in this way. I do not think that this will benefit the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u184	Thank you. We talked about this. There's been plenty of interruptions. There's been plenty of room to ask questions. We can't keep interrupting endlessly. I'm sorry. I know it's annoying. Even if it is now four o'clock, it is also about the quality of the debate, and that things are not repeated over and over again. I'm gonna stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u185	The quality of the debate? This is a debate on the budget; a major, important issue. We've been at it for two and a half hours. I really don't understand what the problem is, again. I don't quite understand the reason for this style. It is also very different from what I have been used to in the past budgetary debates, including with you, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u186	I see that there have been two hours and twenty minutes of interruptions and that the Minister has spoken 45 minutes of his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u187	Mr President, you are talking about the quality of the debate. Mr Van Meenen would add something to that quality, wouldn't he? I would be sorry if Members of Parliament could not ask what they want to ask during the last budget of this minister. I'd still like to ask, even if it's ten minutes, to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u188	No, I'm not gonna do that. Moreover, Mr Öztürk, with all due respect, you have not attended the whole debate. You came in at 5:00, and you committed one interruption. That's your right...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u189	But that's not up to you either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u190	No, but that's an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u191	You don't have to see that. That's not your job. We're a small fraction. I have to do several things at once. I have been able to ask my question, but I am also standing up for my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u192	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u193	You don't have to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u194	I note your absence during the Minister's term. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u195	Mr President, I would also like to express very explicit support for the procedural proposal that has just been made. Two spokesmen have been elected by most of the groups in this debate. Almost all groups have been the second spokesperson to represent the spokesperson for integration. It was a very large part of the Chamber's contribution yesterday. And it has been a fairly limited part of the total speaking time, because we have all waited nicely with interruptions until the end of the block. I would appeal to you to give Mr Van Meenen that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u196	Well. Mr Van Meenen, I'm going to go over my head. Do you remember what question you wanted to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u197	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u198	Yes, Mr. De Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u199	Mrs. Schouten first, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u200	How kind you are to each other when it comes to the number of interruptions!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u201	I certainly welcome Mr Van Meenen's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u202	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u203	But it's a little wider. I also support the point of order, because we are acting quite neatly today. We often rebel here, but that is not the case at the moment. This is such a big subject that I think there should be more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u204	Good. I'll allow one interruption. You agree, Mr De Graaf. I can tell from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u205	I would like to express my explicit support. Even if the Minister, the Secretary of State and we talk together until 5.30 p.m. to kill the plants, we are having a debate. And it is an important debate, so it must be possible to make progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u206	You had plenty of room to interrupt, Mr. De Graaf. You were there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u207	Yes, and I decide when to do that, but I also think that my colleagues should be given space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u208	But I'm dealing with the interruptions; just for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u209	I know, but I do want to support my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u210	That's very nice. Mr Van Meenen, what did you untie? You have a lot of fans all of a sudden. How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u211	By the way, I am very grateful to my fellow Members. Of course, the expectations are now very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u212	Yes. We're all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u213	So let me start a little uplifting. I would like to return to the distinction, which I also drew attention to yesterday, between norms, values and traditions. They run right through each other in this debate. The Minister talks about values, where he then says: that is Article 1, that is Article 6 of the Constitution. I think those are standards. Those are just laws. Everyone has to stick to that. When you talk about values, you're already in a situation where people think differently. I'd like to illustrate that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u214	With?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u215	...with a question from the integration exam. It's like this. I'm asking what the right answer is. Yasmine's mother is so forgetful she can't take care of herself anymore. What's Yasmine doing? A) She gives her mother her guest room. B) She tries to find a place for her mother in a nursing home. C) She's trying to get her mother admitted to the hospital. Now for the sake of convenience, I assume the last mistake is, because it costs so much money. And one of our standards, values, traditions is: it must always be economical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u216	What's the right answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u217	I'll bet the right answer... I haven't printed on my phone yet... she's gonna try to put her mother in a nursing home. My question is: what exactly are we doing here? Are we imposing Yasmine Dutch values? Do we tell her, no, don't offer your guest room, no, not that participation, no, to the nursing home? What is the purpose of this question, I ask the Minister. How does it fit into the image of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u218	Clear, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u219	1) What is the right answer? And 2) Why? Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u220	I am pleased that you have given the Van Meenen group an opportunity to ask this question on behalf of The New Order. But I do have to object to a mix of values and standards, because that is what Mr Van Meenen is doing here. It is not the case that what is in our Constitution is standards. These are the values of Dutch society, values that people died for: freedom of religion and expression, the right not to be discriminated against, the right to decide who you love. Those aren't standards. Those aren't habits. These are the values of Dutch society. Every time Mr Van Meenen says, as he did yesterday, 'yes, your values, my values; we should look at that', he is mistaken. These are shared values of Dutch society that are not negotiable. That's why they're in the Constitution. In the past we have been too shy about this too often. Then we said: people will find out, look, just shop a little bit. That's wrong. People have the right to know what kind of country they come in and what the values are, so that they also know how to really be a part of it and raise their children in it. The example given by Mr Van Meenen is not about values. This is about a part of the integration exam called: knowledge of Dutch society. So that's something completely different. How does it work here? How's it going here? There are many more questions that do not have the level of fundamental values, but which do test whether people know a bit about the Netherlands. You can make that distinction. I brought the declaration of participation for Mr Van Meenen, even though I have just seen it disappear into my pile of paper. It contains our values. We're asking everyone about that. That's a big improvement. D66 was laughing about that at first, but I think it's important that you carry those values out with each other. They are just as much the values of Mr Van Meenen as mine. These apply to everyone in Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u221	I'm really gonna distance myself from that. If there's something I don't want to laugh about, it's about our Constitution. I agree with the Minister that these values have ended up in our most important law. It has also become standards. But I warn against this melee of our values, our Jewish-Christian values, our values this and our values that, and our traditions. I drew attention to that yesterday. The VVD election programme literally states that teachers in the Netherlands must actively convey the Dutch traditions. Then we're on a slippery slope. If we want to pass all that on to the newcomer, I am very concerned about that. Should we not make it easier for the newcomer, so that one really focuses on the fundamental values and not on all kinds of assumed...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u222	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u223	... values and traditions that we look at very differently in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr Van Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u225	My values, subject to what is stated in the Constitution, are certainly not the same as those of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u226	You have already mentioned this in detail in your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u227	That's exactly what we did! Without D66's support, but we did. There has been a declaration of participation containing the values that we share here. There's no discussion about that. Those are the values we have in common. I'm responsible for that. I am responsible for dealing more explicitly with the values of the Netherlands for newcomers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u229	We should stop saying: if you want to know how fast you have to drive, just look at the speed sign. We put that speed sign after every 100 meters, but we don't tell what our values are. If Mr Van Meenen's forced interruption ends by asking me to take responsibility for the VVD election programme, we are far from home. I am responsible for many things, but explicitly not for the VVD election programme. I don't wish to be either. I stand for cabinet policy, explicitly with regard to Dutch values, so that we welcome people here and tell them what kind of country they can find their future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u230	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u231	Mr. Chairman. I am happy to stand, because we should not have missed this last interruption. The Minister's spokesman also speaks for himself. First of all, I would like to thank Members very much for their input in the first term. The Minister has thanked our supporters and I would like to thank them. Let that be very clear for a moment. Mr President, with your permission, I will also work with blocks in my reply. I will first mention some general issues, after which I will deal with three blocks: the Participation Act and the Job Agreement, poverty and debt, and the old age provision. We have already answered a number of questions in writing. Like all members of the cabinet, I would first like to mention the fact that this is, of course, a special moment. It's the last budget discussion. We've seen a number of things happen in the last four years. There has been a strong economic crisis, which has affected almost all Dutch people, and far-reaching reforms have been launched. There were, of course, also cuts in the budget. This does not immediately win the popularity prize, but we must, of course, simply take responsibility. My particular attention was and is focused on the most vulnerable groups. They will, of course, get it extra if it doesn't go economically well. By tackling poverty and debt, we have ensured that these groups also have a perspective. We have also given way to people with disabilities by requiring employers to make more room for these people in their workplace. Furthermore, we have ensured that the AOW has remained upright. It is indexed every year, so that everyone can count on a basic pension later. Of course, we didn't do all this in some kind of splendid isolation. We have been able to take very great steps thanks to the commitment and support of many people and organisations. The coalition agreement was followed by the social agreement with the social partners. We have also always sought the widest possible support in the Chamber. It was important not only in the First Chamber but also in the Second Chamber to achieve very fundamental legislation with the broadest possible support. We have explicitly sought dialogue with society. One example of this is, of course, the National Pension Dialogue. Without that dialogue, including with your Chamber, nothing will happen. Actually, that's always been the case. 60 years ago, on 23 March 1956, the General Old Age Law was passed in your Chamber. The author of the bill was not Willem Drees, as many people always think, but his and my party mate Ko Suurhoff. When dealing with the bill, he said in the Lower House that it is not important for one party to annex the AOW for itself. In doing so, he humbled himself, because the AOW was and is more than the success of a minister or a political party. He was and is the success of our parliamentary democracy and our welfare state. Together, we have introduced the AOW, further and further improved and eventually adapted to the increased life expectancy. This applies not only to the AOW but also to the Participation Act and all the other laws and measures we have dealt with here over the last four years. It's really the work of all of us. We have talked a lot over the last few years, sometimes it has been very spicy and tough, but we have achieved a great deal with each other to keep our social system solid and united and to allow people with disabilities to participate fully and fully. Of course, we're not done yet. A good number of interruptions went on about that, but we're on our way. Thanks to the commitment of all the partners in the country, who are literally and figuratively involved in the implementation, and of course thanks to the commitment of the Chamber, we are taking steps forward. We're getting a lot of letters and reactions. We also hear and see what lives on work visits. The point is that we are discussing the issues that are at stake here today. So let's look together at how we can take away people's concerns as much as possible and how we can offer people perspective. Mr President, I would like to start with the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u232	I would like to know how the Secretary of State is going to offer prospects to those nearly 500 000 people in the assistance. It will not have escaped her notice that nearly 80,000 people have been helped by the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u233	Of course, people are also in the welfare sector because they have lost their jobs or for some other reason. Of course, that has everything to do with the economic crisis. There are now also people coming to our country for assistance who have come to our country as refugees. However, Mrs Karabulut has a point, because all those people in the assistance must have and keep perspective. I know that we here, as well as city leaders, are doing an enormous amount of work to support these people. You can also see very good examples of this in the Netherlands. On the basis of our legislation, we are doing everything we can to provide the tools for the practitioners so that they can support the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u234	I'm kind of done with this. It's been like this for years. The disabled would get a fair job and a fair wage. There's 250,000 on the sidelines. A large proportion of the young disabled have not been accompanied to work, but have been helped. When I ask for solutions and the Secretary of State points out that this policy, this policy, has led to more unemployment and a policy that punishes the unemployed, she points to municipalities. Does she at least recognise, at the end of the journey, that the Act of Participation and the tightening-up have led to very painful social situations? People have worked for decades and are then humiliated. They must be forced to work without pay in a factory hall. Does the Secretary of State at least recognise that unemployment has grown as a result of this policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u235	As I said, we have ensured, on the basis of the Participation Act, that people who do not have a job are guided to the labour market and well-equipped at municipal level. Your Chamber did not agree so long ago that, for example, a no-risk policy has been put in place indefinitely for people who can go to guarantee jobs, so that these people can also enter the employer's payroll for an indefinite period of time, which is a great asset. In short, we've got a lot of things going on here. This is just one example of what's going on in the Participation Act, so people can get to work much faster. I'll be on my first block. It's about the Participation Act. Reforms are, of course, aimed at lowering thresholds, giving people with disabilities access to the workplace by regular employers. They've been on the sidelines for a long time. More and more employers are open to the fact that these employees deserve a place. In the social agreement, 125,000 jobs were agreed. The workplace is becoming increasingly accessible to people who belong to the target group. Of course it's not just talking and thinking. I really do notice a cultural change with employers. More and more employers see what people with disabilities can contribute instead of being focused on what these people couldn't do. In the first year of the Participation Act, 21,000 places have already been set up for people from the target group of the Jobs Agreement. That is a good first step, but there are many more to follow if we really want to make this inclusive labour market a reality. If bottlenecks arise, we will do everything in our power to remove them in consultation with the parties concerned. I get good recommendations from the Work Room, where social partners, municipalities and UWV work closely together. The Chamber is working with me to incorporate these into legislation if necessary. The two drivers, Mr Van der Gaag, who are monitoring the employment agreements on behalf of VNO-NCW, and Mr Spigt, who is doing this on behalf of the governments, indicate that it is really important to stay on board for the good result. After all, 21 000 jobs in the first year are, of course, fantastic in themselves, but it must remain upright. The point is that we make sure that these jobs are not dealt with for an indefinite period of time. That's why this no-riskpolis is so incredibly important. We have that uniform no-risk policy and we have introduced a uniform premium discount. Students of special education and practical education can be directly included in the target group register. To help people get to work even faster with labour costs subsidies, we have taken further measures from 1 January 2017. They aim to relieve employers when hiring people with disabilities and to eliminate financial risks and bureaucratic obstacles as far as possible. Last week, the Chamber adopted a legislative proposal to significantly simplify access to the target population register of people from the municipal target group who cannot earn the statutory minimum wage through the practical route. If I'm well informed, the First Chamber will give a slap on that next week. This practical route can then take shape as from 1 January. Then new sheltered work, which was not enshrined in the law, can still be anchored in the law. That's, I think, totally fine. After all, as I often say, a law is not an end in itself but an instrument. If that instrument can be improved, then you certainly should not. The recently launched candidate scout now has 60,000 anonymised resumes of people from the target group eager to get to work. They're dying to join us. Mr Kerstens I know that it also applies to the VVD Group. I have asked to see how we can get the candidate scout to fill up further. It is essential that the municipalities too, and even more enthusiastically, fill the candidate scout with the CVs of potential employees. Of course, municipalities and the UWV have to ensure that there are to a large extent profiles of candidates, so that people can be found and selected and so that employers can take a good look at the candidate explorer. To promote that, we are now engaged in various actions. The Programme Council supports municipalities and labour market regions with a flying brigade. The UWV explores with some municipalities whether they can read municipal profiles, in order to avoid double registration. The UWV also explores whether it can support municipalities by 1 January with the manual filling out of customer profiles. Furthermore, from 1 February onwards, the UWV will make available a quarterly report on transparency by labour market region. I think this is very important, because it will enable all partners in the labour market regions to see how far this has progressed. Given the limited number of municipal profiles currently present in the candidate scout, I think it is a good idea. I have seen the amendment to send a one-off boost to the labour market regions so that they can catch up with filling the candidate scout. Employers' service points must be firmly anchored in the regions. That too is important. The establishment of labour market infrastructure is an issue that goes beyond the Participation Act. If the job seeker mediation system works well, all target groups benefit from it, not only those with disabilities, but also young people, 50-plussers, nuggets and licence holders. With the right support they can all get to work. Of course, this also makes it possible to make good use of the SW-company instrument. The expertise and associated infrastructure that has been built over the years within the SW companies is indispensable for the successful implementation of the Participation Act, not only for the organisation of sheltered work but also for the realisation of the job agreement. I really want to distance myself from the view that SW companies have had their longest time. That is by no means the case. As far as I am concerned, SW companies continue to play a very important role. Fortunately, I also see municipalities making full use of it. I saw that in Apeldoorn and Leiden, for example, but also in Helmond and in West Friesland. SW companies are transforming into companies of the 21st century. In order to ensure the smooth transition of social services, the Court has also made funds available for this purpose, with additional funds of EUR 30 million. I decided to inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2017 about the results of the deployment of these funds. I was just telling you that we've arranged new sheltered work by law. Of course, the SW company has an important role to play in this. A new collective agreement has been concluded for the people covered by the WSW. Mr Van Weyenberg asked why a beneficiary should not temporarily keep 50% of the additional earnings. With the experiments in the Participation Act, the Cabinet makes it possible to examine whether a wider income release leads to more outflow to work from the benefit. The cabinet wants to allow experiments with a release of 50% of the revenue for 24 months. The maximum release is €199 per month for single people and €142 for married couples together. A wider release than that, as Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out, does not correspond to the temporary nature of the law. In order to prevent a fall in poverty, which can hinder the withdrawal from the assistance, we do not therefore choose to do so in the experiment. However, there is a lot of space in the experiment. The draft decision is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. I expect this to come back soon and we can see the draft decision coming into force in early 2017. Mr President, I think that I have dealt with the issues raised by Members of Parliament concerning the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement, and with the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u236	The Secretary of State states that she believes that the current AMvB offers a lot of space. Municipalities don't think so, nor does a majority of the House. They believe that we should give more room for this and that we should let go of this severe intensification group. I would therefore like to have a response to that and also to the question of compensation. There are now municipalities which, if it is up to the State Secretary, are excluded from this experiment because they do not require any consideration. Why is that so important to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u237	I'll start with that last one. The Participation Act requires a contribution from welfare recipients. On the basis of Article 18 of the Participation Act, municipalities are free to consider, per beneficiary, what best suits the man or woman in question. The consideration really belongs in the Participation Act. Therefore, if municipalities have not included the consideration in their regulation, they cannot deviate from that regulation in the sense that they offer freedom within the experiment. This applies to a number of municipalities; we have had the inspection carried out. That is why we require municipalities that want to participate in the experiment to have translated the entire Participation Act into their regulation. Mrs Voortman's first question was: do you think there is enough room in the AMvB? Yes, I do. We have, of course, also debated this in our general consultations. The Chamber has also found some of that. I think we have found a good balance in the experiment by offering freedom on the one hand and being able to accompany people more firmly on the other, so that we can see very well what could work on the end of the journey. So I think that freedom, that space, is good at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u238	The Secretary of State says about the consideration actually: rules are rules. But the point is that we are doing these experiments because we want to show more confidence in people, because we think that not working so repressively might actually make people work sooner. Then it is very strange that you give some municipalities more space, but then you say: but you have to do this rule? I would really like to ask the Secretary of State to delete the consideration. The AMvB doesn't say that it's necessarily necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u239	If you exempt people from all kinds of obligations, you must have a clear understanding of what those obligations were originally. Otherwise, you can't protect them from it. That is why it is not surprising to look at the regulation in question, because the group that receives exemption receives exemption from application and consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u240	The Secretary of State just said warm words about the SW companies; "social workshops" we'll just call them. I have here a quote from someone who says: 'You cannot say on the one hand that SW companies are important for the implementation of the Participation Act and the Jobs Agreement and, on the other hand, make the use of that knowledge and infrastructure financially impossible'. Maybe the Secretary of State knows who made this statement. It was signed, Job Cohen. I thought the Secretary of State was supposed to be aware of that. There is now a hole of some 360 million between the calculations of the Ministry and those of Cedris, the dome of the SW companies. We sometimes have some differences of opinion about figures here, but 360 million is quite a considerable amount. The Secretary of State says it's possible. How can Mr Cohen say that he can't? Is the Secretary of State actually saying that Mr Cohen is lying?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u241	Ahum, Mr President, I would never say that Mr Cohen is lying. Mr Cohen is chairman of the umbrella over all SW companies. The dome, Cedris, has put forward Mr Cohen, of course, has not done so personally that there could be a shortage of information on the coming years. I have exchanged views with the Chamber that I am constantly looking at the development of the situation. I am very open about this task, but we also have to look again and again at how the outflow from the SW company is manifesting itself. About the 2015 Annual Disc, the first year of the Participation Act, it appeared that the outflow was slightly larger than originally budgeted. Meaning that municipalities had something left over at the time. In the first half of 2016 we gave the Chamber an insight into the fact that, as it now looks like, the outflow is still well up and that it is even slightly larger than budgeted. As it now looks like, municipalities at the end of the ride could thus also have some left over this year's disc. I am sure that I have also promised the Chamber that I will review the situation with Cedris and the VNG every year. If it is true that municipalities really lack significant money, of course we are looking at how we can resolve it together. That's one. Now we have a second. The Chamber has made 100 million available for the creation of new shelters. These funds are also available for municipalities to use freely. That's what I want to do with the Spring Note. That's what I promised the Chamber, so that's what I'm gonna do. This can also be of great help to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u242	So the Secretary of State doesn't say Cedris is completely wrong. I didn't hear her say the quote was wrong. As a result of a motion by Mrs Voortman, she said that we are going to look at the evaluation in 2019 to see whether it is all possible and whether the resources are sufficient. That seems to me to be rather late, because it may be that the beautiful infrastructure the Secretary of State is talking about will be gone by now. I think we should avoid that. Is the Secretary of State prepared not only to look at the five times 20 million that may become available for the Spring Note, but also to talk to the municipalities? 'Cause we're really getting a lot of signals right now. Can it now also leave room to say that I will make even more available in the spring note if it turns out that it really is not possible? I really hope that the cabinet will give that space to at least prevent the SW companies from falling over in some places, because then we will be too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u243	As I just mentioned in my speech, the SW companies are worth a sweet thing to me. We now have insight into the first half of 2016. I'm going to do my utmost to have an insight into the whole of 2016 before the Spring Note is presented to the Chamber. I have already promised the VNG I think I have also told the Chamber that I am going to check every year with the VNG whether we are in line with the original outflow figures that we had budgeted. This is a real commitment on my part, because of course you have to look at the way it develops financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u244	That's a bullshit saying, because every company knows you can't run a business like that. The point is that Mr Cohen is absolutely right. The Secretary of State is responsible for the political decision to make a social death home for SW companies. Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union has signed for this. But my question to the Secretary of State is: why does it not allow the municipality of Amsterdam, which operates social policy in all areas and helps people to work, to participate in an experiment that it does make possible for other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u245	That's not specifically about the social work company. I said what I said about that. As far as I'm concerned, the social work company is still standing. If the municipality of Amsterdam would like to participate in the experiment, it should, of course, also consider whether the regulation is entirely in order. That's what I ask of every city, whether it's big or small. The regulation is not entirely correct on one part. If the regulation is in order, the municipality of Amsterdam can simply participate in the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u246	This shows how sick this law is and how sick this policy is. On the one hand, the cabinet says that we leave municipalities free and give them the responsibility, with all the discounts, to ensure that they help people to work. On the other hand, the Secretary of State says: no municipality, you have to punish job seekers by forcing them to do voluntary work, a route by which jobs are replaced, and if you do not, then I will bully you and punish you even more by excluding you from a social experiment. I find this really insane policy, insane politics and in no way explainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u247	The Secretary of State, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u248	Yes, of course. This staining just doesn't cut wood. I have, I can report, good connections with municipalities and require all municipalities to apply the law. There's a reason people call themselves "alderman." I invite all the municipalities to participate in the experiments, if that's convenient for them. We have said that at least 25 municipalities can participate. I think that's a great thing. So again, if the municipality of Amsterdam wants to get in and do it neatly on the basis of a regulation that complies with the law, then I am very happy if she says yes to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u249	In recent months, we have made improvements to the Participation Act on a number of points. That was also necessary, because the figures were left behind, whether it is the bureaucracy that has been removed with the practical route, the pilots with purchasing from social enterprises or the candidate scout. I asked yesterday about the BIZ platforms. There is a pilot in three places, which gives very nice results because it is not the stick of the quota that is being dealt with, but to build something beautiful from the root together. I think there are opportunities there. From these pilots, a cooperative association is now being set up to bring it to the attention of the nationwide. The Secretary of State writes in response to the questions that she wants to put it in a letter, but I would like her to go one step further and sit down with this cooperative association and the VNG to see what she can do to encourage things to get off the ground in more places.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u250	When the BIZ platforms were very early, about a year ago, I talked to the initiators. I think it is a very catchy initiative and I have therefore also promised that, if they had reached a new stage, they would again be very welcome to me. If this is the time to highlight that invitation, I say: fine. I would like the initiators to join me at the table to see how I can stimulate that BIZ platforms can take all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u251	It is a good thing that the Secretary of State repeats what she said earlier, namely that in the spring she will look at whether there is a financial problem at the social workshops or not on the basis of the results for 2016. If that were the case, I repeat my own words from the debate two weeks ago. Two weeks ago, we had a debate here about imposing an obligation on municipalities to create sheltered workplaces. That's 30,000 times a wage instead of a benefit. It's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u252	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u253	I asked in the first term for a similar movement towards municipalities when it comes to testing for displacement. Similar in that we make it clear that something must be done: sheltered workplaces in one case, tests for displacement in the other. Of course, it's up to congregations to look at how they shape it and how they shape it on displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u254	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u255	In the written answers I have seen that the Secretary of State is still not very enthusiastic about this. I would still like to push ahead with it, because the prevention of displacement and the appointment of an orderly procedure is really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u256	Of course, I very much agree with Mr Kerstens, but I do not want to impose restrictions on municipalities. I sincerely believe that professionals and municipal councils should follow their directors: what exactly is going on in this labour market and is being pushed about? The good thing is that in the labour market regions that trade union movement is increasingly going to blow a party along. It is precisely the trade union movement that could play a major role in this. That is what we are going to do more and more. Municipal councils must be on top of it. There are very nice examples in the Netherlands. I would like to measure these examples with great pleasure, but I am not going to oblige municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u257	That's what I hear the Secretary of State say. I've been on this microphone before to hammer on this theme. After I insisted on it, there were no rules of the game for nothing either. Handles have come to see: when is it displacement and when is it not? The Secretary of State also knows the report following the investigation of the SZW inspection which shows that, despite everything we have done about it, despite all the times we have talked about it, only 49% of the municipalities are doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u258	Well, then it'll help that we're back on the table. It must be made clear that local councils and trade unions are keeping the situation under review. I'm gonna go through with this to bring this to light. I come to the block of poverty and debt. They really go deep into people's lives. The consequences are often disruptive for the people themselves who are in debt, and for their children. I often hear and see this on work visits in the country, in talks with directly affected people and in consultation with civil society organisations. Financial stress caused by poverty and debt often causes health problems and often goes hand in hand with other problems. There is currently a compelling documentary on TV about Amsterdam-Noord. I went to work there, too. It shows how intense the problems of poverty and debt are sometimes raised. Society as a whole is affected. The social costs of poverty and debt are high. I am thinking of the cost of debt restructuring, but also of the cost of care, for example. For the people themselves it is really very firm. Mr Krol asked what the cabinet is doing to achieve this comprehensive debt relief. I can tell you that the cabinet has put the fight against poverty high on the agenda from the outset and has also intensified it. In the coalition agreement, 100 million euros were made available to municipalities and civil society organisations. After years of rising poverty, also due to the crisis, studies show that the decline has finally started. Since 2014, poverty has declined, according to the recent report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau "Map of Poverty." This is without prejudice to the fact that there are still many people who have to live on low incomes. Important steps have therefore been taken in the area of poverty policy and debt reduction. It is well known that we are in the process of drafting a legislative proposal to simplify the unwound foot. Mr President, I assume that we will have the legislative proposal with you very soon, and I hope that your Chamber will take this proposal very seriously. The AMvB moratorium is now in the hands of the Council of State, and I expect it to reach the Official Journal at the beginning of next year. That was a question from Mrs Schouten, Mr Heerma or both. With the implementation of the Rijksincasso vision we are busy. I sent a letter to the Chamber. In addition to all these measures, the cabinet provides a structural EUR 100 million extra for children in poverty, so that all children with a thick line under "all"! In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a With Mr Heerma, I agree with the importance of involving children in poverty policy. I also agreed to this with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. I also note that there are concerns in the Chamber about the visibility of people in poverty. Also following a recent report by Church in Action, Mrs Schouten asked why people in poverty are seen and helped by churches, but apparently not sufficiently visible to the municipalities. She also asked me to start a pilot in which people in debt have only one point of contact, something which, of course, is very important to those people. I believe that churches, but not only churches, are also, of course, doing very valuable work on the issue of poverty and debt for all kinds of other bodies. It is also very good that churches refer people to the municipalities. It remains important that municipalities and all these bodies, churches and civil society organisations work very closely together. I will bring the report of Church in Action to the attention of the congregations through the collection letter. I think it is very important that we involve that one contact point. I have just seen very nice examples of debt help buddies doing excellent work and also wanting to be that one contact point. So I'd really like to get on with that. Furthermore, municipalities have the opportunity to offer tailor-made services to people with poverty and debt problems. You can see, of course, that after decentralisation, the debt problem is more and more a factor in this transferable kitchen table. I think that is getting better and better, but I will continue to appeal to the municipalities. I support municipalities in improving municipal debt relief. Of course, we have the Municipal Debt Aid Act. That law has been in force since 2012 and has just been evaluated. This shows that there are still a number of things that can be improved. I made EUR 7.5 million available for this. The professionalization of debt relief is carried out by Divosa, VNG, NVVK, the National Clients Council and Social Work Netherlands. Professionalisation is thus strengthened, and it shows that this issue is very much on the agenda. I was just talking about that documentary. This shows that prevention and early warning are essential in the fight against debt and poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u259	Are you going to continue or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u260	This was the cube. I'm trying to be as short of dust as possible. Mr Krol is pressing forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u261	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u262	I was a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u263	I can tell from Mr Krol that it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u264	The Secretary of State mentioned stress situations and the invisibility of people living in poverty. People living in poverty are not invisible. You just have to want to see them! The Secretary of State was able to see this during her visit to Amsterdam-Noord. You must want to see them! What has caused stress for a lot of people is the household care fine imposed by the Secretary of State and the Deputy Prime Minister. As a result, families with children lack €200 per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u265	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u266	They are €200 short. My question, which I have already asked during my speech, is whether the Secretary of State will finally ensure that this stress is removed next year by removing the cost of care. Is she gonna get more air so people can live without stress?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u267	We have introduced the cost-sharing standard in the assistance because people, if they can share costs, actually have less costs. That's what you see when people are married. We have talked about this many times. The cost sharing standard in the AOW has been postponed until 1 January 2019. So it doesn't introduce this cabinet anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u268	Just as the Secretary of State doesn't want to see the poor people, she doesn't listen. Research has been done by now. There are families that are being torn apart, while family members take care of each other, and later this will entail more costs. I'm gonna try to explain it again. Stress arises, as the Secretary of State says, because people cannot make ends meet and because they build debts. One reason for this is this care allowance. It causes stress. People can't make ends meet. So the theory doesn't match those people's practice. Is the Secretary of State gonna take care of this for all those begging people? There's a six-billion-dollar windfall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u269	We have, of course, arranged that municipalities, where assistance is provided, can always help families when there are urgent needs. That is also what happens in practice. I see a lot of good examples of municipalities that, on the basis of Article 18, there you have the weather really do the famous customization for these families. That's what I want to get excited about. I also brought it to the attention of the collector's letter. Mrs Karabulut has a point when she says that these people sometimes need that help. In addition, the Cabinet has made additional resources available to help older people confronted with this cost sharing standard in the AIO. The AIO is also a form of assistance, but for the elderly. The municipalities are free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u270	I would like to draw your attention once more to something I mentioned in the first term. On the contrary, we encounter a lot of people knocking on the door of municipalities in vain, because they are small self-employed. Very often municipalities say: no, you are eligible only if you are an employed person. As a small self-employed person, one should stop his business. "Try to get a job," these self-employed people are told, while they are often very hard-working people. I urge the Secretary of State to call for special attention to be given to this subject once again, in consultation with the municipalities, because this group must not fall apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u271	I very much agree with Mr Krol. In fact, we already have a provision for this, as Mr Krol may know. That provision has been in place for ten years. We've given it quite a bit of publicity. I would like to highlight them once again in the direction of municipalities, because municipalities can simply work with them. Many municipalities are also working on it by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u272	You and I know this arrangement, but it turns out in practice that a lot of municipalities do not seem to have it on the retina. Thank you for doing this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u273	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u274	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u275	The last block is about old age provision, AOW and pensions. Several members of the Chamber have asked questions about this. If it was not clear yet, it is now clear that the subject is alive, and not just in this Chamber. A good old age provision is a great thing, and we have a good old age provision in the Netherlands. We have a good system. Internationally, we score a second place. The most important foundation in that system is the welfare-proof AOW. It really belongs to all of us. Thanks to this AOW, poverty among older people in the Netherlands is one of the lowest in the world and elderly people in the Netherlands have the lowest risk of poverty. So that's a big good that we have to keep straight. Fortunately, people are getting older. But because people are living longer and longer, we face the challenge of making the AOW sustainable for the future, so that the AOW is collectively affordable for future generations and feasible for each individual. This means that it is inevitable that the AOW age will rise and that people will work longer. I am aware that this is sometimes very difficult for people and that this message is painful for people just before the retirement age. The AOW age is therefore gradually increased so that people can prepare. For those who already had an early retirement or a similar allowance on 1 January 2013 and could not prepare for the increase in the AOW age, the Cabinet has taken the temporary AOW bridging scheme. With this arrangement, I would like to offer a provision in distressing situations. I have always had an explicit ear for signals from society, because since 2013, the regime has been adapted and extended several times. I have sent to the Chamber in writing on which items it has done so. The income test has gone from 200% to 300% legal minimum wage. The extension of the target group to similar cases such as those with private disability benefits has been addressed. We have embarked on the extension of the scheme to 2022. And there has been a broadening of the accelerated increase in the AOW age. Since the use of the bridging scheme was lagging behind expectations, I recently made it possible for the Social Insurance Bank to reappell after the age of 65 years and that the bridging scheme can also be applied retroactively. The most important thing, of course, is that we help people to get the AOW if they have no other source of income. It is, of course, also important for people to be able to reach their retirement age in a healthy way. Cabinet policy is therefore aimed at sustainable employability, so that people are increasingly able to work to the age of retirement. There is an important role for the social partners. In some individual cases, people may not always experience the increase in the AOW age. Mrs Voortman has drawn attention to this. I believe that the social partners should be very much involved in this too. The judge has recently ruled on the increase in the AOW age. The Central Board of Appeal has said that the AOW pensionable age can be raised. Of course, you have to look carefully at the consequences of this every time. So much for the AOW. Of course, we also have supplementary pensions. In addition to the strong foundation of the AOW, you can build a second pillar pension with your employer. The pension funds are struggling with low interest rates, because low interest rates make the liabilities more expensive and make indexing difficult for many funds. We are talking about the possibility that there might even be discounts. I have had this debate many times. Of course, I could say very easily: you know what, throw that arithmetic rate up to 4% or even higher. Then everyone is happy and we can index with retroactive effect. I might win the popularity prize, because then we all get the predicate that we saved the pensioners. That sounds very attractive, but I'm not that kind of driver, maybe to my own tragedy, but it's just the way it is. I would then saddle the successor of my successor with the fragments and perhaps even my successor already. If Cabinets continue for a while with a fictitious interest rate and if it is held high, there is absolutely no need to shorten it and it can be indexed, but it does not have a long life. This applies to all generations that are coming, not just the younger ones. It just applies to all generations. The commitments have also increased in recent years. This is primarily due to the fact that more people are getting old. There is a large group of people who will retire in the coming years. It's gonna take money. Secondly, the reduction in interest rates has increased the liabilities of the funds. As in savings accounts, pension fund interest rates are low. So you need more money to meet all the obligations in the future. A lower interest rate therefore makes pensions more expensive. That really is not a typical Dutch phenomenon. All countries with a capital-covered system suffer from this. The Central Planning Bureau has recently shown this again with an investigation. I welcome the fact that we are not calculating high interest rates that are fictitious, as is the case in other countries. Because of these high interest rates, the bottom of the pension fund soon becomes visible. It has always been the case that pensions were only raised afterwards on the basis of realised investment gains and not on the basis of dreamed profits. You have to make the money before you spend it. I think it's important to have said that again. I also shared with the Chamber that I am closely monitoring the situation with the social partners, the pension sector, the supervisory board, the elderly and young people. In the end, the situation will be decisive on 31 December. In January, I'll tell you what's going on. Then I'll tell you how the cabinet wants to deal with it. We have done a great deal of preparatory work on improving the system otherwise. We've prepared a perspective paper. The next cabinet will take the necessary steps to keep our pension system up and ready for the rest of the 21st century. I called on the social partners to take the lead. Nobility required. I hope that they will give this further direction in the coming months, so that a next cabinet can take it neatly into the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u276	Yesterday, many opposition parties and also both coalition parties commented on the bridging regime and on the fact that its use is much lower than all estimates predicted, while the number of complaints is increasing. There's something paradoxical about that. In my view, both coalition parties have also indicated that this bridging arrangement itself, its frameworks, what about the capital requirement and how is it dealt with that people who first arrange something and then make a claim to it? It should also be kept under review. The Secretary of State replied that she would like to examine again whether its use could be promoted. Does it mean that only the scheme as it stands is being looked at and how it can be used or, in accordance with what all the groups asked for yesterday, will it also look at the nature of the scheme itself? That was the wish expressed here by a very broad majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u277	In any case, I have just reported that I am already doing so, and I am promoting the use of the bridging mechanism. That is where I, together with the Social Insurance Bank, remain enormously involved. I can see that's helping. The longer it is to be bridged, the more people are going to make use of the scheme. Then the question is whether I want to keep the frameworks under review and really look at the nature of the arrangement. I would like to do it again, on the understanding that I would like to tell the Chamber that if I am going to do that and if it turns out that something could come out of it, I would say it all very carefully. We must realize that retroactivity will be very difficult. I'd like to give you that profit warning right now. That's what I'm gonna tell the room. I agree that the use is low. We had originally estimated it higher. If I can stimulate the use, I certainly won't let it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u278	I think we're getting a little further on this. Now that the use of the bridging regime is so low, the picture cannot be that there are apparently no problems, because we are all getting too many signals that there are problems. Whatever is or is not the problem with retroactive effect and how much money is needed, we can look at it after it has been looked at. But, again, is the Secretary of State prepared to examine not only how to promote use by 1 March, but also whether the regulation, or the frameworks of the scheme, address the problems that exist sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u279	The answer may be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u280	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u281	I missed the answers to two questions. I didn't see it in the written set either. The first is whether the Secretary of State would like to be charged again by the Central Planning Bureau, which would mean that a 2% or 4% interest rate would already be charged. The second is whether it can send more detailed scenarios and further information to the Chamber within this cabinet period about the abolition of the average premium system and whether this can be done even less than 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u282	I'll let you know in writing. I really want to verify that with the CPB. Of course, I have already thought more about the calculation rate. You can pass on all kinds of percentages, but that of course gets a dynamic in itself. I didn't say for nothing that if you grab a fictitious arithmetic rate, at whatever level, this will by definition lead to a fictitious impact on our system. That's what I keep saying. That is why I do not choose to charge the interest rates in such a way that we could play with them, because this is not something you are going to play with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u283	No, and of course that's exactly what I'm trying to prevent. That is why I would like to show that, in my opinion, this is not balanced in terms of generations. May I ask the Secretary of State the following? She undertook to return to my first question in writing. We're gonna have VAO pensions soon. That is a follow-up meeting in which motions can be tabled. I'd appreciate it if the letter could be there for that AO. I'd also like the Secretary of State to take another look at it. I understand what she doesn't want, which is something that can almost be seen as a blueprint. That's totally not my intention. The Secretary of State knows that. But perhaps the CPB, perhaps a little more extensive than in its recent note, can deal with the generational effects of a small, or very serious, increase in arithmetic interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u284	Of course, the CPB has already said some excellent things about this and, by the way, the Nederlandsche Bank. So I'm not ready to go right away. I would, however, like to send the answer to the second question to the Chamber before the VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u285	I have just taken up the answers to the written questions and, of course, the answers in our direction. And what does my eye see? The Secretary of State does not count on the accumulated reserves. I am talking about over EUR 1 200 billion. In her reply, the Secretary of State pretends that indexing pensions for people who are now receiving benefits would depend on the young people who are now building up their pensions. Why does the Secretary of State refuse to acknowledge that the 1,200-1,250 billion was built up precisely by the older person and that you can use a small piece of that to index? Of those 1,250 billion, only a very small part of that younger group. I made an extensive statement yesterday, but the Secretary of State simply omitted that fact. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u286	Our pension system is based on collectivity, solidarity and compulsoryity, and I think that is a very good thing. This means that the 1,200 or 1,300 billion pot sounds like a lot, and that's a lot of us too. It belongs to people who, together with their employer, have saved that money. The commitments made by the funds to all those participants are pensioners and those who are currently laying in premiums are more than that amount. We know this because the level of coverage of the fund is simply inadequate. So we can't just say to a group in society: okay, now you're getting a lot of money and for that other group we'll have to see if that's gonna work out. That is why I said what I said, namely that I could make myself immeasurably popular. Mr De Graaf does this with so many words, I think by saying: you know what, let us give a certain group in society a lot of money out of that pot and then what happens to the rest of the groups, we will see again. So I'm not one of them. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u287	This is not about popularity, it is about justice. It is about justice for the elderly who now earn their pension and who have earned it by working hard. And why does solidarity take that word in the State Secretary's mouth too? Why does it just have to go from old to young? Why doesn't it go from young to old? The Secretary of State warns of solidarity from young to old. That should solve a problem that is not there, but if that solidarity is really needed from young to old, then the Secretary of State is not ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u288	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u289	I'm almost done, Mr President, but I'm getting a little nervous about the rush we're being pushed into. Mr President, I apologise, but I can hardly keep my mind at rest to reason. I feel like there's a express train going through the House of Representatives when it's a budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u290	Yes. You have all the space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u291	I don't know if people have to leave early or something. To get back to my question: that interest rate has also been appointed by the Secretary of State, and that is exactly where the problem lies. All those years that the interest rate was higher, it was lower. Why can't the interest rate, now that it's lower, be set a little higher? Then you're stable over the years and there's nothing going on, because every year, even with the low interest rates of today, still comes more inside than out, because the returns are still high. The Secretary of State's story can't be sold to people who think soberly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u292	Mr De Graaf, the rush is due to the fact that interruptions must be really short. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u293	I have explained why I think it is so important that we should assume an independent rate of calculation and that we should not allow ourselves as a politician to touch that rate of calculation, precisely because it is very important for all generations that there is a pension, just for everyone. And we help the elderly, too, because if you imagine there would be discounts, they don't come "pats boom!', But then they can be spread over ten years. That's another thing you need to be honest about here. There really is a balance in the system at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u294	The increase in the AOW age was not only sold by the Secretary of State to her constituency on the basis of false assumptions, namely that we would now have huge shortages in the labour market, but the accelerated increase is also very unfair to the less educated. This increase in the AOW age is linked to the average life expectancy and that is where it comes in: averages do not exist. On average, the lower educated live six to seven years shorter and 16 to 17 years shorter in health than the higher educated. Is the Secretary of State prepared to release the link to average life expectancy? Is it prepared to take this into account and ensure that everyone can enjoy their old age, including those with lower education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u295	It is not for nothing that we have brought forward the bridging arrangement. A lot of people take advantage of that. We have agreed that we will set up the AOW pensionable age on the basis of life expectancy, because the average Dutch citizen is getting older. That's why the bridging arrangement was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u296	This bridging arrangement is very inadequate, but this whole system is going on. The link between average life expectancy and the whole group is wrong. That problem is only getting worse and the gap is getting bigger and bigger. The Secretary of State will have to come up with new measures every time, because the starting point is wrong. Why does she choose to punish the lower educated in this way? Is she prepared to look at a new arrangement, where you not only look at averages and the starting point that people can and want to work longer, because there is nothing wrong with that, but also with the people who are left behind, so that we do not create an even bigger gap?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u297	That is why it was so important that when the social agreement was concluded the percentage was raised to 200% of the statutory minimum wage for single people and 300% of the statutory minimum wage for married persons. That way, of course, you've captured a few things. That was a very important point in the bridging regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u298	I would like to comment on my question about the AOW for people with heavy professions. A written reply was received. I proposed that a regulation be introduced for the specific group of people who have not been able to prepare for the AOW age increase and who have therefore not been able to work towards sustainable employability. My suggestion was to look at the RVU levy, to see if it might offer a solution. Would the Secretary of State still want to reflect a little more on that than she did in the written reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u299	I don't immediately see the RVU charge as the panacea. That is why I have just said that I want to give the social partners a major role in ensuring that the social partners always look at sustainable employability by sector. What does that mean at the end of the ride for people working with us? The appeal should really be with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u300	With regard to the sustainable employability of people who are now, for example, 40 years old, I agree with the Secretary of State. But if you're 55 years old now, you couldn't have known the AOW increase was coming. Therefore, you could not focus on sustainable employability. As we said in the decision on the increase in the AOW age, we need to settle something for people with heavy professions. Surely it should be possible to see if we can find a solution for that particular group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u301	I understand the thinking about sustainable employability in the context of heavy-duty professions. However, we have just had an exchange of views with Mr Heerma and with a number of other people who were at the interrupting microphone about the fact that the bridging point towards the increase in the AOW-right age is still a matter of attention. We have a bridging arrangement, but it was not for nothing that we were asked to look at the frameworks and the nature of that arrangement again. I think that is very worthwhile. But sustainable employability and the question of which profession is heavy or extra heavy, I really think it is something for the social partners. Let me be very clear about that. In 2009 I was also Secretary of State, and then we spoke for the first time about increasing the age of AOW. At the time we tried to label the phenomenon "heavy profession." That's really hard. It really belongs on the collective bargaining table with social partners. So I'd like to peel that layer off. I've already promised to look at the nature of the OBR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u302	I would like to know whether the Minister and the Secretary of State would like to respond to the amendments tabled before dinner break. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Isn't that the Secretary of State? Whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u303	In terms of logistics, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u304	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u305	Mr. Chairman. There is an amendment tabled by Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Kerstens to part No. 17. The aim is to help unemployed and job-seekers across the border with Germany and Belgium to get to work. We leave that amendment to the opinion of the Chamber. The amendment in part No. We would also like to leave 20 on matches to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u306	That's fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u307	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 18 members of the Van 't Wout and Kerstens about the educational vouchers. I welcome the high demand for training vouchers. I am also glad that the Chamber sees this as a success. Training is very important for obtaining or maintaining a job now and in the future. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u308	I note that a lot of amendments are covered because of the release of sector planning resources. We have not been able to get that out of the budget, but apparently that is the case. That advantage has coalition parties. I would appreciate it if the Minister would send the updated table with the cash flow of the sector plans to the Chamber. Apparently there is a new release, which is now being deployed in a number of places. I'm just trying to keep track of what happened to that original $600 million. If, after this debate, we can have another modified table, I would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u309	Sure. This was evident in the letter I sent to the Chamber yesterday or the day before yesterday. I apologise for that, because I know that the Chamber was full of letters and pieces to prepare the budget. I will also produce the table that Mr Van Weyenberg is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u310	The fact that there are still resources available for amendments is not something you, as an opposition party, get out of at once. It is fine, by the way, because I think it is beautiful amendments. That is perfectly clear and I await that note with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u311	Then I come to the amendment to item No. 19 members Tanamal, Schut-Welken and Van Weyenberg. Given the serious health damage that can result from excessive exposure to dangerous substances, I would like to launch a programme to tackle occupational diseases caused by dangerous substances. With this contribution it is possible to start preparatory activities in 2017. I shall therefore leave the amendment to the House's discretion. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 21 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Karabulut on the inspection. In the current state of affairs, the inspection can visit 200 companies every year. These visits show that many companies do not yet have the policy in order, often not out of unwillingness but out of incompetence and embarrassment on the subject. An effective approach to labour market discrimination requires more focus on information, which also enables us to reach more companies preventively than with the inspection visits themselves, combined with more risk selection inspections. An additional commitment of two times half a million over the next two years could give an extra boost to this. I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u312	I find it so chic to mention Mr Vermeij of the Labour Party. She has thought with us about the coverage, which means that there is now an amended amendment which I think I can thank the Minister for the opinion "Great support in the Chamber," I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u313	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u314	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u315	With Mr Van Weyenberg's last interruption... No, I see Mrs Karabulut standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u316	Here I am again; this round for the last time. Yesterday I gave six or seven pages of questions to the rulers, asked by all kinds of people in the country. I would like to see an answer to that. Is that still possible? Did you forget that? Is it gonna be later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u317	You may also return to it later, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u318	We should come back to that later. We used the night to answer the direct parliamentary questions, but we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u319	Okay, the Minister will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u320	It would be very nice if you could write that in writing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u321	My apologies, Mr. Chairman, I had to leave for a moment. I've asked the Secretary of State to reflect on how long a human being can work. Shouldn't a 45-year period be set? The question may also be answered in the second term, but I asked the question explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u322	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u323	I was just saying in my speech that we looked back in 2009 at how to deal with the increase in the AOW age. One of the beams was: couldn't you label how long people have worked and let people go with AOW on that basis? When it turned out that we never kept that in our country. That's one. Two. When did you work for a year? That's so hard to label, that's actually just unbelievable. Think of a six-month sabbatical and all that. In short, it's incredibly complicated. So, unfortunately, this beamer can't fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u324	Thank you. With the last interruption there have so far been 100 interruptions in the first term from the Chamber and in the first term from the Government. Besides, they were tall. Those who are going to complain that there was no room for a debate are going to be... no, I'm not saying what I'm going to do. I suggest we suspend until 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u325	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of the cost sharing standard in the AOW has been postponed until 1 January 2019;]] [[calls on the Government to remove definitively the introduction of the cost sharing standard in the AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cost sharing standard may lead to serious financial difficulties for people with benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the cost sharing standard for all target groups for 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u326	People who take care of each other should not be fined but supported. I come now with a proposal to create 25,000 really paid jobs for next year. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide structuralally EUR 254 million from the Social Domain Integration Scheme for municipalities for new jobs for long-term welfare recipients, provided that the remuneration is based on 110% of the minimum wage or above, and that the relevant jobs are achieved within the municipal organisation or organisations with which the municipality concerned has a grant relationship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u327	We also discussed it in the debate: the Secretary of State did not do much good. That's what it turns out to be. Thanks to the accelerated increase in the AOW age, a lot of people have an income problem. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the AOW bridging scheme is not a solution for some of the people and that this can still lead to serious financial problems for people with an AOW hole;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the bridging scheme so that people who were not working before they were 65 and who do not receive benefits up to the age of AOW receive benefits at the level of the AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u328	Yesterday we saw our veterans, who are also in great trouble because of an AOW-hole. A motion from Mr Van Dijk and the CDA will be put to the vote tomorrow. I assume that all colleagues will vote in favour of this, as will the motions I have just tabled. We discussed in the debate all the misery and uncertainty in the labour market that so-called free movement entails. I call the truck drivers who have to stay in a parking lot on weekends, with all the distressing things they do. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many truck drivers spend their weekends in their trucks in public parking spaces;]] [[Whereas the "taking advantage of a normal weekly rest period in the vehicle of 45 hours or more" constitutes a fine of €1,500;]] [[calls on the Government to actively maintain the rules on the prohibition of weekend rest in the truck and to inform the House of Representatives of the results;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ulenbelt, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Kerstens, Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Voortman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u329	I said outside the microphone, you don't get that often.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u330	What isn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u331	So many co-signators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u332	Oh, okay. Yeah, it's got to be the first time, right? Thank you very much, Mr Van Weyenberg. Do it more often! My next motion concerns freedom of movement and prevention of exploitation and repression. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is in consultation with other European countries to take measures to combat the displacement and exploitation of migrant workers;]] [[believes that the problems are so great that immediate action is needed;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of the national measures which the Netherlands can take before the elections and to send these proposals to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u333	Of course, I also tabled this motion together with my colleague Mr Ulenbelt, who has been working day and night for ten years to prevent exploitation and repression. What the Minister now has to do is to deliver on his words that workers' freedom must stop now. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the abolition of employment permits for Central and Eastern European workers results in exploitation, underpayment and displacement;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce employment permits for workers from Central and Eastern European countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u334	This brings us almost to the end of four years of Rutte/Asscher cabinet. What did those four years get us? Those four years have brought us more inequality. Not fewer children in poverty, but more. Not less working arms, but more. Not less top salaries, but more. Not less millionaires, but more. Not a radical break with neoliberalism, but embrace it. I find it shocking that the Deputy Prime Minister, who says he stands in front of everything else, namely fair sharing, does not distance himself from this socio-economic policy. What does that say about the vice prime minister, who said last weekend about the prime minister being "PVV light"? Doesn't that make this vice prime minister a VVD light? We see something similar in dealing with and preventing the exploitation of workers by unfair competition, by so-called free movement. The vice prime minister has a nice story, fantastic. He uses the right words and has all good intentions. But these are all intentions for after 15 March. What has the Deputy Prime Minister done in the last four years? I have to think about the goalie who, after passing ten more goals, says in the locker room: but the next game we're going to be champion, you know! Sure, keep dreaming, Minister. The Eurocrats win and the workers lose, also with this minister. So what he says is nothing wrong, but with what he does everything. I had my former colleague and highly esteemed comrade Remi Poppe with me in the room and I told him what the minister had done and said and then left behind. He said, "Well, Sadet, that's what I call flat populism." That's exactly the problem. We have talked about a huge gap and that gap is only growing. The biggest gap is perhaps still between the words of this Deputy Prime Minister and his actions. It's all beautiful in words, but he doesn't deliver in deeds. When we talk about a moral appeal to people, about living together and preventing the gap from widening, and when we call on people, people must also be able to call on us. Then you shouldn't just say that you're going to do something, then you shouldn't just say that you're going to prevent exploitation, then you shouldn't just say that you're going to deal with free movement so that workers are properly rewarded, so that exploitation stops and the repression stops; then you should do it. I would therefore like to conclude with Bertolt Brecht, who said: first comes the eating, then the morale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u335	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers we first received in writing and then in the first period. I would also like to thank all the officials who have probably had to give up all night. We have looked back and looked forward to this debate. We looked at where we were four years and a year ago. We have also looked at where we stand and where we are going. Where we are going, perhaps we will never all agree, but I do think that, in response to what the SP has just said, I say that you can say what you want and that you can also be honest about what you can achieve at the moment. When I look at that second, there is still a proud representative of the VVD here, reminiscent of where this country stood four years ago. It is not just about the distant future, because we are talking about the Social Affairs budget 2017. That's the largest budget in the Empire. That's not nothing. We have tabled a number of amendments. I welcome the positive response of the cabinet to the amendments on training vouchers and frontier work. I would also like to say that Mr Nijkerken, in particular, has been very active on that last dossier, as has everything we have done around the scout in recent years, but also these days. I now have two motions to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be a shortage of manpower in the engineering and craft sectors in the coming years;]] [[Whereas this demand offers an opportunity for 50-plussers;]] [[Whereas the technical and craft industries themselves have come up with a plan for an Academy of Crafts for 50+;]] [[Whereas the Prospective Plan for 50+ includes the possibility for innovative projects aimed at latent employment for 50+;]] [[calls on the Government to support the initiative of the Craft Academy from the space provided in the Perspective Plan for 50+]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by the members of the Van 't Wout and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u336	Now I'm filing my second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the possibility of a good match between employee and employer is improved if there is a well-stocked, unambiguous and easily accessible central system with all customer profiles and this is accessible to employers;]] [[Whereas the application of UWV candidate scout has been developed and put into operation for this purpose but municipalities and labour market regions are reluctant to introduce their customer profiles into the candidate scout;]] [[invites the government, the application candidate explorer as developed by the UWV and released in production for use by municipalities and labour market regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the members of the Wout and Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u337	As in the first term, I would ask you to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u338	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azmani, who speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u339	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking the two directors for their answers, but above all also the officials of SZW, who, of course, were late in answering the many questions that were asked yesterday. So my thanks for that, too. When I look back on yesterday, I think there were two elements that jumped out. The first element was the interruption of my fellow spokesperson Bas van 't Wout during Mr De Graaf's speech on behalf of the PVV. He asked what, according to the PVV, looking at a budget of 80 billion, should be adjusted. Things aren't right, but how? That's what I miss at the PVV again today. I was also surprised by Mr Van Meenen's plea and interruption towards Mrs Schouten about the values we share, and also today at his interruption to the Minister. I found something from 2014 from the Ministry of Social Affairs about the core values of our society. I will give that to Mr Van Meenen later. Why do I call that? When we talk about newcomers, I think it is important that we, as a host society, stand for our core values. If we are not clear to newcomers about the society in which they end up, it is also not clear to migrants what their contribution should be and what this means to them. We have made mistakes in the past, with integration policies aimed at preserving our own culture and identity that we have had a long period of time. That is why we must stand very strongly for what makes this country so unique and beautiful, for the freedoms and responsibilities that we have, as well as for our solidarity with each other. I myself think that is well discussed in the core document on the Dutch values that I have just spoken about. I understand that not everyone experiences a tradition as much as anyone else, but a tradition is something other than a value or a standard. The VVD thinks we should be clear about newcomers. When one does not want to integrate and participate, this cannot be without consequences. In my initial contribution, I have already indicated to the Minister that there may be more possibilities than simply withdrawing the right of residence at a time when it is legally impossible to draw any real consequences. Those who turn their backs on the beautiful society we have in the Netherlands also deserve to see the backs of this society turned towards them. For example, you can draw consequences for benefits and benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u340	It is very good in itself that we are having this debate together. This also makes it clear to me what is meant by 'core values'. I'm sure we can find each other in that. My concern is that in the VVD programme, for example, I have mentioned several times that Dutch teachers are supposed to actively convey the traditions of this country, in addition to the values. I have asked Mr Duisenberg before in an education debate and ask Mr Azmani: what traditions should teachers in the Netherlands actively teach every pupil? What traditions could that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u341	They could, for example, consider 4 May, but also the liberation on 5 May. That is a tradition that we uphold in this country. Or what does it mean the moment you celebrate King's Day together? I really don't expect everyone to be busy with the free market, but it's useful that people, especially newcomers, have a bit of experience and understanding for what that means. For example, there are many traditions, such as the Sara or the Abraham when someone becomes 50 years old. It is not wrong to give children, but also newcomers, a special meaning to be given to them. I think those are our traditions we're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u342	Then I can conclude that according to the VVD the 5 May celebration is a tradition in the Netherlands, just like the Sara and the Abraham. That's all tradition. So you could have a different tradition for that. That is really insufferable! Mr Azmani simply mentions a national holiday here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u343	Of course that's a national holiday...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u344	So that's not tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u345	Yes, but not everyone gets off during the national holiday on May 5. This was also the case in our party when we discussed our electoral programme. I am proud that the majority of the members of the VVD have chosen that 5 May should be free for everyone every year. That's what we stand for. With all due respect, I am afraid that Mr Van Meenen has such cultural relativism, whereas we have much more to cherish and promote what we have, precisely in the interests of integration and acceptance of newcomers. We must show what we are so good and so big at. That also means that you discuss the traditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u346	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u347	I come to the radicalisation, which we have also discussed with the Minister. I asked a question about the recent threat picture. I found the written answer to that somewhat lean. Perhaps the Minister is prepared to comment on this in his second term. The latest threat picture shows that it concerns hundreds of followers of jihadist movements, and several thousand sympathizers. Those numbers scared me. When it comes to preventing radicalisation, I would ask the Minister whether, in his view, enough is being done at the moment not to increase those numbers. I also talked about resilience in society. It's not just politics, it's 17 million Dutch people to keep that Dutch society strong. I have said that sometimes we have to be careful with translations. Minority representatives are not always fully representative. How are you supposed to act as a majority? I have given a personal example of what it will do to you if it is filled out for you what would be best for you. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister. Is that how he understood it? We're not supposed to fill it out very badly for people. Once again, minorities are sometimes not represented by certain representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u348	Mr Azmani spoke about radicalisation, the threat and the threat of terrorism, which is, of course, serious. But this minister is mainly about the preventive side of radicalisation. How do we prevent the radicals of tomorrow? How does Mr Azmani feel about us not being able to get behind the front door with the families of jihadists, the little brothers and sisters so far? Should we not intervene there? Would Mr Azmani support a motion to do so? We must not wait until the brothers and sisters of jihadists have become jihadists themselves and only then come into action. We must ask the Minister to make early interventions with the brothers and sisters of a pedagogical nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u349	I'm always willing to think about that. In Amsterdam, we have the Top 600 approach. That does not mean radicalisation, but it does mean families of which one or two members are criminals. So you look at what that means in the family and for the children. I would like to think with Mr Marcouch about a way of doing something like this with radicalisation. Again, I was shocked by the numbers in the last report: hundreds of supporters and thousands of sympathizers here in the Netherlands. Because people no longer travel, there is a translation of the risks into Dutch society. When we talk about prevention, about preventing rising numbers, I wonder whether we are currently performing optimally. That's the question I'm going to put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u350	Thank you for this constructive response. I know that Mr Azmani is convinced that you should always be at the front, for example in the case of migration. This also applies, of course, to the prevention of extremism and radicalism of tomorrow. I welcome the constructive response and I hope that the Minister will respond positively to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u351	Please continue, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u352	I actually came to a conclusion, Mr President. I would once again like to thank both directors, as well as the officials who have worked hard for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u353	Thank you. Mr Pieter Heerma has the floor. He speaks for the CDA. Before I forget: Mrs Voortman has the motion by Mrs Karabulut in part No. 27 co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u354	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for the first-term response and indeed for all the officials who worked hard last night for the written reply. It is always very helpful for the Chamber in the interruptions towards the rulers in the first term. That is why we have been able to limit it to only a hundred interruptions in the first period, as I say to the President. Looking back at these two days' debate on the Social Affairs budget, I still have the impression of a minister who, on the one hand, understandably defended his policies in recent years and, on the other hand, recognised the great challenges facing us in the field of the labour market in the coming years. I repeat, however, that I regret the fact that a number of dossiers have remained in place in recent years. These issues, the division of the labour market, the gap between fixed and flex and the discussions on pay-as-you-go andzzp, have been pushed forward because the taboos in the coalition have been too leading. Those files will certainly have to come back in the coming years. The Minister indicated that he expected the ESC opinion in the first quarter of 2017, spring. I hope that touches on the opinion I have written together with Mr Schouten that the ESC and the polder are able to give political guidance. I would like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State for her commitment to the BIZ platforms. I hope that in the second period it will be able to indicate the time at which it will be able to reconnect and, in particular, to review the framework of the bridging regime. I assume that, in accordance with the written reply, we will be able to get some feedback on this before 1 March. Thank you for that! I had prepared motions for both subjects, but I will not table them now in view of these commitments. The Minister referred in the first term to the second deadline for answering my questions on enforcement and collective bargaining police and underpayment and collective agreement avoidance with Eastern European employees. I wonder if he'll go into that and see if he thinks it's possible to come up with such a list. If so, can it be done in the foreseeable future? I have heard that before the end of the year we will have a reaction to the Van Dam motion. I accept that, but that is the last time, because it has been postponed so many times now, even though it is very much needed, given all the discussions in the Chamber. On a number of points that I have raised in the first term, I would like to endorse motions with colleagues. Two of these motions have now been tabled. One is about a very long ongoing discussion in the Chamber about abuses at truck stops. In my opinion, the SP was the first party to draw attention to this very strongly. Over time, more and more spokesmen have seen with their own eyes what is happening there, and I therefore very much appreciate the fact that this motion for a resolution by the SP has been signed so broadly. This also applies to the motion that I tabled together with the colleague of the VVD in respect of item No. 30 on the craft academy. There will be motions from GroenLinks and the Christian Union on poverty and multi-annual contracts. Finally, I would like to table one motion on a long debate on the ultimate sanction on knowingly and knowingly not to settle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas failure to comply with the obligation to enter may result in a fine;]] [[noting that refusing to enter citizens in practice does not lead to the loss of the right of residence;]] [[Considering that, knowingly and knowingly refusing to enter citizens, the loss of right of residence as a stick behind the door is necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that obstacles in national and international legislation to impose this sanction are removed and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u355	Mr. Chairman. It has been mentioned more often in recent days: employment is rising faster than in the last ten years. Unemployment is falling faster and faster. There are more jobs than ever in the Netherlands; the 10 million have now been identified. For the first time since 2009, more permanent jobs are added: 48,000 new permanent jobs in the last quarter alone. There are more young people at work than in the last seven years. Fortunately, more and more older jobseekers also find a job. This means that after four years of government policy with the PvdA we can say in the cabinet that we are well on our way to more work. But it must also be good work. Whoever you are, whatever you do and wherever you come from, we want good work for everyone, in a labour market where people are not seen as a cost, but as the biggest capital: a decent labour market. In recent years, we have taken a number of important steps in this respect. These steps sometimes mean a real change of culture and therefore do not go on their own. For example, clients can no longer look the other way, but are themselves responsible for abuses. Corporate social responsibility goes beyond giving Max Havelaar coffee and using recycled paper, but also looks at giving opportunities to people with disabilities. More and more flex is not a natural phenomenon but a choice, a choice that can be different and that has to be different. We have much to do in this area in the years to come. So we continue to fight for a decent labour market. The race to the bottom, where more and more people go head-under, has to stop. Together with Mr Van 't Wout, I have tabled an amendment to increase the amount of money needed to better reflect the qualities of people with a distance from the labour market, thereby greatly increasing their job opportunities. It is also about making better use of the employment opportunities that lie just across the border for them, including for them. In addition, together with the coalition partner, we want to put aside additional money by means of an amendment to encourage cross-border work and to retrain jobseekers to occupations for which vacancies are available. For the latter we have already spent money together and it turns out to work very well, especially for vmbos and mbos, people who work with their hands and of course use their heads. I welcome the opinions of the rulers on these amendments. A final amendment was tabled just after my first deadline, also co-signed by Mr Van 't Wout. This relates to the use of a pilot of people who themselves have a great distance from the labour market. They can encourage and enthuse others, especially employers, to give people who are remote from the labour market a real chance, in business and in government, as colleagues between colleagues. I assume and hope that that amendment will also be left to the discretion of the Chamber. I would like to thank both directors for the commitments they have made. The Minister is going to remove the job application requirement for all job seekers in the last year before their retirement age and thus put an end to the still crazy distinction "kafkaesk" Mr Van Weyenberg has called it "between people who would no longer have to apply in that last year and people who do. I am also pleased with the Minister's commitment that the next major occupational disease campaign launched by his ministry will be dedicated to occupational diseases. I am glad that extra money may also be available to give that a good start. My colleague Tanamal has tabled an amendment along with a number of other parties. This is necessary when it comes to occupational diseases. On this subject, I also heard the Minister correctly when he said that he has just sent a number of scouts into the field to see what the sector, from companies, is capable of with regard to the terrible painter's disease. Those scouts will report back to the minister. He will then share with the Chamber his preliminary conclusions on the possibilities and opportunities. The Minister also reports to the Chamber on the fate of the agreement of the temporary agency industry with the tax authorities. These are reasons that make Dutch workers curiously more expensive, which we should not want. There is also an evaluation on the so-called expat scheme. I still have a few motions. The first, co-signed by Mr Van 't Wout, deals with the structural expansion of the inspection SZW, which I asked for earlier. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the social agreement has agreed to provide temporary additional capacity to the SZW Inspection to address bogus structures and to support social partners in collective bargaining enforcement;]] [[noting that this temporary additional capacity can be maintained until 2018 thanks to the Kerstens/Van Weyenberg motion adopted last year;]] [[Whereas the role of the SZW Inspection in dealing with bogus structures and the support of social partners in the monitoring of collective agreement compliance is still indispensable;]] [[Whereas it is important to clarify rapidly the future resources and tasks available;]] [[calls on the Government to structure the extension of the SZW inspection agreed under the social agreement and to finance the amount of EUR 3.4 million required for this from 2019 from the policy budget for enforcement (Article 98),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Kerstens and Mr. Van 't Wout. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u356	I'm happy when temporary capacity becomes structural. I will support that; we have done so in the past. If we vote on the budget tomorrow, Mr Kerstens will also have the opportunity to increase the number of inspectors considerably from next year on. There is an amendment tabled by D66 to make additional 9 million available for additional inspectors against labour market fraud. I like the motion very much, but can I count on the support of Mr Kerstens to increase this capacity with the euros?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u357	I will discuss this with my group. I would just like to point out that I attach an extremely important role to the Labour Inspectorate when it comes to preventing and detecting abuses. I have already said that an efficient approach to abuses must be the end of effective enforcement and not the closing point. Hence the motion I tabled in 2012 for an extension of the Labour Inspectorate. Hence the motion that I tabled with Mr Van Weyenberg last year to make the then temporary enlargement a little longer. That is why I have today tabled a motion with Mr Van 't Wout in order to make this temporary enlargement structural. If Mr Van Weyenberg wants something on top of that, I want to look at it. The Minister wanted to start thinking in spring about the possibility of making these additional labour inspectors structural. I have indicated that we should certainly look at the Labour Inspectorate in the spring, but with the glasses focused on the question of what additional should and can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u358	Those moves are moving in the right direction. That amendment was in Mr Spekman's tradition. During each budget debate, he tabled an amendment as Social Affairs spokesperson to increase the budget for the inspection. This was supported by the PvdA and covered by fines. Normally, this is a little less acceptable coverage in this house than the one from which we cover our amendment. Mr. Kerstens is going to watch and I am hopeful. I think we agree on the importance of this. We have a nice Law approach fakes constructions, but without enough inspectors it will not work in practice anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u359	The first motion I tabled was based on everything that College Spekman had done before. The idea was indeed that these labour inspectors could earn themselves back. With that we ran into a concrete wall. I am glad that the Minister then took it up and took it into account in the agreements he made four months later in the social agreement with the trade unions and employers. I will also be very pleased if we now manage to keep that extension of then up to eternity, so to speak. My next motion, which I announced in the first term, was signed by my colleague Cegerek. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there has been a European Circular Economy Package since December 2015 and also a state-wide circular economy programme since September 2016;]] [[Whereas several studies have shown that the transition to a circular economy can save Dutch business more than EUR 7 billion and create between 50,000 and 80,000 jobs;]] [[Whereas the opinion of the Economic and Social Council shows that the circular economy also offers opportunities for people who are remote from the labour market and for regional employment;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the opportunities for people who are remote from the labour market and for regional employment are fully exploited within the State-wide circular economy programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Cegerek. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u360	I'm coming to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the SZW Inspection concluded in 2015 that a firmer approach by municipalities to counter the displacement of regular work by people working while maintaining benefits is possible and necessary;]] [[Whereas there are various ways of shaping this firmer approach, such as by setting up an advisory board to assess displacement or by assigning this role to social partners, the works council of the company where the beneficiaries are working or the client council;]] [[calls on the Government to require municipalities to check for displacement in the deployment of beneficiaries of benefits who continue to receive benefits in the context of reintegration, social procurement or consideration, allowing municipalities themselves to choose an appropriate interpretation (e.g. in one of the above mentioned ways),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u361	My last two motions have been co-signed by my colleague Yücel. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the 100 million children in structural poverty should now actually end up with these children;]] [[Whereas schools, social (help) organisations and (sport) associations often cannot find their way to the municipality if they are confronted with a child in poverty;]] [[calls on the government, in the context of "Every child participates" in cooperation with the municipalities, to launch a public campaign aimed at:]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the report "An Unloved Problem" reveals that there is a need for greater coordination from the Empire with regard to the handling of debts by government agencies, such as the Tax Administration, the National Health Institute, DUO and the CJIB;]] [[considers that a social collection can lead to reduced debt and social exclusion;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out, before 1 July, the follow-up study of the report "An Unloved Problem" with specific attention to: (a) an interdepartmental approach to collection activities; (b) a social collection that takes into account the human dimension; and (c) the consequences of the different preferential positions of government organisations;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Yücel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-36]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Yücel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u362	Today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and also on 15 March, these are important choices when it comes to working. For more work and for decent work. Do you opt for more uncertainty, for abolishing the right to resign, breaking collective agreements and turning the clock back a hundred years to the time when everyone had to figure it out for themselves? Or do you choose more security, a decent wage and a steady job? The Labour Party, so much to be clear, chooses the latter, chooses to tackle the fluctuating flexibility in the labour market and chooses to stop the race to the bottom in the labour market, with more and more people going under.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u363	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister, and also the Secretary of State, although not on my subjects, for answering the questions and getting involved in these important issues. I brought in yesterday that if we want to connect, want civilisation and fight off division, an offensive is necessary. That means, I said yesterday, that the Minister must sow and invest widely, and must resist poison, storm and hail, in order to ultimately inspire a generous sower to a beautiful life in a prosperous Netherlands. Because that is what Holland is: a beautiful country, where we can have a good life. Unfortunately, not everyone has been given that. That is why the role of the government is so crucial that all participants can participate and contribute to it. To that end, I have two motions. Firstly, because of the persistence and the problem of discrimination in the labour market. The Minister often talks about employers. Then it's about companies out there, but the government is one of the biggest employers where it's still not going well. She does her best but also has the responsibility to be an example in having a diverse workforce. The government must also be at the forefront of the fight against discrimination. Then anonymously applying is a horse drug. It touches that one principle, which we would rather not. I hate that, too. Actually, we wish your name didn't matter. Whether your name is Ahmed or Louis shouldn't matter, but reality is different. Then I think that the violation of a principle of discrimination is a greater violation than the violation that there is when we try to raise that awareness with this means of horses and, in addition to all the other points of contention, to combat discrimination in the labour market. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas discrimination in the labour market is persistent and unacceptable;]] [[Whereas the government benefits from a diverse workforce and has an exemplary role in the fight against discrimination;]] [[noting that applying anonymously from the Rijksmonitor shows that employees involved in the recruitment and selection process underestimate the role of unconscious prejudices in themselves;]] [[calls on the government to launch a large-scale anonymous application pilot in the government, monitor the results of this exercise and inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marcouch, Mr Karabulut, Mr Voortman, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Krol and Mr Monasch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u364	Yesterday and today it was very much about what binds us: values, core values, common values. Ultimately, it is about these values, that commonality, that we have one connected society together. It is too often about people who are new in the Netherlands, who we actively approach with activation and all kinds of programs to teach them the language, competences and so on. An important group is forgotten: a group of 50-plussers. For them, I would like specific attention from the cabinet. That's why I'm filing this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we want a society without division;]] [[noting that the government has a policy for 50-plussers;]] [[noting that in our society among the 50-plussers a specific population group of Dutch born in the Netherlands has gradually fallen behind;]] [[noting that this particular group is relatively often low-skilled, low-literate, long-term unemployed, unhealthy and unhappy, as described in the Social and Cultural Report 2014 of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau (SCP);]] [[believes that all Dutch people deserve opportunities to live well and contribute to our society;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a specific catch-up programme for this specific group of Dutch over 50s, with attention to education in reading and writing, vocational education and, if necessary, further training in social competences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marcouch, Mr Voortman, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Krol and Mr Monasch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u365	Thank you. I wish the Minister good luck for the rest of the week, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u366	By applying anonymously, Mr Marccouch has said that people born and raised here, such as Ahmed and Louis, can get a place in our services, in our ministries. But shouldn't those who hire these people be dealt with? Shouldn't the civil servants, who live on community funds, who deliberately and knowingly invite these people to a job interview be dealt with? At this time when the Labour Party has several ministers and secretaries of state, surely you cannot come forward with a proposal for an anonymous application?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u367	I agree with Mr Öztürk that if people, including employers, are willingly discriminated against, we must set up the Labour Inspectorate, the police and the judiciary there. I believe this Minister is doing the same. Apart from the minister, the state's attorney's office has to do the same. The D.A.'s even got the ability to do that without a report. I myself have personally supported victims in a number of cases, but we cannot stop doing so. I see the persistence. Too many young people just don't get to work. This means of horses, along with everything else we do, can help with this, including employers and recruiters who do this unconsciously. Research shows that it does not always happen knowingly and knowingly. It also happens very unconsciously sometimes. People select people who look like them. I think this is a useful means of breaking through, even if I would rather not use it. But I would rather we put this into practice and thereby help young people and make employers aware than do nothing and just stick to criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u368	It is also a step of more and more admitting, more and more admitting to people who knowingly do this and who do not want to accept that society is changing. It's only a few thousand people who hire employees. A few thousand! If you do not create, instead of the Social Stability Expertise Unit, which costs 2 million euros a year, an expertise unit that addresses officials who do not want to adapt to the new, changing society, you will continue to settle. You're saying no footage can be made of police officers in violation. You always give in to the acceptance of discrimination. Instead of fighting it, you admit it. When are you gonna stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u369	I don't see it that way. I notice that Mr Öztürk speaks very much out of distrust and suspicion. I am looking for connections and alliances with the government, with entrepreneurs, with employers and with all those young people who want to get to work. On the contrary, I want to use and use all the means to force a breakthrough and make a fist against discrimination in the labour market. The police are currently recruiting very active diversity, as Mr Öztürk pointed out. That's what very specific people are attracted to. That's good. I would also like the government to have a much more active policy on diversity. On that point, a motion from me and Mr Van Miltenburg has been adopted. But that doesn't change the fact that there's more you can do and you can do even better. You should not neglect a horse's tool such as anonymous application when researchers say that it has an effect, that it helps raise awareness and that it causes candidates to enter a company or public service. I'm going for that breakthrough. I'd rather look at what I can do for such an applicant than declare my own ego and principles and so on sacred. The point is that we are helping young people and that we are fighting discrimination in the labour market on the basis of self-confidence and self-confidence, not from suspicion and mistrust, and certainly not from a division, because then we will not get there. Let's just do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u370	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, I still have enough time to make four motions, among other things. Fortunately, this is the last budget of this cabinet. The whole of the Netherlands will have to do with the consequences for another year. Over the last four years, the PVV has made enough proposals to see how we can prevent the misery that we now have in the area of asylum and which even sinks into crime in the field of assistance. Unfortunately, all these measures are not embraced. It was a bit of a budget today. Yesterday we had the time, today it has to be in fast-track. We'll see what time it's gonna be. It was also a table night for the Minister and the Secretary of State yesterday. It wasn't a nice table night, because it was a bit of a tough report anyway. I understand that Mr Heerma gave Minister Asscher another 6 on the radio. A six, so he's gone to the next cabinet. This is difficult for Mr Heerma's ambitions, because the CDA has chosen Minister Asscher as the new Minister for Social Affairs. If you give me a C, you move on to the next period. Perhaps Mr Heerma shot it in his own foot. We'll see, but that was of course a bit of humor. Excuse me. I can hear Mr Heerma giving me a 5. Have we achieved anything? We have talked about everything: about AOW and pensions, about things that have gone wrong. As I've just concluded, we're going to have to do it for a while. I have three motions on social affairs and one on integration. Underneath it is a motion that we have tabled before. Yet I am going to do it again, because it is the ancients of days who are affected by their purchasing power. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Central Bank has set interest rates at zero;]] [[noting that due to low interest rates pensions cannot be indexed and may need to be reduced;]] [[Considering that the low interest rate is very favourable to the Treasury, due to the fact that the interest charges on the sovereign debt will fall €1.5 billion lower in 2017 than last year;]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance and hence the Cabinet benefit from the low interest rate, while pensioners are severely downgraded;]] [[Calls on the Government to use the interest rate counter to temporarily increase the AOW to compensate for the non-indexation and possibly shortening of pension benefits in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas pension funds still receive more money every year than is paid;]] [[noting that this continues to increase reserves;]] [[Considers that for 2.1 million people there is a risk of a reduction in pension benefits due to the rigid calculation system used;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no pension fund receives a reduction in pension benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Graaf and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-40]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u371	And then my third motion; I'm just gonna try it again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make pension funds less dependent on European interest rate policy by bringing the calculation rate back to the old system before 2007,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u372	Many colleagues came out of books yesterday and today with quotes. They're all beautiful. Reading books is also a hobby of mine, because reading books makes you smart. I'll take a quote this time, too, to warn the West. It may be a bit difficult to follow in Russian, but in Dutch it reads as follows: "In the West, they don't know the truth until it's no longer necessary." That used to be the trickbox of communism towards the West, but with me this remark refers to Islamization. That is why I have tabled the next motion, which I announced yesterday as a piece of policy needed to prepare, to make the Netherlands less Islamic. I see that Mr Van Weyenberg is still coming to his senses. Sorry, it wasn't Flemish. It was Russian. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the purpose of the Muslim Brotherhood is to replace secular democratic governments with an Islamic caliphate under the sharia;]] [[Whereas the Muslim Brotherhood is linked to terrorist organisations such as Hamas, Al-Qaeda and Al-Nusra;]] [[whereas the Muslim Brotherhood is also a direct threat to our security;]] [[whereas the Muslim Brotherhood is openly active in some countries, but it is also infiltrated in political parties, organisations and mosques, as well as in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the US is preparing legislation to ban the Muslim Brotherhood and this organisation is already banned in several countries;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a thorough investigation into the network, interests and influences of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u373	You can see this motion along the lines of the investigations that have been carried out into salafistic organizations in the Netherlands. Why should you only deal with Salafism when the brothers of the Salafists are often the same ones who can simply walk freely and do their destructive work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u374	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the directors for their answers, and I would certainly also like to thank all the staff of the Ministry and, by the way, of the implementing organisations, and let us not forget them for their support in their response. We know that even the words of the rulers are not written by leprechauns. I found yesterday that the words of this minister and this cabinet are more beautiful than the deeds. Today we saw another beautiful illustration of that. A number of amendments have been tabled by the coalition and I will wholeheartedly support them, which are covered by money left over from the job plans. In addition, two thirds of the money had not been spent during the crisis and now there is still more money left. My group is also critical of the Work and Security Act. I note that this almost applies to the entire Chamber. That law needs to be kicked after the next election. I note that six times more flex jobs have been added than permanent jobs and that 40% of the dissolution requests are rejected. And no, I say to the Minister, that's not because there are fewer requests to the judge. According to the canton judges, this is because of only one thing: the design of the Work and Security Act. It's in the evaluation. So that law is going to have to be kicked. For now, I have signed a motion from colleagues Voortman and Heerma to make those long-term contracts possible. In a new cabinet, we will really have to do something about narrowing the gap between fixed and flex. One question has not been answered. I asked the Minister if his ruling at Nu.nl on non-negotiability was a breaking point. I'm asking for another response to this. The Minister admitted quite honestly today, for that I commend him for the fact that a great deal has not been resolved and is on the formation table: from pensions to lifelong learning and from pay-as-you-go payments in the event of illness tozzp. I was pleased with the support I also received in the corridors with regard to having some kind of standard to make work pay more. I'm sure I'll come back to that in the future. Now I'm filing a motion to make sure we get more information on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in future relevant proposals, to explain the impact on unemployment and reintegration;]] [[calls on the government to re-integrate the unemployment trap for workers with a 120% statutory minimum wage income into the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u375	I welcomed the Minister's support for the amendments on the Long Alliance and the Labour Market Discrimination Unit. I tabled this amendment together with Mrs Karabulut. Unfortunately, the amendment on additional capacity for the Labour Inspectorate was not supported, but I will continue to try. I have a specific motion on the WW and the Kafkaesque rules. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with a WW benefit who have already found a job still have a job application obligation;]] [[Whereas this leads, in particular, to fruitless applications and additional bureaucracy;]] [[requests the Government to terminate the application obligation if there is evidence of a contract of employment starting within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u376	I feel supported by the election program of the VVD, for example. I think that's enough room to take this motion Chamberwide. On the subject of cancer and work, I asked the Minister whether he could examine the issue of no-risk policies or whether initiatives from the business network could be linked to this. I'd appreciate it if we could get another response to that. You can do that later. I have not yet had a response to my appeal regarding insurers, hence the next motion, hopefully abounding. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister, in the short term, to engage with insurers to speed up the provision of insurance against, for example, disability for ex-cancer patients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Schut-Welken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u377	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas newcomers in the Netherlands have an obligation to integrate;]] [[considers that the obligation to integrate should be accompanied by a public offer of integration education;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a high-quality public offer of integration education that is accessible to every newcomer at a low level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that integration and integration have been the subject of political debate for decades without a thorough examination of what policy really works;]] [[whereas parts of the Integration Act have been evaluated, but no comprehensive evaluation of the whole system has been carried out since 2013;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an early, thorough and full review of the Integration Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that integration should be seen as a mutual interest and a common task, rather than as a verb for the newcomer;]] [[Whereas the social importance of integration has been overlooked;]] [[calls on the government to consider integration as a shared responsibility of society and newcomer and to make this starting point of policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the difference in levels between a highly qualified pharmacist from Aleppo, an illiterate from Eritrea and an Iranian housewife is significant;]] [[noting that large diversity in integration classes does not improve the quality of the course;]] [[calls on the government to use a system of integration education, based on public policies based on scientific research and differentiated at level, so that citizens can be trained on a tailor-made basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-47]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-48]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-49]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u378	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for apologizing for his statements on special education. I think it's a great deal that he's done that so equestrianly. I think it is even better that he also says that he thinks there should be a quick solution to the problem with the invaders in particular education, that he has given the scout the opportunity to come up with solutions that may go a little further than the law or the collective bargaining table and that we can then have the debate on this. Thanks again. I'm filing four motions. The first motion concerns the issue in the Drechtsteden, where many jobs are now in danger of disappearing. I had asked questions about that, too. The Minister says that the companies themselves should start working on social plans first. However, if almost 2,000 jobs are in danger of disappearing, then you need to take a little more action, that is what we think. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the risk of 2,000 jobs disappearing in the Drechtsteden region, which will have a huge impact on the region;]] [[Whereas good experience has been gained with mobility centres, in which municipalities and the Empire work together to help people from work to work;]] [[calls on the government, together with the municipalities and social partners concerned, to adopt an employment approach and to set up a mobility centre in the region;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Vermeij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u379	We have also discussed in detail the functioning of the Work and Security Act, including the adverse effects that appear to be in it today. We propose in our election programme to improve this situation. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Work and Security Act should be further improved in order to reduce the difference between temporary and fixed contracts;]] [[Whereas the current temporary extension of a contract does not increase the security;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of giving employers the opportunity to offer a temporary contract three times, even if the two-year period has expired, but to require the temporary contract to last for a further six months per extension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u380	I have another point from the Minister, on the part of integration. We shall return to the implementation of the Segers/Zijlstra motion on undesirable foreign financing. We will indeed include the legal analysis requested by Mr Azmani. We'll come back to that. I'm filing two motions in the State Secretary's area. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a report by the churches in the Netherlands ("Poverty in the Netherlands") shows that many people in debt do not get through the bureaucracy to the government well;]] [[Whereas the same report shows that churches help a large group of poor people, who do not reach municipalities with their poverty policies or do not achieve enough;]] [[calls on the government, with municipalities, to examine how poverty policies can not reach certain groups and propose concrete improvements, with as much as possible working with a single debt liaison;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u381	I'm now filing my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a difference of opinion between Cedris, the VNG and the Secretary of State on the necessary resources for SW companies and sheltered work;]] [[points out that it is undesirable for SW companies' infrastructure to fall due to inadequate funding, as it will also be necessary to achieve sheltered work;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with Cedris and the VNG, to reach a solution to the Spring Note, taking into account both the actual realisation of SW outflow and the realised wage value in the new inflow,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u382	Finally, I would like to thank the rulers very much. We have not always been in agreement, but we have been able to do quite a few things with each other. We're entering an election period now. Mr De Graaf predicted that the Minister would move to another cabinet. I wouldn't risk that prophecy...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u383	Based on the report figure!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u384	Oh, the report figure. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the directors for their cooperation. The same applies to officials, who have always done a great deal of work behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u385	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the assistance should be a springboard, not a rule swamp;]] [[calls on the government to broaden the area of additional income in the experiments in the Participation Act, to remove the mandatory "intensification group" and to enable all municipalities to launch an experiment;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to increase the room for additional income in the Participation Act and to remove the mandatory consideration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas limiting the chain regime for a part of the workforce means that they lose their jobs more quickly and get out on the street;]] [[Whereas it is important to avoid widening the gap between disadvantaged and high-risk workers;]] [[calls on the Government to allow the conclusion of a second multi-annual contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-55]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u386	I shall also table two motions for resolutions on serious appeals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the age of AOW will increase further in the coming years;]] [[Whereas there are workers who have been working very hard since their early age, who have not been able to prepare themselves and will thus be physically "up" for the AOW age;]] [[Whereas the early retirement scheme (RGU) must pay a tax which makes early retirement virtually impossible in practice;]] [[considers that a solution should be found for workers in physically very heavy occupations who are currently over 55 years of age;]] [[Calls on the Government to abolish the RVU levy for workers over 55 years of age with a heavy occupation to allow early retirement from 60 years of age, starting with the top fifteen heavy-duty professions in the construction of the SZW inspection, provided that the sector employs sustainable employability of people in heavy-duty occupations;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to determine whether a solution needs to be found for more serious cases of urgency;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate annually whether there are more heavy professions with such urgency that the RVU levy should be abolished,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the age of AOW will increase further in the coming years;]] [[Whereas there are workers who have been engaged in a heavy occupation since a young age but who have not been able to prepare themselves and are therefore already physically up to the age of AOW;]] [[considers that a solution should be found for workers in physically very difficult professions who have worked since childhood;]] [[Whereas arrangements have been made in other countries of the European Union to avoid heavy professions;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to make a proposal on how to define heavy-duty professions, to examine what the Government can do to resolve the problem for people in heavy-duty professions and to inform the Court of Justice of this by 15 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-57]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u387	In the debate we talked about the unequal pay of the people from Eastern Europe who come to work here. If the Minister states that he thinks that the evasion of collective wage agreements through posting is undesirable, should the government take the lead in this and ensure that all those who do a job for the government, including through subcontractors, are always paid the collective wage of that sector? I do not quite understand what the problem is now simply to include this as a demand for tenders and to agree with the Minister for Housing and National Service. Isn't it possible to do that separately from the Procurement Act? A ministry or Rijkswaterstaat can simply put in the commission: pay everyone the collective wage or more. Can the Minister explain why this cannot be done by all the government's organizations, or is he prepared to return to this in a letter? In this way we can ensure that everyone who works for the government earns the wage agreed in the Netherlands. Finally, I would like to talk about the cleaners at the Foreign Office. They belong as well as the cleaners in other ministries. We have asked questions about this together with the Labour Party and the SP. On the basis of the answers, we shall consider whether we still have to come back to this and still have to ask for a ruling. I now have to thank the two directors and the official support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u388	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors and officials for answering our first-term questions. In my speech yesterday, I wanted to emphasise the following: pensioners, including those with only AOW, have not in any way shared a proportionate share in purchasing power development under this cabinet. They are the lockpoint for this cabinet year by year. That's not strong. That's not social. Even in 2017, pensioners are the gate closers again. The purchasing power gap is widening again. The people at home know that and the figures from the Central Planning Bureau are clear. I find the Minister's reaction to our purchasing power examples of AOWs and pensioners compared to employees and to the strongly growing purchasing power gap that this reflects quite astonishing. Much further than the soothing remark that the income policy of the cabinet did not cause the elderly to fail due to the ice, the Minister does not come. According to 50PLUS, only one conclusion fits here: this Labour Minister's Party and this cabinet simply do not take pensioners seriously. 50PLUS has also wanted to make it clear that, despite the recent improvement, older people still have a very difficult position in the labour market and are overrepresented in the WW and in the assistance. The new action plan for long-term unemployment is certainly profitable, but it will need to focus even more on personal guidance, generous education and competence development. There's profit to be made. We are pleased that the Minister is in principle in favour of leaving out the age of applications. Does the Minister wish to promote this as much as possible? The Minister asked if I could present examples of the UWV correspondent for Dutch residents living abroad. I will give him four examples of this through you, Madam President, with the request that this be resolved in consultation with the UWV. Surely these Dutch people should be able to receive the correspondence in Dutch? There's still a threat of pension reductions. It is unnecessary and unwise to allow this to continue. This applies both to workers in the construction phase and to pensioners in the benefit phase. It's just about granting spared deferred wages. It is good to recall that around 95% of the current total pension assets are attributable to workers aged 35 and over and to pensioners. Can these people also reap the benefits of their retirement? When it comes to the pension system debate, people at home have the right to know what important choices we are facing 98 days before the elections. People want to hear the whole story. The current pension system is not perfect, but it is very strong in its base and, unlike some large banks, has gone through the financial crisis brilliantly. In fact, it's come out much better in the end. We are also asking for more commitment from the cabinet for people who are dealing with a accumulation of costs and who we do not or do not fully see in the purchasing power picture. These are the people on the verge of poverty. The water is on the lips of many people. Do something for those people. Take their distress calls seriously. 50PLUS is clear: the AOW age has to go back to 65 years. This is not yet the case, but the Dutch are entitled to at least adequate information on their AOW age. To my surprise, the communication of the Social Insurance Bank is different from that of the government. For example, at the date of birth of Mr Van Weyenberg, the Social Insurance Bank indicates that it will reach its AOW age at 69 years and 6 months. The government website gives a blurry text. It says: You may get AOW from 67 years and 3 months, but it may also be later. I've got a printout of the screenshots here so you can check that what I'm saying is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u389	I think this is a valid point. I do not know whether Mr Krol realized that, but this is again on the website of the Social Insurance Bank at my request. It'll give you a better insight into it. I think that's a win. I very much agree with Mr Krol that it would be good if it were to be on the website of SZW as well. So you see, Mr President, at the end of a long debate, you know where to find each other from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u390	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u391	That's really front-page news that we found each other. So 50PLUS asks the Minister not only to stand up for my esteemed colleague but for everyone. Finally, I shall table five motions to encourage the cabinet and to support my own speech. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the policy of the Cabinet has not led to a sufficiently balanced and uniform purchasing power development for workers, those unable to work and those who have worked,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that pointless application is highly demotivating and psychologically burdensome and leads to high social costs;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals for a systematic periodic application assessment from the 60th year of the job seeker's life;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in many cases AOW holes can cause financial losses;]] [[Whereas existing AOW-holes are not yet sufficiently closed and that rapid increase in AOW-age increases existing AOW-holes and creates new AOW-holes;]] [[calls on the Government to fully review the AOW bridging scheme on adequacy and to make proposals for improvement before 15 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the social minimum must in principle be sufficient to ensure that the person concerned is able to live on an independent basis;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a thorough review of the social minimum and to report to the Court before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pension reductions are at risk, particularly as a result of artificially low market interest rates due to ECB policies and a financial review framework for pension funds that is disproportionately sensitive to these exceptional economic circumstances;]] [[Considers that, given the financial and capital situation of pension funds, there is no material need for pension reductions;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to avoid unnecessary reductions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-59]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-61]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-62]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u392	Mr. Chairman. DENK doesn't quickly support motions of mistrust. We have only supported one and we have never tabled a motion of censure. For DENK gives ministers and secretaries of state several opportunities. In my first term, I apologized to this Minister, because how can we have confidence in a minister who deliberately damaged Turkish-Dutch and Moroccan-Dutch youth with the Motivation study? How can we have confidence in a minister who takes money from people in Morocco, but who knowingly gives people in illegal Israeli settlements too much money and knowingly violates the law? This Minister has made no excuses for this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u393	Mr Öztürk began by stating that the Kuzu/Öztürk Group had never tabled a motion of censure before and has only supported one. In doing so, he seems to be aware of the fact that this is one of the most serious means available to the Chamber. When I look at the right side of the Chamber, I recognise that there has been some inflation in the use of this substance, but still. If Mr Öztürk threatened to table such a motion yesterday, which is the most serious means we have here, it would be strange not to have half of the debate here today. If it's so important, isn't it obvious to be here to check whether or not directors operate confidently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u394	I think that is a very weak argument. Over the last two years, we have asked this Minister the same question in committee, here in plenary and with questions to the House. We said, "Do what Diederik did, do what the Prime Minister did, admit that you shouldn't have done it." If the Minister refuses to do so for two years in all these debates and also violates the law, yes, you will submit a motion of censure. We are here with two MPs and we have several responsibilities. The moment I have to be somewhere else to do other things, including for the Chamber, also for the country, I have to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u395	As far as the latter is concerned, there is often a fight in procedural meetings to allow smaller groups to do their work in an orderly manner. But in this particular case, that is not a strong argument. Mr Öztürk himself begins to say that we have only supported one and we have never submitted one. In doing so, he takes account of the fact that this is not just a means. If that is announced and it is apparently an exciting debate here, then is it mad to be absent a large part of the debate? Then it's crazy not to see if directors have gained or lost trust, and then submit such a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u396	I announced it yesterday. Today I went to the interrupting microphone and asked the Minister in two interruptions: would you still excuse us so that we can proceed? If the Minister doesn't respond and knowingly violates a law, what other possibility do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u397	It's not entirely clear to me. Mr Öztürk mentioned several points to which he wanted an answer in the first place. It would certainly have made sense for him to have entered into the debate with the Minister on all these points in order to see if he could get an answer that he would like. In a debate you can come together, you can connect. If a minister indicates something that Mr Öztürk does not agree with, the debate will allow you to come together. Why did Mr Öztürk avoid that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u398	Mrs Voortman says she attended the debate. I've given you five points of view. Has the Minister replied to any of them? Did the Minister reply today to one question from our ten-minute speech? That's the kind of minister you're trying to defend. The Minister didn't even want to answer and then I'm left with the interruption. I did it. If the Minister refuses, then this is the last resort, and I have deployed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u399	If you want to get an answer on five points and you don't get an answer, you'll be standing here five times at the microphone to get that answer. If you don't get that answer by then, you can indeed file motions. You have already thought in advance that you would table this motion and that you would actively avoid the debate with the Minister. That's what I have a problem with. I do not even have such a problem with the tabling of this motion, however difficult it may be, but with the fact that it is the result of a debate that Mr Öztürk simply did not want to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u400	I am sorry that this is a procedural discussion. The pain of young people, those who have not been able to find an internship, those who have not been able to find a job: there is no mention of this. You did not have the debate. People listen and say, "What kind of thing is that?" The point is that this minister refuses to apologize when he has deliberately broken the law and has deliberately made young people unemployed. It would be a good thing for this Minister to do the right thing and say: I have failed. That's possible, isn't it? Ask the Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u401	Then engage in the debate!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u402	For two years, I have entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u403	The young people also see which people are trying to change the Minister's mind all day, even though they are not always able to do so. Let me ask you another question. You can file a motion of censure. That is indeed the most serious means we have. That means that you are going to use it at the moment, and I would like to stress that 'at the moment' is that you think the Minister is out of line. I believe that moment was there a year and a half ago. That report was delivered at the end of 2014 and the Minister's response came to the Chamber in mid-2015. A year and a half ago! And now Mr Öztürk is using that report and the Minister's reaction to table a motion of censure. Then he is certainly just looking for an opportunity to do so and this is not the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u404	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u405	The question is: why do you come only a year and a half after this has been played with a motion of censure when this point is so hard on your stomach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u406	Then you haven't been paying attention. The violation of the law on Israeli settlements did not take place until before the summer. We have given this Minister many times, and I have said this in my speech, opportunities to rectify things he has done wrong. It's called patience. This means that we have also been patient, have sought the connection and have tried it in a good way. Can he actually do anything in return? He doesn't want it. After two years, it stops once, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u407	I think Mr Öztürk is just going to fall into the trap here. He sees the elections coming and is choosing this moment to present a motion of censure on the basis of an argument he could have made a year and a half ago. You're a little out of control, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u408	With this kind of interruptions you're falling through the basket I'm all done. As soon as the Minister breaks a law here, you must come here. At the moment when young people are in pain by this minister, you must come here and not start the procedures now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u409	Mr Öztürk has to know for himself which motions he is tabling. He does support it with a lot of suspicion and mistrust. Actually, he comes up with disgusting insinuations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u410	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u411	I am speaking, Mr President. Decent!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u412	And I'm in charge of the order. Mr Marcouch has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u413	The report is indeed from two years ago, as Mr Schouten just said. In my view, the Minister has spoken with these Turkish young people much more often and much more than you have in those two years. We've been two years. Today we were talking mainly about employment. We also talked about discrimination in the labour market. The only thing Mr Öztürk can do for those young people is to vote in favour of a motion of censure, and even more suspiciously, even more distrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u414	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u415	Has Mr Öztürk of DENK really done better than think, I think sometimes he doesn't realize that his way of acting, sowing suspicion and mistrust divides and doesn't connect...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u416	What's the question? Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u417	...and that's much more damaging to the young people he's talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u418	I understand that you are letting Mr Marcouch go because you may have a certain connection with him, but the point is that he is asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u419	What a level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u420	I have an order proposal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u421	You can submit any order proposals you want. You're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u422	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u423	You're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u424	Mr Öztürk, I am talking about who can ask a question when and not you. Mr Marcouch made an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u425	You are the President of this Chamber and you were elected by this Chamber. I reject Mr Öztürk, a Member of this Chamber, talking about you in this way and actually mocking the President of this Chamber and the whole Chamber. Disgusting and disgusting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u426	You have a point of order, Mr Azmani?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u427	Yes, a point of order. I think we are already paying too much attention to this. I don't know which movies are being made now. Please, let's just take that motion. We'll see what we can do with it later. I imagine we're not going to vote on this shit until tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u428	I am particularly sorry to see Mr Marcouch here, Mr Marcouch, who has for many years been wise to young people, Mr Marcouch, who is defending the acceptance of discrimination, Mr Marcouch who is just admitting to it. Faced with the pain that the young people are suffering, he just says: swallow it, just go on, let this minister suffer the pain. What I regret is that he actually agrees with me, but that for the place he wants, for his position, he has to show this kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u429	I only have one thing. Mr Öztürk is a fan of videos. I suggest he look back on this video and be deeply, deeply ashamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u430	If there's one person who should be deeply ashamed, it's the minister. He's damaged these young people in recent years. And you, all of you, let it happen. I'd say take another look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u431	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their reply. During the first term, I have already mentioned the fact that there is still scope for preachers of violence to enter the Netherlands, that there has never been a violence mosque closed in the Netherlands and that organisations inviting these preachers of violence are not being addressed. If we want integration to succeed someday, I assume that everyone in this house will have to acknowledge dangers, but we also have to act hard. Radical Islam is a danger to public order and security, a danger to social peace and stability in the Netherlands, and must be combated as much as possible. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas preachers of violence pose a threat to public order and security;]] [[Whereas radical Islam runs counter to Western core values and proclaims a message that opposes integration into our society;]] [[noting that violent preachers are invited by various Islamic foundations in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to promote integration by focusing on the dissolution of foundations inviting preachers of violence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u432	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Monasch, who has one minute's speaking time. I wonder how many motions you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u433	Two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u434	Then I'd start reading straight away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u435	Mr. Chairman. The first motion was also tabled by my colleague Van Vliet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that genuine asylum seekers are asylum seekers fleeing war, violence or persecution;]] [[considers that any threat, restriction or intimidation towards third parties by people seeking asylum in the Netherlands is unacceptable and will seriously undermine the desire to promote integration in the Netherlands;]] [[considers that asylum seekers who do not support and respect Article 1 of the Constitution and other fundamental rights should not be included in the asylum seekers' procedure in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to take all necessary steps to establish and maintain this limit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an increase in supply leads to a reduction in the price;]] [[noting that an increased influx of foreign labour is putting pressure on wages in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the impact of the influx of workers from Eastern Europe on wage formation in, inter alia, Dutch horticulture, construction, road transport and other relevant sectors where the use of foreign labour is frequent;]] [[also invites the Government to report to the Court before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Monasch and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-66]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-XV-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u436	Mr. Chairman. I will answer the few remaining questions and then deal with the motions that are more within my domain. Then the Secretary of State will do so in turn for the motions that suit her. I would like to begin by thanking the Chamber not only for a very pleasant debate, which was well-chaired, so that it was not too long and not too short, but also the cooperation that we had to have with each other in recent years. A large number of changes and legislative proposals were supported by this Chamber. I would also like to thank those who have not supported my proposals very much for their criticism, because that also makes proposals better. The CDA asked for an overview of the collective agreement compliance and its results. I know that there are at least a number of factsheets on how to tackle bogus structures and the evasion of collective agreements, and on the support we have provided for this approach. At least I'll send those fact sheets to the Chamber. If there's anything else, I'm gonna have to check it out. We may also need to discuss this in greater depth. There were a number of more rhetorical questions, including from the SP, about a judgment on cabinet policy. I will not go into that much longer, because I have just been able to do it extensively. It is clear that much has been redistributed to ensure that the people with the lowest incomes have been able to survive the difficult years. Various laws have been introduced to tackle the exploitation of the weakest in the labour market. There is a new social foundation for the labour market. In other words, I do not fully recognise the qualifications of the SP. I also regret it, because we could also be allies on some of those issues. Mr Azmani is asking about the preventive side of the approach to jihadism, precisely because of the concerns about it, and whether we are doing enough about it. We're doing everything we can. The action programme has been updated and adapted for a number of reasons along the way. That's because the threat is changing, because the nature of radicalisation is changing and we're seeing new phenomena. But that work isn't done. We started the program in August 2014. The preventive side has, quite rightly, room for manoeuvre. You can now see that the number of trainings is huge. We need to be constantly focused on this in order to ensure that the growth rate does not continue. We'll do whatever we can. D66 calls for support from employers who employ people who have or have had cancer. I am very pleased with initiatives in the business community to do something about this. These are very different initiatives. Mr Van Weyenberg and I both know that. I call it the deployment of special coaches and the development of special interventions. The business network that brings together the strengths and experiences is also such an initiative. It is a good thing that companies take their social responsibility in this way. Of course, it has to do with the fact that everyone in his or her environment knows people with that disease. It's about private initiatives. In my view, that is a nice interpretation of good employership. So I do not see an additional role for the public authorities in this respect in the form of co-financing. The experiment with the early deployment of the no-riskpolis can indeed support employers. The employer will then be financially compensated if he hires a safety netter which would then fail because of illness. In that case, UWV pays the sickness benefit. This is expected to start in 2017. I think we should wait for the outcome of that experiment before we take further action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u437	Among other things, the Minister mentions the business network and the experiments with the no-riskpolis. Can we see if these two can be sounded together? Then a business network knows that it could use some of those no-risk policies. That was kind of what I was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u438	Sure. We will also have to make full use of such an experiment, so the knowledge and experience gained from it should not be limited to the specific case of an individual safety net, but should increase it. Then you can learn from it and benefit from it. GroenLinks asked about the government that included the collective wage as a condition in the procurement and procurement policy. A sympathetic thought, partly superfluous because of the chain liability. I indicated that in the first term. For the rest, I would like to undertake to include this in the ongoing investigation into the possibility of excluding offenders from labour laws from public procurement, which is due to be published this spring. 50PLUS came up with examples. I have now understood from UWV that the group of WAO and WIA beneficiaries abroad gets the decision on the right to benefit in Dutch by default, with the accompanying letter explaining in the mother tongue. The annual request for data by UWV or the request in the context of the social-medical re-evaluation takes place by default in the mother tongue of the beneficiary or applicant. It's gotta send a lot of data. It is in the mutual interest that no mistakes are made. Reporting in the mother tongue is important. If a Dutchman receives correspondence in the language of the country of residence, there is an unintentional omission, which will of course be restored after a signal from the person concerned. Then I'll come to the motions. The Karabulut motion in part No. 27 is a sympathetic motion on the enforcement of freight transport, but that motion concerns the policy area of my colleague from I and M. It concerns enforcement by the ILT of legislation for which I and M are the primary responsibility. I would therefore ask the authors to hold that motion, so that I can understand myself with the Minister of I and M and ask her to respond and to come up with a pre-advisation. Otherwise, I would have to discourage the motion here out of collusion with my colleague, who I have not been able to consult on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u439	Is it perhaps possible to do so before Tuesday's votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u440	No, we're going to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u441	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u442	Tomorrow's Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u443	Oh, yeah. If that doesn't work tomorrow, I understand the Minister so that it won't work. Can we do it next Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u444	I'm gonna ask her that. I'd like to convey it with all my love, so she can pre-advise in writing. I appreciate Mrs Karabulut's willingness to take that into account. Then I will translate that willingness into additional urge to pre-advise soon. The Karabulut/Ulenbelt motion in part No. 28 is partly unnecessary because the Chamber already owes me a letter and partly unrealistic when it comes to things that you would like to transpose into law before the elections. So I advise against it. The urgent nature of the Karabulut/Ulenbelt motion 29 I feel and share. We have just spoken very well about this in the debate, but I think that unfair remuneration can best be dealt with by changing the rules of the game, because then you will not have the disadvantages of this proposal from the SP. So I'm gonna dissuade it. The motion-Van 't Wout/Pieter Heerma in part No. 30 is about the Craft Academy. There's a lot of work in crafts. This offers opportunities, especially for 50-plussers, but so far the influx is low for all kinds of reasons. I am therefore in favour of the initiative of the Craft Academy. Within the Action Plan, funding is available for such initiatives through a subsidy scheme. Of course, there are conditions. If I may read the motion in such a way that I am going to consider how this initiative could fit into those conditions, then I see it as support and leave it to the Chamber to judge. Then there will also be cover to make it possible. I thought I saw the petitioner make a positive gesture. Yes. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Pieter Heerma motion in part No. 32 calls on the Government to ensure that obstacles to national and international regulation are removed in order to impose that sanction. The same applies here as for the motion in part No. 27. It is in the policy area of the colleague of I and M; this is the policy area of the Secretary of State of V and J. He has already promised the Chamber to look at some 50 cases to see what is possible. It is also clear that our commitment is to be able to implement this part of government policy as well. I would therefore ask Mr Heerma to hold the motion until the Secretary of State for V and J reports to the Chamber on those 50 cases, so that he can better understand exactly what is being asked in this motion. Otherwise, I'd have to dissuade her, because I'd be in someone else's wallet doing grass dunes. The motion-Kerstens/Van 't Wout in part No. 33 calls for the social agreement extension of the inspection to be made structural. That task is still very topical. We agree on this in the light of the debate. I attach great importance to a fair labour market on which people are paid the wages they are entitled to. So I have sympathy for it. I was already going to try to do this with the Spring Paper, but I see that the Chamber wants certainty at this stage. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The Kerstens/Cegerek motion in part No. 34 is about a national-wide circular economy programme. Since 2015, there has been a European circular economy package and since September this year also a national programme for the circular economy. The transition to such an economy can indeed generate a lot of jobs and money. The ESC has also focused on the bottom of the labour market, particularly in this context. I therefore see the motion as supporting policy and leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the Marcouch c.s. motion. in piece No. 39 the government is invited to come up with a specific catch-up programme for this group of 50-plus-Dutch. I agree with the authors that there is a social problem. In the context of the specific attention we have for 50-plussers, it would be good to pay particular attention to this. It would also be good to combine this with the interdepartmental program Tel along with Language, in which both OCW, VWS and SZW are involved. This allows you to increase the social network of these participants. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'm coming to the motion that's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u445	Before you proceed, Mr Van Weyenberg has a question on the Marcouch c.s motion. in piece No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u446	The Marcouch c.s. motion. in piece No. 38 is about applying anonymously. I believe that's what the Minister is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u447	Did I make a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u448	Yes, you have the Marcouch c.s. motion. in piece No. Thirty-eight skipped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u449	My pre-opinion was on the motion on 50-plussers. That's the Marcouch c.s. motion. in piece No. 39.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u450	I think that was perfectly clear, but I think the Minister's motion was the Marcouch c.s. in piece No. 38 mistakenly skipped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u451	Let's do it now, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg is indeed right. That's right. At that point the same problem actually arises as with two previous motions, the first of which was about I and M and the second one about V and J. In my view, I also indicated this in the debate. This is in the policy area of my colleague from Wonen and Rijksdienst. I already promised to bring the pilot to his attention. I therefore ask the House to hold the motion on this point too. I will ask Mr Blok to respond, as we had already agreed. The Court may then decide whether or not that is sufficient. I do not feel free to embrace this motion, which deals with its area, particularly in view of the discussion on this substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u452	Okay, I'll hold the motion, but we'll have clarity before Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u453	I can't promise that. However, as with the previous motion, I am happy to do so and I will ask Mr Blok to clarify it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u454	The only thing we can take care of the Minister is his efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u455	You do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u456	At the request of Mr Marcouch, I propose his motion (3450-XV, No. 38). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u457	I'm coming to the De Graaf motion in part No. 43. I thank him very much for his "four more years" call to my address. It was a surprising day in many ways, and this was one of those surprises. I blame that on the fact that he was so excited about the appointment of John the Wolf a few weeks ago. That now translates into such enthusiasm. Little is much for those who do not expect much, so I thought of myself. I'm dissuading his motion. This kind of investigation is not up to me, but to the AIVD, because this is directly about the security of the State. I come to the Van Weyenberg motion on part No. 44 on the unemployment trap. I understand the motion, but there are several investigations to get a closer look at this point. The Member of Parliament, Mr Omtzigt, has also made a number of requests to this effect. My request is to hold the motion and do it with my commitment. I would like to take a look at the unemployment trap, but I would like to take into account the various requests that have been made about it, otherwise we will be putting new rules in the budget. I know what the Chamber wants. It wants to reflect the impact on people returning to work from unemployment as a result of the difference between benefit and income. But I'm asking the Chamber for room to determine exactly how we're going to do that. I don't want to tie it to 120% right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u458	The proposal is twofold. Firstly, put this in the picture with legislative proposals that have a serious impact, for example the tax plan. We can then weigh it up with that particular bill. Secondly, bring back one point in the budget that was always in it until 2012. I understand that the Minister is doing a broader study that also deals with the content of the policy, but these two proposals only mean that you report on something. I would almost say that these are two procedural proposals. In my view, they do not bite with the more substantive appreciations and debates, also in the light of the debate with Mr Omtzigt, which I myself attended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u459	It is also not at all a matter of substance to provide these figures. I'll put it another way. May I take the motion as follows? With these suggestions in mind, I will deal with the request for information from the Chamber, but give me a moment to discuss with Mr Wiebes what is a sensible way of shaping this. I'll let you do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u460	Then I'll hold the motion, but I don't want to wait for that investigation. This is also about the content of policies, for example for single-earners. That is a very different debate. Would it help if I gave the minister a few weeks? It's two things that I think are important to take care of. I'm looking for a realistic deadline to hold the motion. I wouldn't want to do that indefinitely either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u461	I wouldn't want that at all. I wouldn't even dare ask. If I could come back to it in January, could that work for Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u462	It would help me if we could hear something at the end of the Christmas church in mid-January. Then I can put the motion to the vote in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u463	Then I'm gonna make an effort to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u464	At the request of Mr Van Weyenberg, I propose his motion (3450-XV, No. 44). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u465	Then I come to the motion on part No. 45 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Karabulut. I agree that there is little point in asking people who, in the short term, I am thinking of starting a month with a regular job, to write and apply for letters. I want to see if we can find a practical solution to this. I had already promised this in general consultation on this issue. However, it is good to realise that, as long as people are not at work, the benefit is financed from the contributions of other workers. If there is any possibility of limiting the use of collective provisions, we should try to do so. In other words, I think that the three-month deadline, as mentioned in the motion, is too broad. That's why I'm betraying her. My commitment from the general consultation remains to give a little more room for those who have fortunately already found something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u466	I think the minister can guess what I'm gonna ask. Does he have a slightly less generous term in mind? I get really kafkaesque letters from people who have to tell their new employer that they're going to start with him in two months, but are still writing very busy job applications. People really don't understand that. The minister says he's looking at it. I'd like to take care of it most of all. I am therefore strongly considering putting my motion to the vote, unless the Minister says: in two weeks' time or so you will hear from me what I can do. This is not going to happen within a week, but I really want to put an end to this, and I think the Minister wants that too. Is the three-month deadline a problem? Is that supposed to be two months? Does the minister need another week for this? What am I supposed to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u467	In this form, I advise against the motion. I am afraid to say how much time I can say something sensible about that. The commitment has been made in general consultation and I am going to honour it, but I cannot but respond to the motion as it stands. In the motion in part No. 46 I'm asked to talk to insurance companies. I shall, of course, leave the motion to the Court's opinion, but with the expectation that insurers will have to adjust the statistics on survival. Mr Van Weyenberg expects people with a history of illness to have better access to it, but of course that is up to the insurers themselves. I'll talk to you about this. I understand the case very well and will therefore pull the insurance companies on their jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u468	And your judgment is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u469	Judgment Room. Then I come to the motion on part No. 47 by Mr Van Meenen. I agree with him that it is good to look at improvements in the integration system. I also indicated this in my October letter, but it is not wise to make such fundamental changes before the law is properly evaluated. It is particularly important to ensure that the system itself works for the people who use it. I share the importance of a quality offer, as Mr Van Meenen points out. The measures in the October letter are therefore also aimed at improving quality and transparency. I therefore advise against this proposal. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Van Meenen asked for an early, thorough and complete review of the law. Sure. In January there will be a policy review to the Chamber, which includes integration. A report from the General Court on integration policy will also be published. It therefore looks closely at the functioning of the integration system. On that basis, you can then consider whether a further evaluation is already needed. That means I'm deceiving the motion in this form and right now. Mr Van Meenen might be able to keep her until we have those two studies in place in January. In the motion in part No. 49 Mr Van Meenen asked the government to consider integration as a joint responsibility. Can I take that motion in such a way that it refers to what is also described in the Agenda for Integration, namely a greater effort by the newcomer but also, of course, a responsibility for the receiving society to accept? There's the commonality that's mentioned here. So, if I may read the motion in this way, I consider it to support policies as laid down in the Agenda for Integration. I can see from Mr Van Meenen's non-verbal reaction that that is the case. Then I'll leave the motion judgment room. I'll come to the motion in part No. 50, on differentiation at the level in the integration process. I advise against this motion, because it differs from the system in which the municipality is given a role to guide citizens to the right course, but citizens can choose for themselves who they want to take the course with. The motion in part No. 51 concerns a mobility centre for the Drechtsteden region. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I could tell from Mrs Schouten's speech that it is still early to see whether it should be a mobility centre. But the willingness is there to provide additional support. When social partners come up with good plans, I always want to see if I can help in a situation as described here. If I may take it that way, I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u470	It's a little more than social partners. It is precisely the municipalities that are in the stomach with this. Of course, there is a separate route, to put it that way, for the companies concerned, but at the same time municipalities want to avoid being late with all kinds of regulations. They want to guide people from work to work as quickly as possible. So I would not just like it to depend on the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u471	I don't mean it like that; a little more elaborate than that. It is important that there should be a labour market analysis from the region, i.e. in cooperation with the municipalities, showing how many workers are actually involved, whether and to what extent employers in the region are able and willing to accompany workers from work to work and whether there are opportunities for a social plan that provides for this. This provides for a role for the municipalities or the region as a whole and, of course, for employers. Based on an analysis of what's going on, you can determine what can be useful in support. We have done this before, at ALDEL in the North and in Bergen op Zoom in response to Philip Morris. You always have to do it on the basis of a labour market analysis of that region, because then you can help people with a focus. The question is whether we are prepared to do so and the answer is yes, but it has to be in that order. The motion in part No. 52 is about a change in the chain determination. I disagree. I do not think this is surprising either, given the debate we have had. I therefore advise against the motion. We have talked about a second multi-annual contract many times. I have discussed this regularly with social partners, employers and employees for a reason. With regard to the dilemma I put forward yesterday, namely whether or not it can be cancelled in the meantime, there has not been much clarity so far. If it can be cancelled in the meantime, it does not offer any additional guarantee for the employee. If it cannot be cancelled in the meantime, no employer will offer it. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. Fifty-six. In his motion in part No. 59 Mr Krol said that income policy was unbalanced. I do not agree with that, as we discussed in the first term. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 60 I'd like to dissuade. I have indicated that I am prepared to reflect on the difference in job application requirements for a category that should no longer be expected to do so. We have to do this very carefully and carefully. In general consultation, we have also discussed this with each other as such. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion in part No. 64 the Chamber is asked for a ruling. I don't have to give advice on that. The motion in part No. 65 is about disbanding foundations. We need to look at criminal offences before we can dissolve foundations. Those crimes must also be attributed to such a foundation. We need to focus on the hate preachers themselves and stop them. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 66 concerns the Article 1 limit. I have indicated that not only Article 1, but also Article 6, 7 and a number of other constitutional articles will soon be mandatory for examination in the Chamber. I therefore advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 67, by Mr Monasch. This is a study of the effects of influx. There has been extensive research, for example by the Central Planning Bureau, recently and also in 2011. We must focus our attention on combating unfair competition. So much for the motions for which I consider myself responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u472	In anticipation of the Minister's response, we would like to see the motion on item No. Twenty-seven to Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u473	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (34550-XV, No. 27). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u474	There was another amendment tabled, but I understand that it falls under the Secretary of State. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u475	Mr. Chairman. I shall start with that amendment, in part No. 22, on the use of experience experts. For the sake of clarity, I shall leave the opinion to the Chamber. Before I go over the motions, I will first go into a question that is still before Mr Heerma. He asked me when I could report on the BIZ platforms. I imagine that's February. Then I must have been able to talk to them. The first motion, in part No. 23, is Mrs Karabulut's. It calls for the cost-sharing standard in the AOW to be definitively deleted. This cabinet is not going to introduce the cost sharing standard in the AOW. We postponed the introduction until 1 January 2019. If this motion were to be passed, it would have no cover. So I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The second motion by Mrs Karabulut, on item No. 24, is also about the cost sharing standard, but wide. It is asked to abolish the cost-sharing standard for all target groups for 2017. Part of the Participation Act is that, if people can share costs, they can also receive a lower benefit, even if they are married. The law allows municipalities to deliver customised services. This also happens in many municipalities. Here, too, there is no cover. I'm dissuading the motion. With Mrs Karabulut's third motion, in part No. 25, is asked to create 25,000 additional full-time jobs. The Participation Act aims to support people in obtaining work. Of course, we also have the low income advantage, the LIV, which makes it attractive to hire people at the bottom of the labour market. I notice that municipalities make their own decisions. For example, Amsterdam has the work brigade. The Hague is also doing something about this. Municipalities therefore have the freedom to do so. However, this motion says that you should make available, in a structural manner, EUR 254 million from the integration allowance. I don't think that's a good idea. The leadership really lies with the municipalities. I advise against this motion. The fourth motion tabled by Mrs Karabulut, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party It is requested to adapt the OBR in such a way that people remain at the level of the AOW until the age of AOW. We have chosen to inform the OBR of the assistance. We do this because there are also people who are on welfare and up to the age of AOW at that level. It would be very special if we put others at the AOW level. There is no cover here, by the way. If we wanted to do this together, it would still be very complex in terms of implementation. Then, for example, you also get the retroactive power to choose. I therefore advise against this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 31 by Mr Van 't Wout and Mr Kerstens on the candidate scout. The application developed by the UWV can indeed be released for use by municipalities. This motion therefore supports the current policy. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. The motion by Mr Kerstens in part No. 35 is about obliging municipalities to check for displacement. In my term of office, I said that I too believe that repression should be countered and that I too believe that municipal councils and the trade union movement have a role to play in this. However, I have also said that it goes too far to force municipalities to impose infrastructure against displacement by law. So I will do everything I can to confront municipalities, but if I have to force municipalities to check for displacement in advance, that is a step too far. So if the petitioner stays with the obligation, I advise against the motion. In the Kerstens/Yücel motion in part No. 36 The government is invited to launch a public campaign in the framework of "Every child participates" in collaboration with municipalities. That's already in the plans, but we're working on it. I can therefore leave this motion to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. 37 also belongs to members Kerstens and Yücel. It calls on the government to use the results of the preliminary investigation now for the follow-up study. I would like to do this with great pleasure, because I am also, of course, involved in the concreteisation of the Rijksincasso vision. I aim to ensure that this study is completed in mid-2017. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. I come to the motion-De Graaf/Tony van Dijck on piece No. 40, in which the government is asked to use the interest rate counter to temporarily increase the AOW to compensate for the non-indexation and possibly shortening of pension benefits. I said that we were looking at the situation in January, but I also said that thanks to the AOW, which we index every time, poverty among the elderly in the Netherlands is fortunately much lower than in other European countries. We are going to look at the situation in January. By the way, of course, this is not proper coverage. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u476	I think I have learned from the answer given by the Secretary of State that poverty is the starting point from which the Secretary of State looks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u477	I am, of course, looking at the motion as such. It calls for the interest rate counter to be used to temporarily increase the AOW. I do not think that is a good idea, because I said that the AOW is always properly indexed. I have also said that it is fortunate that older people in the Netherlands are less poor than older people in the rest of the world; you could almost say that. Anyway, that's an observation. I advise against the motion, because the AOW is indexed annually and because the interest rate counter does not carry proper coverage. In any case, we should not use the AOW as a cover for pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u478	It is, of course, an occasional story, so that coverage is excellent, but I am not entirely reassured about the starting point of the Secretary of State. I also thought I heard it wasn't a slip of the tongue. That's what I'm gonna take for granted. There is nothing else we can do about this now, but I think it is important to mention that the Secretary of State is actually taking people's poverty as a starting point for stepping up policies. And then four years of policy becomes very cynical: poverty is the starting point. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u479	Poverty is not a starting point. I have only noticed that, fortunately, poverty among the elderly in the Netherlands is not as high as in the rest of the world. That is merely a statement; I have no policy on it. In the motion-De Graaf in part No. 41 the government is asked to ensure that no pension fund is reduced. Pension funds, of course, have their own policies. This motion denies the own responsibility of pension fund directors and social partners. The government cannot, of course, issue this guarantee for each pension fund. I said that, in January, we will look at how the situation has unfolded and then I will send the appreciation of the cabinet to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 42 the government is invited to return the calculation rate to the old system before 2007. We have discussed this before in our debates. I do not think this is a good idea, because we have a very nuanced policy in the context of the new financial review framework, so I would advise against this motion. I shall now turn to Mrs Schouten's motion and Mr Heerma's motion for a resolution. 53. It calls on the government to examine, together with municipalities, how poverty policies can not reach certain groups and propose concrete improvements, with a single debt contact as much as possible. I find this in itself a sympathetic motion. I'm just looking for a way I could carry out the motion. I would like to explore, together with municipalities, how we can ensure that groups are not reached. Since it says 'as much as possible with a single contact person', I would like to leave this motion to the House's opinion, but on the understanding that I am assuming that I will also look at the authors of the motion, that we will, of course, be taking the lead not only in the municipalities, but also in the wider context. This motion stems from the report of the churches in the Netherlands. I think it is very good that there are many more institutions that are helping to develop debt relief and combat poverty. Then I come to the motion on part No. 54 in which the government is invited, in close consultation with Cedris and the VNG, to reach a solution to the Spring Note for a possible shortage of SW companies. I read this motion as such that we are, of course, looking at the actual realization of the outflow from the SW companies. It is not possible at that time that is stated here as a second request to look also at the realised wage value in the new inflow. The new influx is now being sheltered, because the law will not enter into force until 1 January. I have already promised that I will look at the outflow over the year 2016 in the Spring Paper together with Cedris and the VNG. In that sense, this motion supports the policy. I also said that, on the basis of this outflow, we should also look at the finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u480	It is remarkable, however, that the Secretary of State says that she cannot determine that second. I think she is now saying: we are giving sufficient resources for this realised wage value. In that case, she can already determine what the real wage value is. The influx of shelter is about to increase. We have passed a law for that. Then you can just look at the wage value compared to what is calculated by the Empire. That's not so complicated, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u481	We are now sitting on an average of 30%. Cedris says it could be about 20%. I find it very worthwhile to look at the realised wage value, but at that point that is not yet feasible. When we look at the actual realization of the outflow, that is doable. That's what I'd like to graft on. If the second request remains in the motion, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u482	I think it is essential that the second part should also be looked at, because the first part had indeed already been mentioned by the Secretary of State. So I'm just maintaining this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u483	Then I come to the motion on part No. 55 by Mrs Voortman and Mrs Karabulut. They call on the government to increase the scope for additional income in the Participation Act and to remove the mandatory consideration. That is what we have had our debate on. The AMvB is hung in both chambers. A similar motion has been rejected before. There is sufficient space within the frameworks of the AMvB, which municipalities can use. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 57 the government is invited to evaluate whether there are more heavy professions for which there is a urgency to remove the RVU levy. I must advise against abolishing or deleting the RVU for this group of elderly people, because there is no cover for it. It is also impossible because we cannot label the heavy professions. That brings me to the motion in part No. 58. It calls on the government, in consultation with the social partners, to propose ways of defining "heavy professions." The aim is, of course, to ensure that as many people as possible are healthy enough to reach retirement age. People do live longer. It's tough matter. In the past, when I was Secretary of State for the first time, I also looked into whether you could find an arrangement for heavy-duty professions. An important part of this was that the social partners would come together to identify these professions. In practice, it proved extremely difficult to define them. The social partners did not agree either. I'd like to start talking to the social partners sometime. After all, we've been seven years. But I dissuade the motion because it is not realistic for me to report to the House of Representatives before 15 March on how we could find a route. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u484	Before I give you the floor, Mrs Voortman, I would like to say that the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman and others. in piece No. 56 probably skipped. The Minister will be able to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u485	That motion has already been made, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u486	Oh, okay. I now give you the floor, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u487	I understand the Secretary of State's motion in part No. 58 advises because of the date, so it is unrealistic to ask for it before 15 March 2017. I have, of course, set that date because I hope that it could be included in the formation negotiations for a subsequent cabinet. If I delete that date or I choose a later date, will the Secretary of State's objection lapse?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u488	The point is that I have tried before to get a real good look at the heavy professions. So I know how uncomfortable that is. I could read the motion in such a way that I go into consultation with the social partners, with them leading the way. They must label the heavy-duty professions themselves and also consider in their collective bargaining whether they could and would want to do something with them at all. It cannot be that we take the lead from the cabinet or from the government. I would be happy to enter into consultation with the social partners to see if they are able to do so. If I may read the motion in this way, I could leave the verdict to the Chamber. But that date will have to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u489	I'll cancel the date. I fully agree with the Secretary of State that the social partners play a very important role in this. So I can live with the Secretary of State's lecture. Is it still necessary for me to pass on a change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u490	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u491	I will; it will mean that the date will come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u492	Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Krol's motion on item No. 61. It calls on the government to fully review the bridging regime on adequacy and to make proposals before 15 February. In my debate with Mr Heerma, of course, I made a commitment that I would like to report before 1 March and that I would look at the nature of the bridging arrangement. This motion is therefore superfluous. I dissuade her, because it is also very fast to have to make proposals before 15 February. We're not gonna make it. Then the motion to part No. 62. It calls for a thorough assessment of the social minimum. This suggests that we do not already do that. Of course, we always have the income annex to the budget. We monitor poverty. The CPB reports on purchasing power. The Nibud ditto. So we are always looking at the coloring of the social minimum. The motion is unnecessary; I advise her. The motion in part No. 63 is the last one. It calls on the government to take measures to avoid unnecessary reductions in pensions. I informed the Chamber that the cabinet will report again in January. Then, of course, we will also look at how the situation unfolded on 31 December. In the recitals of the motion, there is fundamental criticism of the review framework. In view of that, I must advise against the motion. This brings me to the end of my advice to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u493	I'll ask for it for the last time. I've handed over a whole set of people's questions to the rulers. I would be very grateful if we could get an answer or hear it when that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u494	We have now been able to look at the questions. It is a very varied package of reactions and comments. It is very good that people respond to policies and make proposals. We both receive extremely many citizen letters and other signals when working visits and visits to the Ministry. The Secretary of State also has regular contact with the National Clients Council, which feeds us with signals. We also often invite letter writers to the Ministry. We will be happy to involve the package in the design of the policy and in the consultation with the National Client Council, but will not provide separate answers. Once again, we will involve it in the discussions we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u495	I find that somewhat disappointing. These people have taken the trouble to ask their questions. I have been able to incorporate some of the questions into my text. Another part I wanted to hand over to the rulers in the hope that there would be a response. I'm gonna take another look at the rulers. It doesn't have to be very soon, but can it be answered in writing at a later date? Then I'll make sure people get the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u496	I think I've said enough about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u497	I would like to make a comment on my motion on part No. 46 on insurance for ex-cancer patients. I was also pleased to hear the Minister's opinion on this. This motion has now been co-signed by Mrs Schut-Welken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u498	This amendment will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u499	We have come to the end of the debate on the Social Affairs and Employment budget. The budget, the amendments and the motions will be put to the vote tomorrow afternoon. A motion of censure has been tabled by Mr Öztürk. It is customary for us to vote on it immediately after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u500	It is indeed customary to vote immediately after the debate on a motion of censure. In view of the many reactions and interruptions to the tabling of this motion, I would like to propose that the motion should be put to the vote tomorrow afternoon at the regular votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u501	I'm going to see if there's sufficient support for this order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u502	I think that would be excellent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u503	That's a great offer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u504	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u505	Support, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u506	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u507	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u508	I think I've had everyone. Mr Öztürk,.................................................................................... Mr Öztürk, it is your motion! That's why the others had to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u509	It is common practice that a motion of censure should be put to the vote at the end of such a debate. A motion of censure: the name says enough. I think we should vote tonight because we need to clarify whether or not this minister can continue. We have made agreements here and let us keep those agreements in the normal way tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u510	In order to vote on a motion of censure, you also need a majority and the majority wants to vote tomorrow afternoon at the votes after the beginning of the afternoon meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u511	Mr President, it is not customary for a motion of censure to be held. I think it is also important for this Minister to know tonight what the outcome is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u512	The point is that we follow the procedures we always follow. We have a majority here and I think we should vote and clarify this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u513	But the majority won't vote tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u514	Mr President, I believe that these are indeed the rules here. The majority wanted to leave the minister in suspense. It doesn't bother the Minister himself. Mr Öztürk, you will be the first to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u515	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u516	Mr President, I regret that the procedures are not being complied with. I regret that an important motion of censure is being approached in this way by a number of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-7.u517	You don't have a majority. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State, the MPs, the supporting officials, the messengers, the Chamber Restaurant, the clerks... and, of course, the people who have followed this debate in a different way!
