ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and her associates to our midst. The first speaker is Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for coming here on such short notice. Today we finally received the letter stating how much money is going from the EU to Turkey. It appears that in 2016 there will be 119 million for the rule of law and fundamental rights in Turkey. Of these, 22 million are earmarked for the construction of new detention centres. These new detention centres are used for the 120,000 people who have been laid off and the 30,000 people who have been imprisoned as a result. At the moment, Turkey is not a rule of law. By labeling payments with the word "legal state," we are pretending to restore the rule of law. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU under pre-accession aid to Turkey in 2016:]] [[EUR 114 million in Turkey for projects in support of democracy and public administration;]] [[EUR 119 million has been committed to the rule of law and fundamental rights, of which EUR 22 million specifically for strengthening the judicial sector and capacity building of detention centres;]] [[noting that:]] [[Amnesty International says it has collected evidence that people arrested after the failed coup in Turkey are beaten, tortured and in some cases raped;]] [[the UN Special Rapporteur for Torture, Nils Melzer, concludes that in the days and weeks following the coup d'état in Turkey, arresters appear to have been widely tortured and abused;]] [[the report of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Unhuman or humiliating Treatment or Punishment of the Visit to Turkey (Istanbul, Izmir and Ankara) in August 2016 is still kept secret by the Turkish Government;]] [[Calls on the Government, at the forthcoming General Affairs Council, to urgently investigate whether EU funds have been used directly or indirectly for torture and, if the RAZ does not decide to do so, to ensure otherwise that such investigations are carried out;]] [[calls on the Government to return to the Chamber before 15 January 2017 whether there are clear indications or evidence that EU funds have been used to finance Turkish detention centres where torture is taking place or has taken place, or whether people who have taken EU-funded human rights courses are involved in torture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Segers and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1704]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u3	I agree with Mr Omtzigt. I think we share the analysis that human rights in the rule of law in Turkey are not only under severe pressure at the moment, but are being seriously violated on a number of points. At the same time, there are many people who are also committed to improving the rule of law and improving the situation of people in prisons with European money. Mr Omtzigt and I both know organisations and people who are committed to this and are doing their stinking best to do so. Now I hear this motion. Should we look these people in the eye and say 'you contribute to torture'? I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt whether he claims that in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u4	Almost all these funds are transferred directly to the Turkish Government. The 22 million for detention centres are not given to human rights defenders. They are given to the Turkish Government. For the most part, money for good public administration goes directly through the Turkish Government. We want to know whether parts of this amount of money, that is our money, money that we collect from our citizens through taxation, are being used to build Turkish prisons that are most likely tortured, to pay Turkish policemen and judges used by the repressive regime that is currently in power there. That's what we want to find out with this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u5	Again, take, for example, Dutch military officers or police officers from Europe who help set up and improve the rule of law, or improve prison, because that is what is needed in Turkey. He looks Mr Omtzigt in the eye and says: you contribute to torture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u6	I think Mrs Maij didn't understand something. I want to know what that money is used in detention centres where torture takes place. It's just the what-question. I am not saying that every project is involved, but I want to know which projects. And yes, if that's sorted out, I'll ask you to stop those projects. If Amnesty International, the Council of Europe and the UN have indications of this, how much more do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u7	Mr. Chairman. The written consultation we have had is the preparation for the EU summit. We will have another debate on this next week. I think it is very good that Mr Omtzigt has tabled a motion on the situation in prisons in Turkey. We wholeheartedly support this motion. It is, of course, good to find out what happens to EU money in the area of detention wherever torture is taking place. I'd like our support for that. I have a few more questions for the cabinet. There is a progress report from the European Commission showing that Turkey has not yet met seven visa liberalisation criteria. We have also asked for a review of the existing criteria. The Prime Minister made a commitment on this. This is meant as part of the security that the Chamber is always looking for about not negotiating with the whole package we have for the refugee deal. On the one hand, there is the reception of refugees, on the other hand, the accession talks and visa liberalisation. We in the Chamber do not want Europe to be more flexible in these two areas, because we have an interest in maintaining the refugee deal. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. The cabinet states that the situation is such that the accession talks for Turkey's membership of the European Union remain silent and no new chapters are opened. This situation must be formalised as a commitment from the Dutch cabinet to the EU. That is the commitment made on the basis of the consultations we had with the Foreign Minister last week. I think it's a cryptic description of what we enforced back then. We just said we wanted to freeze the conversations for six months. There was a majority in the Chamber who wanted that. Now it's a lot more general. My fear is that with that combination of different things in the package, visa liberalisation, entry and refugee shelter, we are heading towards a wall and we are always pretending that we will never reach that wall. We think we can keep it up with some kind of word game. At some point, however, the bomb will burst and then it is just the question whether Europe or Erdogan is the one who did it. I'd like to hear a response to the danger that's in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u8	Mrs Mai has waived her speaking time. This means that we have reached the end of the first term of office. Can the ruler answer right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u9	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u10	I'm gonna make it three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u11	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by addressing Mr Verhoeven's two questions. The first question was about visa liberalisation. If it's okay with him, I'll get back to you in a minute. The second question concerned the freezing of the negotiations. I don't think there's anything cryptic about what's in there. It's a description of the actual situation. It is a reflection of the extensive debate which the Chamber has had with the Foreign Minister. A motion has been passed and the cabinet is carrying out that motion; there is nothing cryptic or complicated about that. We cannot, of course, say anything about the outcome of this effort, but neither did Mr Verhoeven. So we're gonna do this. At the end of the RAZ, the Chamber will hear more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u12	For the listeners I say that "RAZ" stands for: General Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u13	It was a commitment to the Chamber. I didn't want this to be too cryptic, just because we didn't table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u14	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u15	We felt that the Foreign Minister wanted to respond to the concern of the majority of the Chamber, which was also expressed in concrete terms. I understand this way of explaining, but I am concerned about the following. If the Chamber does not stand up and does not table a motion because it trusts in the way in which it is handled, but then receives a cryptic description of what was concrete before, it must continue to carry out its controlling task. I therefore hope that the cabinet will say that it is going to do what we have agreed and that it is not going to back down now. The latter was the feeling that the Foreign Minister gave me last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u16	I apologise to Mr Verhoeven. I did not have that debate myself. Let me say to him immediately that the debate has taken place, that this commitment has been made and that the Foreign Minister, as agreed, will make a plea on behalf of the Brussels cabinet for the temporary cessation of the accession negotiations with Turkey. I don't think I can say much more clearly. I see that Mr Verhoeven agrees with this answer. So, with everyone's approval, I shall come back to Mr Verhoeven's first question a little later. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt's motion, co-signed by Mr Zegers and Mr Verhoeven. I think it is obvious that we share concerns about the conditions in detention centres and about post-coup events and their consequences on the rule of law of Turkey. That is why the Netherlands has welcomed the investigation by the Council of Europe Anti-Torture Committee. That's an independent investigation. Mr Omtzigt knows that, because he is himself a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The report is not yet available. The Netherlands is calling for that report to be made available soon and will continue to do so. I think we should wait and see. Mr Omtzig himself referred to the critical preliminary written statement by the Special Rapporteur on torture of the UN Human Rights Council. We have also seen the critical memorandum of the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights. However, I would like to say that this motion is premature, in the sense that independent investigations have already been carried out, but we do not yet have that report. I have also understood that this is an open source, but not a direct conversation between the cabinet and Mr Omtzigt: a tweeting with the First Vice-President of the Commission. The Commission has been asked a question. The Prime Vice President has promised that he will write a letter on how to ensure that EU money will not be used for torture. Again, that's an open source. I haven't been able to verify that myself. I'm just saying, the case is pending. We have that report from the Council of Europe and the Prime Vice-President's commitment. It is clear that the support for the judicial sector, Mr Omtzigt, and Mrs Maij had already had a little debate there, is intended to strengthen the rule of law, for example, to train prison staff in the field of human rights. We currently have no indication of the assumption in the motion that pre-accession aid would contribute to torture in Turkish prisons. Research has been done. We're awaiting disclosure of the report. I therefore consider the motion premature and therefore advise against it. I come to the visa liberalisation that Mr Verhoeven asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u17	I'll come back to my motion. The motion doesn't call for a new investigation. The Minister is right to say that, apart from the three reports to which I referred, there is a fourth, namely that of Mr Muižnieks. That report also indicates torture, so there is really more than enough reason to believe that it is taking place. I want to check whether the EU's money, which is intended to build the rule of law, is not being used for exactly the opposite. If you give 33 million to Turkey to build detention centres without checking what's happening, you're doing too little. Does the Dutch Government agree with me that we should link the spending of money to looking at the projects that have been carried out in order to determine whether this has led to torture in these projects? That is the minimum we owe both to the Turkish citizens, who are looking for a better rule of law, as Mrs Maij said, and to the EU citizens, who have paid for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u18	Of course, we want to be accountable to the citizens of the EU and to the citizens of Turkey, but it is precisely for this reason that it is important to wait for final reports if independent research is to lead to preliminary findings from, for example, the Council of Europe and the UN rapporteur. On that basis, if necessary, we can do further research. Again, I have said that the motion is premature. That's for this reason. Let's go through the whole process carefully. Mr Omtzigt is perhaps a little early in tabling his motion. This is without prejudice to the fact that we share the concerns, but I know that Mr Omtzigt knows that about us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u19	That the government is concerned, I know, but as early as 25 July, Amnesty International's first report, which I quote, appeared. All this time, the European Union has continued to pay, payment after payment for detention centres and courses, while we know that there were no courses but tortures. Now, five months later, I ask for an investigation and the government says that this is premature. She doesn't really dare say that, does she? I hope that the Turks who are now in prison do not hear this, because the government should be ashamed of this. Is the Minister not prepared to ensure that the investigation is now taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u20	I have just said that we do not have any indication at this time that the aid has been used in a way that we find reprehensible. I have also repeated that there is an investigation being conducted by the Council of Europe, in which Mr Omtzigt himself plays a role. This is an independent investigation, which will enable us to determine with each other what has happened in Turkey. We have called for this research and I think it is important that we see the results of the Council of Europe's investigation so that we can draw further conclusions on that basis. We didn't ask for that investigation for nothing. The Council of Europe is, of course, an excellent body for doing this in an independent way. So that would be my proposal. Once again, we do not have any evidence at the moment that this aid has been used for this purpose. We continue to insist on disclosure of the report. I assume that will soon become public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u21	I would ask you to continue answering the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u22	There is another question from Mr Verhoeven on the state of visa liberalisation after that report, which we discussed at Question Time on a previous occasion, was announced. The issue has been raised with the Commission. It acknowledges that the progress on the benchmarks that were actually already tapped out as popularly as..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is not a matter that will no longer be looked at. The Commission will report separately on whether or not to meet the benchmarks for Turkey's liberalisation. It is therefore work in progress with the Commission. But of course that also comes through the government to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u23	I have a small correction. It was not a tweet change, but we had an hour and a half with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, this morning. In that he promised. So that didn't happen by tweet, it just happened in a Chamber meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u24	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-08-tweedekamer-42.u25	That concludes the subject. There's been a motion. You have all heard the Minister's opinion on this. That motion will be put to the vote in ten minutes. Then we continue the debate on the elaboration of the DBA Act.
