ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. De Love has written a farewell letter, which I would like to read out: 'Dear President, dear Khadija, What were the 1,942 wonderful days! I have experienced it as particularly honorable to be a representative of the people in your Chamber. I'm happy to look back on it. As spokesperson for Culture, during the Rutte I cabinet, I was able to contribute to shaping and defending the reforms in the cultural sector. Those were fascinating debates, with well-stocked stands. My maiden speech was about the National Historical Museum. There the plug was finally pulled out, because in Arnhem it all didn't work out. Had gone to that kitchen table before The Hague, the museum would have arrived, I say as Hagenees with a wink in the direction of the minister of OCW of that time. Between those 1,942 beautiful days there were also a few lesser ones. A lot of insults came in, and sometimes a threat. Depth point was that I needed to be secured during a cultural debate during the so-called "March of Civilisation" in Rotterdam. It's an unheard-of experience. What do you mean "civilized"? As a sports spokesperson, I am proud to look back on what has been set in motion to get a safer sports climate on the Dutch fields. The time for puppies and wet keeping is over, also on the football fields. That's a win for all athletes and fans. The failure to win the Olympic Games in 2028 is a decision that hurt me. The economic conditions were not bad in 2012, I know, but my sports heart bled. I have enjoyed the treatment of the Law on the fixed book price. An outdated law that my party wanted to get rid of. There was no majority for that, so I tabled an amendment to exclude scientific books. Nor was there a majority in favour of this either, but because an unnamed group voted wrong, my amendment did. You should have seen their faces when it became clear that they had voted wrong: priceless. Born as a son of two Dutch parents who worked in London at the time, I have dual nationality. That gave me quite a bit of trouble at my installation in October 2010. On my first day in the Chamber, I discovered the power, but also the wailing of the media. And when I announced my departure, it was a hit. But in addition to some sour bits, I am also richer in some beautiful cartoons and parodyes, for which I am grateful. So that media attention has had its advantages. If only because I didn't have to tell anyone about my new job. This isn't a final goodbye. I may leave as a Member of Parliament, but you will see me wandering around this house regularly in the future. Advertisement of interest is a perfectly normal thing. Everyone does it. From charity to multinational, from environmental club to union. Members of parliament are the representatives of their electorate, the unions of their members and environmental clubs of their donors. But also the people who e-mail MPs because they are for or against something. Whether they are windmills, their own contribution to health care or immigration. The moment they send an e-mail to Members of Parliament, they are also a representative of their interests. And that's fine. It would be a great loss to our democracy if environmental clubs no longer e-mail us that they want more windmills and less coal. Or if transport companies were no longer to open their mouths about the excessive excise duties on diesel or traffic jams at the border. In short, we are all representatives of interests and there is nothing wrong with that. I think MPs can handle it just fine too. I would therefore like to make a warm plea for a certain amount of relaxation. All information from society is useful in decision-making. Whether that information comes from tree huggers or entrepreneurs. And in the end, MPs decide for themselves who they make an appointment with. Right? I would like to thank all the staff of the House of Representatives. Since 2003, when I first walked into the building, I have experienced your kindness and helpfulness as particularly pleasant. Treat them as you'd like to be treated yourself. In other words, with respect and equality. I would also like to thank my personal collaborators Marieke, Desi and Laurens for their support and advice over the last 5 years. I couldn't have done this job without them. Finally, a word of thanks to my colleagues in the VVD. Thank you for the wonderful moments, for the cosiness and above all for the warm collegiality. And how many times have we laughed when it got late because we had to stay in the house for yet another motion of censure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good luck to you."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Mr. Love, dear Bart. "Police companies are very human," you said when you became MPs. This was in October 2010, at the time of the minority cabinet-Rutte I. You were curious about that, thought it would bring a lot of dynamics. This has proved to be the case, although I believe that this dynamic under the present cabinet has not diminished. You dealt with subjects that are close to the people. In the period up to 2012 they were sports, including football law, culture and gambling. A portfolio that gave you the most fantastic work visits you've ever said, from casinos to football stadiums to theatres. Your maiden speech was indeed about the National Historical Museum, as you said in your suicide note, but what you didn't say in it is that you called it a farce, a soap opera, a Greek tragedy in that debate. You expressed the desire not to let the discussion about financing the cultural sector dominate by personal interests or taste. From 2012 you will be active in the economics portfolio, with ICT and telecoms, mail, biotechnology, greenhouse horticulture, competition and consumer policy. You committed yourself to abolishing roaming charges within the European Union, relaxing cookie legislation, phasing out a paper telephone directory and increasing consumer choice when sending mail. You asked oral questions about the identity abuse of minors on the Internet and the way Facebook and Google deal with it. It is very concrete things that have to do with our daily lives. You are also involved on a personal level. You cycled up the Alpe d'Huez in the fight against cancer and whistle weekly honorary league matches on the hockey field. Besides politicians like Jack Biskop, Achmed Marcouch and Frans Timmermans, you also found Justin Bieber by your side when you left your moustache in the context of Movember. You kept and kept in touch with the world outside the Binnenhof. In your own words, I'm and will remain involved with the people who it's about. In addition to the discussions you made, the motions you filed, not one of which was rejected, and the work visits you made to, among other things, the Grüne Woche in Berlin and the World Expo in Milan, you found the time to marry and for fatherhood. But family life or not, when you were asked to chair the plenary session, you always said yes. You obviously enjoyed it. Occasionally, you got carried away by daily human life. You can already feel it coming: in October 2014 you reopened the plenary session with the announcement that Onno Hoes and Albert Verlinde had broken up that day. Dear Bart. Today Love disappears from politics. I thought I could make that joke one more time. You move on in a world that, in a different way, is also dynamic. On behalf of the Chamber, I thank you for your commitment in recent years and wish you every success in the future. Take care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	I'm gonna suspend for a second. Then we'll move on.
