ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Today is March 8, 2016. Today is International Women's Day, the day when we reflect on the struggle that many women are still fighting day in and day out for freedom and equality, whether it is combating oppression of women or promoting equal participation in society. There is also work to be done in the Netherlands. Women spend more time on the household and on caring tasks. More often they spend their free time in the presence of their children, while men use their time at home mainly for fun activities, which in itself is nice. Is the time at home for women marked by children, the care for mother and father and the running back and forth to keep the household running? Women often feel that they are "in office." Women seem more burdened with this. Busy fathers of young children want to work less and take more care of their children, but do not. In the Netherlands we have quite traditional role patterns in 2016: father works mostly and mother cares mostly. Remember that women are now highly educated and that success does not translate into the labour market. Women are part-time champions and champion care responsibilities. In 2016, they still earn less than men for equal work, about 20%. As far as we are concerned, we no longer accept this in the Netherlands. That's why the PvdA thinks it's time to work on equal pay for women. The PvdA advocates normalizing, making a four-day workweek for young parents. How's the minister looking at this? The Chamber is going to work on my own initiative proposal on equal pay. Is the Minister prepared to draw up an action plan together with the social partners to ensure that two times four days' work for young parents who want to become the most normal thing in the world? With this we say goodbye to the old-fashioned employership and go to a modern employership.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is good that Mrs Yücel asks me these questions on 8 March, International Women's Day. For over 100 years, attention has been paid on this day to unfair differences between men and women. Unequal reward is an example of this. I know Mrs Yücel's initiative law, but I also know that the cabinet is doing the necessary work. Recently, there was a study at the colleges showing that women are often unintendedly less appreciated than men. I am very motivated to change that further. It may be good to note that young women are much smaller in differences. Especially in the government, young women earn more than men nowadays. That has everything to do with their good results in education. It is true that they are not yet translated into the labour market, and that is why there is work to be done. In the SCP report, which I myself asked for, women point out that part-time work is often necessary for them to be able to combine all responsibilities, while many men indicate that they would like to work less. Who's gonna fix that? That can only be done in common. The government has a responsibility in that. Mr Asscher has been engaged in the flexibilisation and extension of leave arrangements. Men have a responsibility in that. They are the most important allies. Not only must they say that they want to work less, but they must also put their fist on the table with their employer in order to do so. Women have a responsibility in this too, because they should be less modest and show their talents more. Of course, employers also have a responsibility to ensure good working conditions that meet the needs of today. They are flexible and they ask something from employees, even in the starting times. They also ask employers to take into account care responsibilities for children, for family care and so on. The question is how to do that. I agree with all the comments, but I see a model in which everyone has to work four days as too strict. In Sweden there is a discussion about a six-day working day. I note that we have a great deal of diversity in social forms. Apparently, I missed it. I meant a "six-day."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u3	Yes, exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u4	A six-hour working day. Let us provide some flexibility. I'd like to start the conversation with the employers. We are constantly doing this and autumn this year we are going to do this together with another work and care from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u5	Of course, I appreciate the commitment of the Cabinet and the actions it is taking to promote and investigate equal pay. The Minister rightly says that young women up to 30 years of age often earn more and work full-time or four days. But what do we see in the statistics? Once they've passed the 30, all the statistics fall. We really have a problem in the Netherlands. Public authorities should provide and facilitate support. Why do companies often ask women who expect a child if they are going to work less? Why doesn't the future father get this question from the boss? Why is the right to part-time work not made more explicit? Why is the perception from employers when leaving work to play tennis very hip and when you leave work to get your child out of crèche suddenly less hip? Young parents and families are often much more emancipated than companies. It is time for companies and government to join in even better. According to the Volkskrant this morning, the Minister says that there is also a task for municipalities. I agree. Family care should look not only at women, but also at men. Is the Minister prepared to tackle this issue together with Secretary of State Van Rijn and actively give a place to the kitchen tables held by municipalities in the context of household care? Can the Minister inform the Chamber of the outcome of these talks and the actions resulting from the discussion with the social partners on the cultural breakthrough needed from old-fashioned employership to modern employership?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u6	I fully agree with Mrs Yücel that cultural change is needed. The annoying thing about cultural change is that you can't get it done with a simple signature under a ministerial arrangement or a law. That brings talking, pushing, pulling and sometimes also asking for public attention. You need a lot of people to do that. We are very motivated, including myself, to work on that. I have made quite a tour over the past year, in which I have made concrete arrangements in the region with employers, municipalities and educational institutions to allow women, especially re-enterers and women without work experience, to take the step on the labour market. I've been with women's organizations...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u7	I'm sorry to interrupt. It's very noisy in the hall. I do not know if it has anything to do with the subject, but the Minister is almost incomprehensible, certainly not on this side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u8	I told you, we need men tremendously as allies...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u9	And listeners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u10	Without men, there will be no change. Maybe that's the most important lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u11	So I would say: if all the men in this Chamber and outside were to actually bang their fists on the table because it is time for a cultural change at the kitchen table, at the workplace, in the office garden and at all the meetings where they sit, it would really be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u12	Finally. You have 16 seconds left, Mrs. Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u13	Freedom and equality have never come on their own in history. They've always been enforced. I also expect this cabinet to put its own fist on the table to help break through the culture breakthrough. The way we organise our lives and that of our families is in full development. Modern life is ultimately designed at the kitchen table and not on the workplace floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u15	Families are ready. Now the government and the business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'd better drop the door in the house right away. The Minister is talking about a change of mind among us, men and women. All of that will be true, but does she also recognise that a change of attitude, but above all a political approach from the cabinet, is needed? My experience is, in fact, perhaps the Minister who shares this view that families, men and women, also simply need money and time to combine work and care and all to be able to share the work and care tasks fairly. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau notes that more and more people are experiencing increasing pressure. This is particularly true for women, because they carry out a great deal of family care. We feel and see that all day in, day out. They experience pressure on their income, because they earn too little and don't get hours. They experience pressure because they have to take more care of their children and their parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u17	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u18	In what way will the Minister of Emancipation ensure that it does not hinder emancipation but supports these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u19	Anyone who follows me for longer knows that I think that women's independence is very, very important. Only half of Dutch women are economically independent. I have therefore been working for years to ensure that we promote this independence. I do not do that because I believe that this should be mandatory for all women, but because it makes women and families less vulnerable if a marriage ends in divorce or if someone becomes unexpectedly unemployed or unable to work. This requires a change of attitude, and I have made agreements on this at local and regional level, with municipalities, with employers, with educational institutions and with women's organisations. I see that companies are also taking responsibility. As far as family care is concerned, I work with Mr Van Rijn, in particular to ensure that municipalities do not always look directly at women and become aware that you can involve men in family care. Businesses must also play their part in this. All this is not self-evident, but that is one of the important aspects. It is not just the care of children, but also, in particular, the care of older people that we will have to debate in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-tweedekamer-6.u20	This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
