ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. This morning the NOS unpacked with the headline: "Many Poles are still being exploited in the Netherlands." As far as I'm concerned, I had to say that "and that's why many of their Dutch colleagues are losing their jobs." They are put aside as too expensive: the painter, the carpenter, the shipbuilders and the truck driver, but they are not alone. For the same price you have two colleagues from Poland, three Bulgarians or, as we recently saw at a transport company in Limburg, four Philippines. Yes, Philippines, because those guys say yes to everything. They can't do otherwise, if only because a "no" delivers a one-way ticket to Manila, or Warsaw or Sofia. For example, people who are actually each other's colleagues are made competitors, played against each other and turned against each other. According to many people, this is happening because of the evil Brussels, with its free movement for workers, which sometimes legitimizes wrongdoings, we really have to put an end to that, but it is also happening mainly through wrong employers and shady temporary employment agencies, who earn a lot of money on the backs of hard-working people and their colleagues who are unemployed at home. Those employers and temporary employment agencies need to be dealt with as hard as possible. That's what's gonna happen. For example, with the Law's approach to bogus constructions, attracting additional labour market inspectors, better cooperation with trade unions, stronger penalties and tighter, other Brussels regulations have taken more steps than ever in this cabinet period. But there's more to it. Things like this have affected the support of the European Union and have affected that support. As I said, they turn employees who are actually colleagues against each other. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she agrees. Above all, what will the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who she is replacing today, do about this in order to turn the tide?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Kerstens, of course, I believe that this kind of thing does not give a pass at all. This research has played between 2012 and 2015. Since 2015, of course, a lot has happened again. Last year, the Minister agreed on an improvement package, including with the temporary agency industry. There are a large number of measures in this regard. The Fake Constructions Act has come into force; that includes chain liability. The label of the industry is, of course, also a very strong point of attention. There are also more inspectors carrying out inspections at the workplace. So much has happened, but of course there is still a lot to be done. We see that the workers' organisations do not immediately support the label. The Minister therefore intends to inform the Chamber before the summer of how he intends to proceed in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	I would like to comment on the situation in the broadcasting sector, because this morning's news shows that there is a great deal wrong there in particular. That is because flex, of course, is no longer just a "peak and sick" but is just an even cheaper way to get people to work for you. The Secretary of State has already indicated that in the past it was assumed that the temporary agency industry would take care of it all properly. A label and certification system have been developed, but over time it has become clear that this is not helping. The temporary agency industry is apparently unable to get its own house in order, even if it is because temporary agency clubs do not control their own members, because the vast majority of temporary agency agencies are not members of these temporary agency clubs at all and because it is a piece of cake to start a temporary agency. As a result, there are now 36,000 temporary employment agencies. Does the Secretary of State see that this really has to be different? Is the cabinet ready to finally tackle the temporary agency industry and take the lead itself? This is urgently needed if we are to end the exploitation of foreign colleagues, unfair competition against companies which do respect the rules and the repression of Dutch workers, who are suddenly supposed to be too expensive. And that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Of course, the answer to this question is yes. At an earlier stage, self-regulation was indeed chosen, with a private label combined with public-private cooperation and controls by the Inspectorate SZW and the Tax Administration. That's already paying off. But I just said it even though it's important that you go through with it. That's what the Minister wants. He wants to report to the Chamber for the summer how he thinks he's gonna handle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	Just a little while longer. I welcome the last remark made by the Secretary of State. Of course, I would have preferred to have talked to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment here, because he is talking about it. We have also had many debates with the Minister on preventing exploitation, unfair competition and repression. I even see parties here that are never in those debates and sometimes vote against laws that we adopt here in order to achieve that honest work. I ask, through the Secretary of State, if the Minister, if he is still in the pen, to join the Chamber as soon as possible in any other measures he intends to take to put an end to these abuses and to prevent people who are colleagues from seeing each other as competitors and blaming each other for things that are over their heads, over their backs, by wrong employment agencies and employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	I think I can certainly say on behalf of the Minister that if he sends the letter to the Chamber, he will also outline the package he intends to continue to colour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	I can only support Mr Kerstens when he says that the unorganised temporary employment agencies must be dealt with. He was also quite right to point out that the workers' organisations are questioning the current quality mark. My question is this. In the short term, we will be told what measures the Minister is going to take. Is he therefore going to discuss with the trade unions how this can be done in a good way, so that "equal work is equal pay" and that workers are not played out against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would also like to answer Mrs Voortman's question with 'yes'. As workers' organisations no longer fully support the label, a new situation has emerged. I know that it is precisely for this reason that the Minister sits down with the trade union movement, so that he can tell the Chamber before the summer recess what is being brought forward from the trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	If I go to the Chamber of Commerce tomorrow and say that I started a temp agency, I will be accepted without much control. Since this is possible, so for more than ten years now, we have about 3,000 to 6,000 crooked employment agencies every year. The cabinet keeps saying, "We're gonna do something about it." But it always doesn't do anything! So I'm asking the Secretary of State if she's planning to re-introduce a system of permits so that you can only start a temporary employment agency with paperwork. If you don't have those papers, it's fine, never start again. It's very simple. You have to deal with it radically and not come back with letters. I expect the letter to announce the broadcasting licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u11	I understand Mr Ulenbelt's question. Until 1998, there was a licensing system. We have to note that this too did not work out on all fronts equally cheerfully in the field of malice, so to speak. However, I am strongly convinced that in the letter I mentioned, the Minister will also indicate whether he sees the added value of a licensing system and, if so, how. I'll pass this on to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
