ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Eleven weeks ago, on behalf of a majority in this Chamber, namely the groups of the VVD, the SP and the CDA, I asked written questions about dubious funding flows from countries such as Kuwait and Saudi Arabia to religious organisations in the Netherlands, but also about the role of this cabinet. That was 11 weeks ago; 11 weeks of deafening silence. That is strange, because this type of funding is used by these countries to increase their influence on local communities. It often has a negative effect on integration. Sometimes it even leads to heightened contradictions. So you would expect more urgency and more action from the cabinet. I see that action in the Chamber, and I have seen it for years. Last week, during the General Political Reviews, there was a motion from the Christian Union and the VVD on exactly this subject. The funny thing is, the cabinet pretends to share concerns all the time. The cabinet says all the time that it would love to have a look at these dubious funding flows. Literally, the Minister for Social Affairs said "no' when I asked during the debate in May 2016 if his ministry was kept informed of these flows of money. No. I'll see you last July. Then this minister informed the Chamber that the cabinet is indeed informed by the Gulf States about funding flows to religious institutions in the Netherlands. How is it that the Chamber has been asking for this for years and the cabinet has always denied it? Why does the Minister admit in his letter of 5 July to be aware of this, while denying it two months before? I have a few specific questions for the Minister. Since when do Saudi Arabia and Kuwait consult the government on funding flows to religious institutions in the Netherlands? What agreements have been made on this? Why did the minister say he wasn't and then he did? Is it true that the government has had a list of institutions funded by Saudi Arabia since 2013? Is the Minister prepared to share this list with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr Sjoerdsma's annoyance, quite frankly. I'll divide the answers into three levels. Firstly, the general point for which the Chamber has indeed asked a great deal of attention: how do we deal with foreign financing? A motion was passed on this matter last week. Everyone realises that this is a sensitive and complex subject, because on the one hand it is about freedom of religion and on the other hand it is about avoiding radicalisation. The cabinet is in the process of making a well-founded, new story about this. During the General Reviews, the Prime Minister agreed that the letter should be available in mid-October. Secondly, the Chamber still has an answer to questions about the building in Rotterdam and Qatar. Mr Sjoerdsma has asked questions about this before. We're working on that. As we know, we are trying to prevent this club from working on that property. Here too, we will inform the Chamber of exactly how we have done this, with all the ins and outs. Thirdly, an overview of foreign financing has been requested and what has been exchanged with the Chamber. I said in July that the Chamber would be informed. That hasn't happened yet, but it should have. I have not had an opportunity to speak to my colleague Mr Koenders on this matter. I admit I'll make sure the Chamber has that overview as soon as I get a hold of him. This is indeed an overview from 2013 of institutions here that have applied for funding there. So it is not an overview of funding provided, but a list of institutions that have asked for funding in Saudi Arabia. I'll get the Chamber to look at that in a week. That should have been done before, because I promised on 5 July. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked about the overall overview. We don't have one. There is no record of funding from abroad. That also makes sense, because this is not mandatory anywhere; it is just allowed. However, countries sometimes exchange information about traffic between countries, about funding, about gifts and so on. So there are also opportunities to try to remove the gifts you don't want. That is separate from the legislation on terrorist financing, because it is simply forbidden, and once we see that it is frozen and stopped. But there is every reason to look again at the general policy regarding the financing of religious institutions from abroad, also in view of last week's motion of Christian Union and VVD. We will be talking about this in mid-October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	I thank the Minister for saying that it should have happened sooner. I think that's a nice concession. At the same time, July was not the first time that the Chamber asked for this, because it has been asking for this for years. It's not just the list I've just been referring to that's being asked. I would also like to thank the Minister for the promise that the list will be sent to the Chamber; I think that this is positive. It is also asked that countries such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait should consult this cabinet on spending money on behalf of religious organizations in the Netherlands. I actually want an answer to that today. I would like to know whether the cabinet is being consulted, since when, what agreements have been made and why this minister and other ministers always deny that this is happening, when the Chamber asks for it, which happens very often. That's my first question. My second question concerns the list. I wonder why it's been held back so long. RAND researchers and journalists have been able to see that list while we have to wait weeks here in the Chamber before we get an answer. I'd like to receive that list this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	I've already agreed to that. Once again, I think that Mr Sjoerdsma has a point. We talked about that in July. I think I was also able to replace my colleague in answering oral questions at the time, because I am often lucky. I am therefore particularly concerned that I am now facing Mr Sjoerdsma again and that it has not happened. We'll fix that in a week. His other question is much more about that there is no registration or definite process. Nor can I exclude the fact that there is talk of funding in diplomatic contacts. In fact, I could very well imagine that. In those diplomatic contacts, you can also ask a question. "Is it true that Rotterdam is funded from that and that club? We don't really think that's so desirable." There will then be no consultation or a protocol on which there will be agreement. However, it is an opportunity to prevent unwanted funding. I am also listening to the wishes of the Chamber, which was expressed last week and earlier: freedom of religion must of course be respected and, of course, there should not be a total ban on money flows between the Netherlands and other countries, but try, however difficult that is, to prevent unwanted influence bought from abroad. That is exactly what the cabinet wants, but it is incredibly complicated in practice. The Prime Minister has therefore also promised during the General Reviews that we will come up with a letter on this in mid-October. Will everyone be happy? Undoubtedly not, but it will at least enable us to have a fundamental debate on where we lay the line between what we do and what we do not accept from abroad. Terrorist financing: in any case excluded. Innocent money flows between citizens of different countries: of course allowed. We must draw a line between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	Now we are again trapped in that verbal word game of Minister Asscher. He says: you can't rule out the talk of funding in diplomatic traffic. But I ask the Minister something quite different: does he exclude that the Netherlands, this cabinet in which this minister is present, is formally consulted by countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and other Gulf States on the financing of religious institutions? Is that happening, or isn't it? That's quite another thing than: you can ask a question in diplomatic traffic. No, is it being submitted to this cabinet? I would like the Minister to be ready for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	As far as I know, this is not being done, but in order to rule that out, I really have to consult Mr Koenders, because contacts with other countries run through his department and administration. I am not aware of that, but I will ask him to include this in his reply to Mr Sjoerdsma's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u7	This round of questions shows that we are not distracted by the Minister, who does not answer Mr Sjoerdsma's questions, but that this whole debate is not the debate that it should be. The debate is not about salafism or wahabism, because that is only a distraction from what is at stake. If you know Islam, you know it's a state-dangering and democratic-undermining ideology. It is not about funding religious organisations, but about funding these ideological organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u8	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u9	The conclusion must be that my question is right behind that: not just a few money flows should be mapped out, but that all mosques in the Netherlands should be closed. Does the Minister share my opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u10	No. Together with about the entire Chamber, this cabinet tries to ensure the best possible security of the Netherlands, to counter radicalisation, to stop extravagants and to fight terror. That's what our services and the military are for, and that's what the security department is for. We'll take care of the policy as well. In the meantime, we have adopted numerous laws to strengthen our response to terrorism and radicalisation. Now the PVV, Mr. De Graaf's party, says: let's use the police to remove Korans from bedrooms. That will not contribute to safety in the Netherlands, any more than closing all mosques. It is necessary to distinguish between those with criminal intentions who want to commit terrorism and those who want to turn against the Dutch rule of law and those peaceful Dutch people who have a book in their bedroom that Mr De Graaf does not like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u11	I understand that the Minister is eagerly using the idea between the NOS and Mr Van Haersma Buma, but our voter is not buying it and the PvdA voter is not buying it either. I therefore ask him not to use that frame, because that is not going to do him any good, not even if he is perhaps running for the PvdA's list leader. Islam is not Mr Asscher's biodanza club. It's not that. Islam is a state-dangering and democratic-undermining ideology, in which you can radicalise. That ideology undermines our rule of law. A minister must be able to recognise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u13	So I repeat my question, which I do not want to hear back Mr Van Haersma Buma's little phrase. I want a serious answer from the Minister, because he's going around it again. He's doing the same thing to me as he just did to Mr Sjoerdsma. Once again, the voter will pay him on 15 March 2017. I say: just give the people of the Netherlands a straight answer; close those mosques.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u14	Let us now take the people of the Netherlands seriously. I hear something about conspiracy theories with Mr Van Haersma Buma and the NOS and you name it, but I will leave that on Mr De Graaf's behalf. What's going on? We have the problem in the Netherlands and Europe that there are people who want to turn against the rule of law and peaceful democratic society. We need to know that in time. One of the concerns is financing extremist ideologies from countries that we like much less, without a rule of law and freedom similar to ours, and the influence that is bought with them. This will have to be countered with respect for the Dutch rule of law. It's a serious problem. That is why I have always acknowledged to Mr Sjoerdsma that we have waited too long to provide information to which the Chamber is entitled. That is something I am quite clear about. The problem is not simple, however, because where do you draw the line? What kind of funding do you allow and which one doesn't? We will have a very solid debate on this with the Chamber. Does closing all mosques, as Mr De Graaf wishes, contribute to this? The answer is no. Mr De Graaf knows that and all the Dutch he calls upon know that. The example of banning the book does not come from me, the NOS or Mr Van Haersma Buma on 15 March in mind, but comes from the PVV itself. If you think you're increasing security by banning books and closing all mosques, you don't do any service to the Dutch people and you miss the seriousness of this problem. It is a serious security problem with a serious risk: a substantial threat of terror. That's what serious answers are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it is important to point out in a point of order that "the conspiracy" supposedly being discussed was Mr Buma's question to the PVV whether it was really intended to hunt down the police to get Korans out of people's homes and the affirmative answer from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you.
