ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Private conversations of thousands of Dutch people have come into the hands of an Australian tech company: thousands of fragments of telephone and chat conversations including taxi drivers here in The Hague. This was discovered by chance by a Dutchman who worked for the Australian company through Britain and suddenly heard the voice of her Dutch ex-boyfriend among the thousands of audio fragments. So it turned out that thousands of fragments of phone and chat conversations had ended up at that company in Australia. Of course, no consent has ever been given by the persons concerned to share this personal communication. That is bizarre; it is unreal and it is a gross violation of the privacy of many Dutch people. Apparently, even our most sensitive conversations with friends, family and lovers aren't safe. Of course, intelligence and security services tap our communications, store those data, analyze them and share them around the world. We knew that, but we didn't know that it was done by commercial companies that had nothing to do with the intelligence and domestic security searches associated with that data. Of course, this just can't happen. I think everyone agrees on that. It's got to be figured out to the bottom. My question to the Secretary of State is actually very simple. How did this Australian tech company get thousands of Dutch private conversations? Are there intelligence agencies involved in this data trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. With these questions by Mr Verhoeven, Question Time does honour its name, but I do not have any answers for him. It's a curious article. I am as curious as Mr Verhoeven about the way things are going. We have taken the necessary steps to see if we could get some clarification on a few points. We've asked our own investigation services if they had anything to do with it. The answer was very clear no. We have asked the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the ACM if they have had a notification, although this took place before entering the reporting obligation data leaks. The answer to that was very conscientious, but I can't get much further. It was said that if we had that, we would not be reporting it now, because we do not assume adoption-and-shaming. I will not give the impression that this is a satisfactory response, because of course it is not an answer to the questions put by Mr Verhoeven. I think that after reading that article more Dutch people at least want us as a government to do our best to find out the answer, as far as we can find out. That's what I'd like to say. I cannot guarantee in advance that we will reach the bottom, because there are many assumptions in the article that I do not know where the path leads. We are prepared to look into it further and to inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	Sometimes, as a member of parliament, you're surprised at the honesty of the cabinet. I have to say that in this case it does more to me than the Secretary of State says: it is not so bad; we are working on it and you will hear from us. I would like to make an appointment in this Question Time and ask a number of supplementary questions, with answers which I hope can be included in the response of the Secretary of State. How did those private conversations end up there? Who collected them and passed them on? Which telecom providers are involved? Are there intelligence services involved, the Dutch, the British or other intelligence services? On the question of whether it can be ruled out that Dutch services are involved, the State Secretary took a stand because of the limited information that services provide. Are there any state secrets involved? I think that is a valid point. When can the Secretary of State come to the Chamber with that information or at least a response to these questions? Is that possible before November 1st? It is good if we can talk about this seriously in the budgetary procedure or at any other time. It is an incident, but it is linked to the way intelligence services, security services and government policy are developing. I would like to receive an additional response to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	In any case, I can promise you that we at Security and Justice will include some of the questions in our investigation. We can find out who was involved, how things turned out and what companies might be involved. That's what we're gonna do our best to do. I will discuss the other part of the questions with my colleague on services. Not to be silly, but I don't know those things from my position and I don't have permission to. So I can't answer that. But I think it is relevant questions, which we will also pass on. We will try to answer the questions in full and at least have them come to the Chamber for our budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you for that. It's nice to have the cabinet on our side. I want to crack one critical note. It is a good thing that the cabinet is now saying that it is going to react to it, but at the same time the cabinet itself is working on all kinds of laws that can hinder the privacy and security of our citizens. I am thinking of the hacking law, the tapping law, the storage of passenger data, registration and the law on retention, which has been fired by the EU Court of Justice. These legislative proposals could lead to more incidents of this kind in the future, with data, personal communication, personal information and the personal conversations of citizens coming to many more foreign bodies. This could lead to further violations of the privacy and security of thousands and perhaps millions of Dutch people. I do not want to say that it is a great tragedy, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State the following. In the light of this incident, will he, together with the Minister of Security and Justice, once again take a very critical look at the consequences of a number of legislative proposals and the policies of his own ministry? Otherwise, we will be focusing too much only on incidents, while you will also have to look at the structural path that the cabinet is taking, and the possibilities and consequences thereof. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	There are several dilemmas here. One of the reasons why I'm reluctant to investigate malicious people who want to take away their privacy is that the government has very few powers to pursue those evil ones. Privacy is not just between the Dutch and the government. It is also the possibility with which the government is able to protect the privacy of citizens from malicious people who want to access or damage their data. We will, for example, come back extensively on the balance between yourself in the handling of the law on computer crime III to protect against people who can access your stuff.That's why I'm a big fan of encryption and the government that can't get too much into people's information but needs powers to protect Dutch people from other evildoers. These evildoers are also online and can violate privacy, with even greater consequences, of which what we discussed today may be an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	Of course, this is too embarrassing for words. Thousands of Dutch private conversations have probably been stolen by the American or English secret service and sold to a commercial company in Australia. And now we have a secretary of state here who says he has no idea what's going on either. He says: our government and secret service do not know; perhaps we should find out and I will try to do so for the budget. It's just embarrassing how the Secretary of State stands here. Has the Secretary of State of England been asked for clarification? Has the United States Secretary of State been asked for clarification? Has Australia's Interior Minister been asked for clarification? What did the Secretary of State do? Thousands of private conversations, stolen by secret services, have been channeled to a commercial company and the Secretary of State has come to tell me, yes, I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	Perhaps Mr Van Raak's life would be enriched if he took a more socratic attitude and simply admitted that he doesn't know things, rather than things that are not at all certain and that we have yet to examine, explain to reality, to draw conclusions from them and then to tell who to appeal to. If Mr Van Raak does that, okay, but it doesn't fit me in my role as Secretary of State. I therefore remain reluctant to do so. If I don't know what's going on, I'd rather say it and let you figure it out than pretend with misplaced toughness I already know how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	It's a credit to the Secretary of State for admitting honestly that he doesn't know. Is he actually making the announcement to all Dutch people that you want to keep something private, something that is even a little sensitive, that you can no longer discuss on the phone in the Netherlands? I heard the Secretary of State say he's a fan of encryption. Does this mean he says that if you have anything that's anything more private than "I'll be home at 6:00 p.m., the potatoes are already up?', You better use apps like Threema or Signal because they have end-to-end encryption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	That's not what I'm saying. I'm a fan of encryption. At the same time, you do not have to depend on it and other people should not violate your privacy. It is also prohibited by law to tap certain communications if you have no rights to do so. It is certainly forbidden for companies to act in it. So I would say that people should report it to us if they think there's something going on and if they think it's a criminal offence. Report it to the Personal Data Authority if you think your data has been leaked or abused. Then the government has more information and is also better able to have not only rules that guarantee privacy, but also to enforce those rules. In this way, we can ensure that we can deal with people who want to harm privacy and prevent them from continuing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u11	Now I'm kind of leaning towards Mr Van Raak's tone. How can anyone know that their data is used by a commercial company? If this lady hadn't happened to recognize her ex-wife, we never would have known about this. Who knows how many messages addressed to exes are used by all kinds of other commercial companies. The Secretary of State says honestly that he doesn't know. In doing so, he tells all Dutch people that he absolutely cannot guarantee the privacy of their phone calls in the Netherlands. So the advice is: pay attention, you don't have privacy on your phone calls in the Netherlands right now and your only other option is to use a very well encrypted app. Is that right or is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, that's not right. People who know things or have a strange signal, I call on them to report it. Then we all know more and we can also deal with it. I can never give absolute guarantees for anything anyway. I don't even do that for soft cyber. Absolute guarantees never exist. That is why it remains hard for anyone on the right side to share information about evildoers who want to abuse privacy, whether they be companies, criminals or other governments. Then you have to work together to describe the information you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u13	To begin with, I'm very happy to hear that the Chamber is beginning to get through what privacy actually means when your data ends up somewhere you wouldn't want to. My question to the Secretary of State concerns the data currently available to foreign parties. How is it possible for Dutch citizens to recover this data and actually use the right to be forgotten in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u14	We will also take that into account in the letter the Chamber receives. It presupposes that we first know exactly who has what information. It's just a question of whether we're gonna get the finger on that, but we're gonna do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. We're gonna vote later.
