ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Klein. He is in trade K and he is supported by Mrs Lentine Schouten from the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and Mrs Carline Hansen, assistant to Mr Klein. I welcome them, too. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be scheduled at a later date, in consultation with the initiator. We've put a little bit on the list of speakers. I am happy to give Mr Taverne the floor first. He speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and has 12 minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr President, that is a calm idea. Thank you. Moreover, it demonstrates the importance of the VVD Group's initiative legislative proposals, especially with regard to our electoral system. I congratulate Mr Klein on that. I would also like to thank, through the chairman, the staff who helped him. After all, as has been said, it is always good for a Member of Parliament to use the right of initiative. That is the particular privilege we have as co-legislator. I would also like to thank the Minister for the Interior, who has taken his place in trade union K, for his presence. I think I speak on behalf of all of us when I say that we are very pleased that he can take his place there again. In elections, according to our Election Act, you don't vote for a party. You vote for a person who has joined a political party. If you live in Groningen, you can choose someone from Groningen. If you live in Hoevelaken and you happen to know the initiator, you could vote for the initiator during the last parliamentary elections. Because you don't just choose a politician. You also choose your people's representative, someone who knows your city, village or maybe even street and knows what's going on and what's going on and what's going on. At present, it is possible for political parties to decide for themselves how to promote regional distribution on their lists. For example, a party in each constituency can submit a different list of regional candidates or, as my party does, submit a single list with a good regional distribution of candidates. On the one hand, you have parties that do not attach any importance to regional distribution on their lists. These parties deprive people of the opportunity to choose someone from their own region. On the other hand, you wanted to make the regional distribution mandatory if necessary, for example by re-establishing a district system. The VVD is not in favour of that, by the way. Although the VVD sees the importance of regional distribution on electoral lists, it considers that the parties themselves should be able to choose the way in which they intend to regulate and promote it. In addition, the VVD considers that new parties should be able to demonstrate that they can count on support in all parts of the Netherlands. It is therefore a good thing that the Election Act requires new political groups to submit 30 declarations of support per constituency. That sounds like a lot, but it's already less than there were. In 1999, the number of declarations of support was reduced from 50 to 30 per constituency. In the initiator's proposal, the total number of declarations of support will remain the same, but it does not matter where they come from anymore. After all, there are no more electoral circles. I can imagine all kinds of reasons why that is good or even practical and perhaps even why it is practical for the initiator, at least it will not be bad for him, if his initiative would be taken into law now that he himself has indicated that he wants to participate in a new political group in the Dutch Parliamentary elections in 2017. Let me say that it will be easier for new political groups to participate in elections after the adoption of the bill. The initiator writes in the note following the report: "The starting point for initiator is that our electoral system is taken seriously. This means that initiator assumes that only parties that seriously intend to obtain seats in the Lower House will participate in elections." I do wonder how seriously our electoral system is taken when more than 30, 40 or 50 parties submit a list later because they happen to be able to collect 580 declarations of support in their own municipality. Does the initiator consider that this is a desirable situation? I am already getting many e-mails from people who, through the trees, no longer see the forest of all the different party initiatives. I have one more question for the initiator, now on the last letter of amendment. It adds more or less who deserves credit to the recently rejected Bosma amendment to the proposal in different terms. The bottom line is that in future all parties will be allowed to place 80 candidates on their list. I wonder, now that there is no new ballot from the Minister and there will be 30 lists of 80 candidates each, how the initiator thinks about the manageability of the ballot. How does the initiator weigh up the objections raised earlier by the Election Board in its opinion on the Bosma amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u3	That leads to a question from Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u4	That was a very good amendment; I remember it. It stipulated that all parties could submit a list with 80 names on it. Now you have to have more than 15 seats in the Chamber to put 80 names on a list. If you have 15 seats or less, your list should not exceed 50. That is a strange form of discrimination. Moreover, there is so much volatility in the electoral market that small parties are growing and vice versa. It was a very good amendment, but the VVD voted against. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u5	In particular, because the legislative proposal to which it was pending was not the most obvious. I share Mr Bosma's view that, given the volatility of the electorate, it may not always be obvious to take the size of a group as a starting point for new electoral lists. So I understand the considerations. However, in view of a number of developments in recent months, including our voting process and the failure to continue with a number of proposed innovations, I am concerned about how the initiator looks at this issue, which is part of his proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u6	That's not an answer! I am simply asking why Mr Taverne voted as he voted and then he comes up with 'I like to hear from Mr Klein what he thinks'. No, I want to know why Mr Taverne's group voted against this wonderful amendment of mine that should counter discrimination. Just answer that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u7	I repeat my answer: this amendment was very unfamiliar with the proposal on which it was based. I can't say it any simpler than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u8	That's gonna trigger something. What if I did it again now, does Mr Taverne think it is specific to this proposal? If so, is he inclined to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u9	When it comes to this, the VVD Group will re-evaluate that on its merits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Klein. As a one-man group, there is a lot coming at you and then it is all the more handsome and admirable that there is an initiative legislative proposal from Mr Klein. So it's an achievement in itself! The Tickets Act is in urgent need of revision. The Election Council said it as follows: "The Election Act is partly based on outdated concepts, is unclear, at least not consistent in some respects, and contains unnecessary obstacles to the rapid, accurate and efficient conduct of the electoral process." Not a word of French, I'd say. The Minister, however, keeps to the old. That's too bad. The electoral circles are such a part of the law that one may wonder if it is still up to the time. Where in the past the electoral lists were still very different from one constituency to another, they are now very similar or are at all the same throughout the country. Choosing lists may also be longer and longer. The chance that you would exhaust the list at rapid growth is therefore strongly shrunk. It's gonna get us some extra work. The necessary formalities must be carried out in all electoral circles rather than at the centre. In the election of the European Parliament, we are already working with one constituency. The need for this has therefore been reduced, but is there sufficient justification for abolishing it? Honestly, I don't know yet. That is why I have a few questions for Mr Klein. What, according to the initiator, has been the result of unfair results from the electoral circles in recent elections? How do they relate to the benefits of regional lists? The use of electoral circles is still taking place in other elections, as the initiator acknowledges. Often they are list pushers, but it can also give more local or regional color to the list to set up people who are recognized and accessible. That strengthens democracy, and that is very important. In newly merged municipalities we see that recognition is important. Candidates are clearly expressing their core views and the background they take with them. Voters take that in their voices. You can also see a trend across the Netherlands. The neighbourhood and the region are gaining in importance, not only because of the decentralisation of public authority, but also in the connection people feel with their immediate surroundings. Why, then, is Mr Klein now proposing to delete the possibility of this regional link? Can that be sufficiently captured with longer electoral lists? What is more clear for the electorate: an electoral list of 80 people or a shorter list that differs from one region to another? I'd also like to get a response from the Minister. I also have a few specific questions for the Minister. How many parties have used different lists per constituency in recent years? How many candidates around what place on the list were they? How many votes did they get? Did any of them get anywhere near the electoral threshold? Is there any electoral research showing why people voted for that candidate? Can the Minister comment on the workload for the main polling stations if this proposal were to become law? I will take the answers to my group to discuss them there. For the moment, I think it is very important that these technical questions are answered in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing the appreciation, on behalf of the SGP, for the many work done by Mr Klein in the area of own-initiative legislation. That is a very good thing. It is to be commended that he is active in this as a small group. That is why we are happy to see him. The amendment of the Tickets Act is often politically sensitive. Mr Klein has put forward a proposal which, at least at first glance, is less politically loaded. It is about abolishing the electoral circles. This would be particularly practical and would be a reason for reducing the administrative burden. For the SGP, there are four priority issues in this proposal: firstly, the historical value of constituencies, secondly, the possibility of giving regional representatives, thirdly, the simplification of the system and fourthly, the possible other consequences of this proposal. First of all, I should like to ask the question: why these electoral circles? The present electoral circles are a result of the introduction of the proportional representation system in 1917. With these electoral circles, the possibility of submitting regional lists was expressly chosen to ensure that a certain link between voters and elected representatives would continue to exist. We must not forget that the whole system was rebuilt from the district system. Especially since the list could then contain up to ten candidates, this was necessary for the parties with more representatives in parliament. Otherwise the list would soon be exhausted. According to the Constitutional Commission, these electoral circles were above all a guarantee at the time, and that is very nice to see against a central leadership and against a stronger centralisation than is desired. It is precisely in order to ensure the decentralised nature that those electoral circles were set up at the time. A fair assessment of this point must be that, historically speaking, the electoral circles certainly have or have had their function, but in practice the nomination is entirely a matter for the national political parties themselves. I come to the point of the regional candidates. The argument remains that there is the possibility of a regional distribution of candidates by the electoral circles. That is also what you think about in terms of content in the most recent Parliamentary elections. Partly this will also be motivated by the risk of list exhaustion. This risk was certainly high when there were only 30 candidates on the list for smaller parties, but even with the current number of 50 candidates, it is still possible that the list is exhausted at some point. Should this proposal succeed, it is in any case a good thing that the letter of amendment allows all parties to award up to 80 candidates. That point has just been discussed in the interruption. However, regional candidates are mainly used by the parties to express their regional roots. In this sense, therefore, the original intention of the electoral circles no longer has the meaning and function it has had. Mr Klein has opted for a somewhat double approach here. On the one hand, he says that people think less in regions. On the other hand, it appears that there are candidates who are mostly candidates for regional elections and who are therefore placed on the list. It is also conceivable that such a candidate will reach the preferred threshold, even if he or she is only on the list in one region. We have examples of this, even in the last elections. At this point, the present electoral circles seem to offer an opportunity to make some variation possible. One could say that this point is more in favour of maintaining the present electoral circles than of abolishing them. Although, in practice, the parties make sufficient or frequent use of the regional distribution of the candidates on the list, the difference in electoral circles does indeed make it necessary to do so. If a party is only active in a particular province, for example Friesland or Limburg. I mention only some provinces....................................................................................................................................................................... The question is, does this make sense? I would like to hear Mr Klein's reflection on this, and also that of the Minister for the Interior. The next item is simplification. It is quite clear that the proposed legislative amendment at least represents a clear simplification for our electoral system. The allocation of seats becomes clearer. In our view, however, the practical consequences will not be so great. A person who is on one list and has been elected with preferred votes has always been given a seat, unless too many people have been elected with preferred votes, but that is not so common in practice. For the remaining candidates, the exact number of votes is not, in a way, legally relevant. So it is not such a problem when a seat is assigned to someone while another has just received a few more votes. I come to a conclusion, but I would like to take a look at the other practical consequences. In most regions it will not make much difference in the implementation of the polling stations, because there is often already one constituency per province. But what does this mean for the polling stations in North and South Holland? The workload in these polling stations is increasing considerably, as three or four constituencies are merged. I'd like to hear how the initiator feels about these consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. Speak mild words, Mr Bishop said to me in passing. There is always a civilising effect of the fraction of the SGP. I understand that Mr Van Raak has signed up for one minute. I'll see if I can keep it even shorter. Of course, like everyone else, I would like to congratulate the colleague who made this bill. I have a few practical, simple questions. Mr Klein is talking about reducing administrative burdens, which will occur if this law is adopted. What exactly does it consist of? Is it so complicated, and it takes so many people to have those constituencies? What work will disappear? I come to the element of regional distribution. The colleague from D66 just said that regions are gaining importance in the Netherlands. I do not think so, but I would like to hear what Mr Klein thinks about that. We don't have to set up sociological trees about it, but in every mall I see the same shops and chains appear nowadays and regional accents disappear. In my view, therefore, the importance of regions is falling, but perhaps the CDA colleague will have a very different opinion on this. I would like to hear a reflection from the author. What does he think of this element? Then there's the threshold of signatures. Let us not forget that Mr Klein is a split-off. He's going to join his brilliant party in the upcoming parliamentary elections. There's a lot of parties and lots of parties going on, I understand, so it's gonna be a huge crowd. When my party first participated, in 2006, a lot of signatures had to be collected. That was a huge logistics operation. You need 30, and 29 isn't enough, so you have to pick up twice as much. That puts a threshold. I cannot escape the impression that Mr Klein has no use at all in such a threshold, and that he wants to do it a lot easier and not want to finish all those provinces. Does that play a role? That's what I'm questioning in my suspicions. And isn't it easier for all the parties to join, because we're not going to need those signatures from all those electoral circles anymore, when we might want them to have some sort of proof that they have some people in the country, organize something and so on? Isn't it going to be too easy for parties and lucky seekers to join? Then I would also like to hear Mr Klein talk about the strange border that is now in place. Parties with 15 seats or less in the Lower House may only place 50 people on their lists. Bigger parties can put 80 people on the list. That is a strange and old-fashioned way of discrimination. I would like to point out that we have recently had new colleagues. Mr Van der Ree of the VVD was number 56 on the list and Mrs Asante, who was recently sworn in, was on list 50. The subject of 'list exhaustion', which Mr Bishop introduced, I did not know that word, is therefore something that we must take into account. What is Mr Klein's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u13	You haven't quite managed to do it in one minute. For the Acts, I would mention that Mrs Asante was number 50 and not list 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr Klein and his two collaborators for submitting this initiative legislative proposal. As my colleagues have just said, we know that it is not always easy for small groups to do so. The CDA is a broad popular party that has always had an eye for regional distribution of candidates across the country. So what Mr Bosma just said is correct. The CDA is indeed in favour of regional diversification. That is why the CDA Group is not in favour of abolishing the electorate. On the contrary, the CDA would like to strengthen the regional element in the electoral system. According to the CDA Group, the initiator is mainly concerned with simplifying the arrangements for declarations of support, as Mr Bosma has just said. However, the CDA Group sees this proposal as more of a basic choice of abolishing any possibility of taking into account regional candidacy through separate lists. The initiator cites the report of the advisory committee setting up election process, so the report of the committee Korthals Altes. In particular, it refers to the safeguards that the Commission lays down for the electoral process, including integrity, accountability and transparency. Can the initiator indicate exactly where the Corthals Altes Committee is critical of the existence of electoral circles? What is in the report on the existence of electoral circles? The initiator relies on the support of the Association of Dutch Municipalities for his proposal. The UNG states that this legislative amendment makes electoral system more transparent and more controllable. The initiator apparently did not read the entire letter from the VNG, because the VNG also points to the additional work for the main voting offices in the provincial capitals. Does the initiator have a response to the following comment from the VNG: "What is the need to ensure that these municipalities are provided with sufficient resources to carry out this additional work?' The initiator points to the opaque allocation of seats as an undesirable side effect of the existence of constituencies. In this context, he again uses the terms "unrighteous" and "in violation of the will of the electorate." Can the initiator explain the meaning of these terms again? On what criteria does he say that it is unjust or contrary to the will of the electorate? Does he believe that it is fair or at least not contrary to the will of the electorate as a candidate on whom 3.511 votes have been cast to withdraw a seat from a political group? Or is a little modesty appropriate in that case? In other words, why is the withdrawal of a seat from a political group in the eyes of the initiator not a problem and allocation of a seat to another candidate from the same political group? I'm coming to the end of my input. Once again, the CDA Group attaches great importance to the regional distribution of candidates. The CDA Group therefore attaches importance to maintaining the possibility of submitting different lists or tail lists in electoral circles. That is what my party is doing in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, a compliment to the initiator. It is always to be appreciated when a Member of the Chamber takes up this task and comes forward with an initiative legislative proposal. Let me be honest: so much for the compliments, because I still have the necessary questions about the legislative proposal. The explanatory statement states that in practice the electoral circles no longer have any real effect and that the original functions of electoral circles hardly play a role in current discussions. The initiator also indicates that the political parties in the elections do not come up with regionally different lists and that only regional candidates are not elected. In my view, this is the starting point for the author's explanatory statement. That is interesting because if what I am saying is true, it is the question of exactly what problem is solved with this bill. Is this something that arises in practice or is this initiative proposal merely a theoretical exercise? The initiator further writes that the system of seat sharing is complex. The explanatory memorandum gives a very complex calculation. In view of the fact that he says that it does not occur in practice, the question is whether there really is a problem in practice, even if we can make very theoretical calculations. The present electoral circles allow political parties to propose different candidates per region. The PvdA wonders what's wrong with that if we are all convinced that the link between the electorate and the elected should be strengthened. I shall therefore be very brief: the PvdA is not in favour of abolishing the electorate. Even though there may be only one regional candidate and even if he or she is never elected, it is very good for the relationship with the region. Why would you deviate from that? We are having whole debates here about citizens' confidence in politics and people love politics that is close to them. If you add all that together, there is not much wrong with the current system as far as the PvdA is concerned. So much for my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister after the very difficult summer he has had. It's good to have him back. Mr Klein, I very much appreciate the initiative. It is very special when a group of one Member submits an initiative law. For that, great compliments. However, I cannot escape the impression that the choice of this particular legislative proposal is of some importance. I hope the initiator will deal with this later. When I read the bill, I wondered for a long time what the added value of this proposal was until I read the advice of the Election Council. I quote: 'The Election Council has taken note with approval of the proposal for the abolition of the electorate. There are serious arguments to be put forward which call for the abolition of the electoral system. For example, since the increase in the number of candidates on a list in 2009, it is possible to place sufficient (regional) candidates on a list and it is no longer necessary to submit different lists per constituency. Abolition of electoral circles will provide greater clarity for voters, since the ballot indicates all candidates for the election in question and leads to a distribution of seats that is more consistent with the pre-established list of candidates. Finally, the abolition of the electoral system will make the electoral system more transparent and more understandable." Mr Klein can put that in his pocket. This has convinced me that this is not a symbol law, but that this proposal does add something. However, I still have two questions, both to Mr Klein and to the Minister. They are about the workload of the polling stations and yet also about the declarations of support, because I share Mr Bosma's concerns a little bit that it will be very easy to participate in the elections. I am always very much in favour of a parliament as diverse as possible and I want everyone to have a serious opportunity to appeal to the people to be elected. But I don't want to encourage completely unopposed actions. Does Mr Klein not see with me the danger that we will be given a long list of parties who do not have a chance at a seat in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-8.u17	This puts an end to the Court's contribution in the first term. As mentioned earlier, the response of the initiator will be scheduled later in consultation with him. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for his presence.
