ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	I ask the Secretary of State to take his place in the right line of work. I'd like to welcome him. First of all, Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, let me just outline what's going on. At the European Patent Office there is a great deal of concern because the workers there have to deal with rather serious reprisals as a result of defending their own rights; of trade union work. Last Friday or Thursday I don't even remember when it was Mr Kerstens and I were at the organized demonstration. What I heard from the workers themselves was extremely impressive. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Patent Office in Rijswijk and Munich has for some time had targeted attacks on trade unionists and a very high workload;]] [[also noted that the EPO as an international organisation is not covered by national labour law;]] [[Whereas such violations of the International Labour Organisation's standards, particularly if they occur on Dutch territory, are inadmissible;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with other Member States of the EPO in the near future on measures to prevent these abuses and on how to regulate the legal gap in these labour disputes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-366]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	Then there is nothing left for me but to look forward to a fruitful exchange of views with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	That sounds like a nice closure to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. I too am here to draw attention to the situation at the European Patent Office, which is based, inter alia, in Rijswijk. Last week I was not only present at the demonstration of many hundreds of staff from the patent office, but I also spoke to part of the board this week. Let me say that I am pleased that the Secretary of State is going to intervene in this matter, because that seems to me to be very necessary. I shall make one motion, which has been co-signed by Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the tense situation between management and staff at the European Patent Office has now escalated, inter alia, as a result of disciplinary measures against active trade unionists;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has taken the initiative to discuss the present situation with the President of the European Patent Office in the foreseeable future;]] [[calls on the Government, in that conversation, to press for the removal of these disciplinary measures, which are a necessary step for de-escalation of the conflict which has arisen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-367]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. I share the concerns in the Chamber about the situation at the European Patent Office, all the more so because the efforts made by the Netherlands to de-escalate the situation have not been sufficient and the situation does not seem to improve. In fact, it seems to be getting worse. The example of this has been quoted here by both speakers. Reports of intimidation and measures against trade unionists only add to my concern. Those concerns have been shared by us. The Netherlands is not only one of the members of the board of the European Patent Office, but is also in the presidency. I would add that, of course, we are not the only ones. The Chamber knows that the Bureau, because it is an international organisation, is not subject to Dutch law and is subject to immunity. We do play our part in the management and presidency of the European Patent Office. Not only have we expressed these concerns, but we have also initially been committed to de-escalation through dialogue. When it turned out to be nothing, we committed ourselves to an investigation, a so-called social audit. Last week, I informed the Chamber by letter that the audit will begin. The terms of reference were adopted last December. The social audit is expected to produce results for the summer. It should also give an idea of the precise situation and lead to recommendations on possible measures that we can discuss in the administration. I would like to say that I am committed to this process, because it is an international organisation. We need to step up and coordinate this process with many other Member States. It must be done in a diplomatic capacity, let me put it this way, to achieve the desired result. This brings me to the two motions that have been tabled. In the motion in part No. 366 of Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Kerstens are invited to consult with other Member States in the near future. This consultation is already under way, as I said. However, by taking immediate action, the process we have just started will be crossed. I am committed to simply concluding the process as we agreed with the administration and in the presidency. The social audit is ongoing. The discussion on the recommendations emerging from this audit and any action to be taken will be continued when the audit report is available. The motion anticipates that process a little bit. I'm just looking at the two proposers. There is no misunderstanding about the use of the cabinet and mine. However, this motion anticipates the results of the social audit. The discussion on possible measures is appropriate as soon as the report arrives. So that's by summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	All this can be done, and I naturally appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State fully shares our concerns. At least that's how I take it. But I can imagine that the Secretary of State could see a motion such as this, should it be adopted, as a support for what he wishes to achieve in his deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	A back support is not necessarily needed here. I have already said that I share the concerns expressed in this Chamber. I also mentioned in my letter that I invited the President of the European Patent Office to a meeting. Of course, I didn't do that for nothing: I want to discuss these concerns personally with him and explain how the Netherlands stands in this regard. That discussion will take place in the short term; I will not wait until the outcome of the audit is known. However, if you, as a Chamber, table a motion requesting action, you also expect the Cabinet to implement that request immediately. I would therefore point out that Mrs Gesthuizen is a little ahead of schedule. Maybe Mrs. Gesthuizen can hold the motion until we get the results of the social audit. This is the time to discuss with each other the recommendations that emerge from them and to take any action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	I will consider that after I have discussed it with the colleague with whom I have tabled the motion. Can I ask the Secretary of State how much burden he thinks he would have on such an adopted motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	As long as Mrs Gesthuizen does not bring me to the Chamber every week to ask me what is going on with the implementation of the motion, I will not be affected by it. However, I have said what the process is, and I really want to end that process. This is important because we have made these agreements with the European Patent Office's administration. So the motion crosses that a little bit. I didn't intend to deviate from that process myself. That is why I would like to inform Mrs Gesthuizen that it might be more convenient to hold the motion. But she's already said to consider that. With this I take the step to the second motion tabled. That's the motion in part No. 367. It belongs to the same proposers, but in reverse order. In the course of the discussion with the President of the European Patent Office, the applicants request that the disciplinary measures against trade unionists be reversed. It takes me too far to go into an individual labour dispute here. But that these concerns have increased, of course, has everything to do with what has happened here. I'll be sure to convey those concerns in the conversation. This will certainly be one of the points of discussion. I would like to leave it at that, because otherwise I would deal with an individual labour dispute and I do not think that is appropriate. The two applicants can rest assured that this will be discussed in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	That makes this motion judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	No, the motion is requesting something else. The motion calls for concrete demands for the removal of disciplinary measures. That is something I cannot commit to here, because I am going to deal with an individual labour dispute, so I must advise against this motion if it is to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	I had just missed out on whether the first motion would also be dissuaded if it were not stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	My request is to hold the motion. If that request is not complied with, I would advise the Chamber not to adopt this motion as it stands, because I cannot carry it out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	Since we do not have a second term, I will say, for the sake of fairness, that I do not intend to hold the motion, but that I am prepared to admit that I will not put the Secretary of State on his jacket every week. I personally see it as an effort obligation, which should ultimately lead to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u16	I see that this is a great relief for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u17	It would be useful for me if the Chamber made a request which it wanted me to carry out in that form. If it is formulated differently, it puts me in a position to say that I cannot carry out the request as it has been formulated. Much more importantly, we share the concern and, from the position we have in the management of the European Patent Office, we make this commitment. I have the impression that the cabinet is supported by the Chamber and that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u18	I thank the Secretary of State for coming. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
