ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. The first 200 refugees were sent back to Turkey yesterday, including 2 Syrians, while there were several clear signs that Turkey is not yet able to guarantee the rights and security of refugees. There were reports about the forced return of approximately 30 Afghan refugees and there was the message from the Syrian Human Rights Observatory that 16 Syrian refugees, including 3 children, were shot by the Turkish border guard. In addition, Amnesty International's report on the forced expulsion of several thousands of Syrian refugees. You would think that these messages give sufficient reason to suspend the return of refugees. The opposite is true. The cabinet believes President Erdogan on his brown eyes. Sending it back started yesterday. That's why I have the following questions. Why did the cabinet not propose to suspend the return of refugees to Turkey? What concrete steps will be taken to ensure that the European Commission investigates these reports, including Amnesty International's report? Is the cabinet still prepared to propose the suspension of the forced return to Turkey as long as the European Commission investigates these reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the questions. I answered some of those questions in the letter sent to the Chamber. Yesterday, the first group of migrants was indeed brought back from Greece to Turkey. In turn, the European Union has re-established the first group of Syrian refugees from Turkey. There was no reason for us to suspend this. Of course, we have taken very seriously the reports from The Times and Amnesty International that people would have returned to Syria and that refugees would have been shot at. The Declaration of the European Union/Turkey Summit of 18 March established that migrants in Turkey will be protected in accordance with relevant international standards, respecting the principle of non-refoulement. Turkey has committed itself to this. The cabinet does not have any indication that refugees would have been shot at. We are, of course, aware of reports and I take this very seriously from non-governmental organisations that individuals have been sent back to Syria on an occasional basis. The Turkish authorities strongly deny that this concerns refugees and stress that this is contrary to Turkish policy. That has now been confirmed in a press release from them. We are not interested in the blue eyes of anyone, but you must imagine that at the moment only the two Syrians who wanted to return to Turkey at their own request have been returned. The others can all apply for asylum. Of course, this will look at the rights that people have in other countries. In that sense, there is therefore no need to stop this. As I have just said, the Commission, the guardian of this agreement, has looked into this. The Dutch Government has asked Mr Avramopoulos to raise this. He did. These messages have been denied. It has never happened and therefore nothing needs to be stopped, but if Syrians have applied for asylum in Greece and they return on that basis, then it is important that this is done under UNHCR monitoring. In this sense, therefore, it is carefully looked at so that we do not do something that is not according to the agreement. In short: firstly, I take the messages very seriously. Secondly, Amnesty International's report has not yet been published. Those appointments were made and confirmed. The European Commission has raised this issue. I myself will be travelling to Greece and Turkey at the end of the week, precisely because of the concerns that exist here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister says that he takes the coverage very seriously and that he has also asked the Turkish government. That's kind of like asking the butcher to check his own meat. That can't be enough, can it? There's no reason to sit back now. Fortunately, the Minister also asked the European Commission to carry out an investigation. I'm waiting with great interest to see what's coming out of that investigation. Can the Minister state when he will be given a ruling on the European Commission's findings? I would also remind the Minister of the motion adopted on the Turkey deal, which states that the rights of refugees must be guaranteed not only on paper but also in practice. I note that not even half of Syrian children currently have education available, let alone adequate housing, health care and access to employment. Does the Minister also recognise that Turkey does not yet fully meet the criteria set out in the Refugee Convention? On the Greek islands there are now 5,000 refugees in a closed setting. Refugees have already broken out of the camps in Chios. People are entitled to a fair asylum procedure. When is the European Union going to send enough lawyers, judges and asylum officials to the islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	There are a number of elements in Mr Voordewind's question; it is actually a lot of questions. First of all, this is what I'm noticing. We take the criticism of Turkey very seriously, but we also note that at the moment 2.1 million refugees are being welcomed, that they can then get work permits, and that precisely because of this agreement, they are being invested with Turkey in order to improve reception. I would like to point out the 3 billion that has been discussed here before in the Chamber. Secondly, we are not doing anything that is not justified. I just pointed out that no Syrians were sent back who did not have the opportunity to apply for asylum. It is therefore not the case that these people return and then disappear. Thirdly, I said I'm not gonna sit back. On the contrary, Commissioner Avramopoulos, as guardian of this agreement, it is now after that. It's not about brown eyes, either. I would point out, however, that it has been requested and that a press statement has subsequently emerged from it on the Turkish side. Nevertheless, it is important to look very closely at these aspects, because it is also important for the Dutch government that the agreements made with Turkey are based on international standards. Mr Voordewind rightly pointed out the need for solidarity with Greece. I think that's important. Under the leadership of the European Commission, a huge operation is under way there. The many people involved in the proper conduct of the asylum application should not only be there in time, but also be able to do their job properly. This also means, for example, that there must be interpreters who are powerful in the language. So if there aren't, we won't let people return. The essence is that there is the possibility for everyone to apply for asylum and that Turkey has been kept to the non-refoulement agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would ask the Minister to report in a letter on the results of the European Commission's investigation into the rights of refugees in Turkey. I also ask him at what time he thinks that there are enough lawyers, judges and asylum officials going to Greece, so that those people do not spend weeks in that closed setting. So what is the deadline for that? Finally. What happens now to the refugees who are being sent back to Turkey? Where are they being taken? Can they still apply for asylum? Can the Minister clarify this, as well as the 50 000 that are now in Greece and need to be redistributed over Europe? There's still no plan for that. We still do not know which countries are prepared to do so. Can the Minister state at what time which countries are prepared to resettle those refugees who are now in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	I cannot answer all the questions now, because some of them include the policy areas of my colleague from V and J, especially when it comes to the precise distribution and procedures. In any case, I did not talk about an investigation by the Commission. The Commission is the guardian of this agreement. Of course, that........ should keep the finger close to the wrist. As soon as it is important in the various annotated agendas, I will keep you informed. I believe that we are still having a general discussion on the General Affairs Council this week. With regard to the strengthening of infrastructure in Greece, the Secretary of State for V and J will inform you. A huge operation is currently taking place under the direction of Mr Verwey of the European Commission. The main point is that the interpreters are at the moment. Just because we want to do it so precisely according to international conventions, it means that no people will be sent back to Turkey before these matters are in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	I would like to hear from the Minister how he knows that people are coming back voluntarily. The Amnesty International report shows very clearly that people are being forced to sign statements. Even children are forced to put a fingerprint so that they would return voluntarily. So how does the Minister know for sure that they will return voluntarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	There are two elements. The first is to return from Greece to Turkey. The other concerns Amnesty International's reports about people going from Turkey to Syria. With regard to the first element, I have indicated that, as far as we know, this return is voluntary and that the people concerned have not applied for asylum either. As far as the second is concerned, I did not say anything about what I am and what I am not sure about. In any case, I have informed you of the reaction I received from the Turks and how it will then be further investigated. The question was whether we should immediately stop this agreement because the people who would be sent back from Greece might also be sent back to Syria. I have told you that this cannot be the case for reasons I mentioned and because of the procedures as they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	I therefore conclude that the Minister is mainly based on what he has heard from the Turkish Government. But that cannot be enough when it comes to sending people back to war zone. That is contrary to all kinds of important treaties. Following on from Mr Voordewind, I would once again ask the Minister not to return people until it is absolutely clear that people will not be returned against their will. In my view, this is the least that should be done in the light of the various treaties we have signed in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	I fully agree with you: it is not allowed to send people back from Turkey to Syria on the basis of the principle of non-refoulement. There are reports about it now. I can't confirm that. I take it seriously. I take an organization like Amnesty International seriously. I've had a reaction to that. The European Commission is now looking into this and examining it. Then, through various activities, the Turks are reminded, in the context of the agreements made, that this cannot and must not be the policy. I cannot anticipate other conclusions. In any case, as far as the Dutch Government is concerned, we must stick to it and therefore no Syrians should be sent back from Greece to Turkey before there is absolute certainty about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	Apparently, the Turks are largely believed, because the deal goes on, while there are very worrying signals. The Minister also says that no people will be sent back to Turkey as long as the trials are not in order in Greece. What does he think of the statement by the Director of UNHCR Europe that on the first day of the deal 13 out of 202 asylum seekers had started an asylum procedure but that it had not ended? That's a direct contradiction to the deal, isn't it? How does the Minister respond to this and what does that mean for this deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	I am now confronted with this statement because, frankly, I did not know it. With the knowledge I have, very few people are being sent back, precisely because this asylum procedure is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	But it's gonna go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	You're saying it's going wrong. To be honest, I think that is premature. My impression is that the first few days went well, but we should not rush into action, precisely because the operation must be conducted in accordance with international conventions and rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister is right to say that it must be done for the time being in accordance with the international agreements and agreements made by the European Commission with the Turks. One of Knaus' concerns is that, now that the pressure on the rest of Europe seems to be decreasing, many countries in Europe sit back and find it no longer their problem, but that of Greece and Turkey. What will the Netherlands also do as President to continue to involve all the countries in the procedures in Greece and the resettlement that will be necessary in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	An extremely important question. Firstly, it is important to ensure that this agreement succeeds because direct action has been taken by both Germany and the Netherlands and Finland. Mrs Kuik is absolutely right that it is the responsibility of all countries and therefore, through the permanent representation, the Dutch Government has already issued a meeting in the coming days and also this afternoon to put pressure on all parties to participate. Mrs Kuik has a point that is absolutely right. It cannot be based solely on the goodwill of a number of countries. There must be European solidarity. In addition, there are also contacts with third countries outside Europe to participate in this distribution of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Lucas on behalf of the VVD Group.
