ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. On this Prince's Day, I may offer you the fourth Millions note from the Rutte/Asscher Cabinet, at a time when all political parties are planning for the future of our country and hopefully have it passed on to the Central Planning Bureau...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	... and at a time when voters are wondering if politicians can deliver on all these new plans and ambitions. This Millions note shows that at least there is a solid basis for this, a basis on which we can build. That base had to be laid on wet ground. The international crisis had hit the Netherlands hard as a very open economy. The deficit was also faster in 2009 than in other countries. In doing so, hidden weaknesses in our economy were mercilessly exposed. Part of the growth of the previous years was simply not sustainable. The banking sector, which has grown out of the clutters, was also hit hard compared to our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	Again? The banking sector grew from the "clutes"...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	Apparently, there's a slip in grammar. With the use of a lot of taxpayers' money, greater damage was avoided. Our housing market, driven by high housing debts, collapsed. Our pension system turned out to be a lot less robust than long thought. The creditworthiness of the Netherlands was under pressure and had to be restored. It is true that the last few years have been significantly affected, more than in some of our neighbouring countries. It is also true that short-term savings can cost growth and jobs. But in the assessment of whether or not the crisis approach could have been or should have been different, we cannot ignore these specific Dutch circumstances. The figures show that the Netherlands has re-established itself. But we came a long way. After the first year of the crisis, the balance fell from 0.2% to -5.4% of GDP, we gradually put the budget in order. At the same time, we have addressed the structural weaknesses in our economy. It is thanks to this approach that the Netherlands is much better off than we would have done with the French battle. In addition to the economic conditions, the budget also experienced less gas extraction and lower gas prices. Gas revenues are now 7.5 billion euros lower on an annual basis than we expected at the time of the start of the cabinet. This spring, budget preparations started with a fall of EUR 2.4 billion due to very low inflation. The deficit is expected to fall to 1.1% of our gross domestic product this year and to 0.5% next year. Government debt is also falling further to 62% next year. Perhaps even more important than annual deficit and debt figures is how we stand in the longer term. Public finances are sustainable in the longer term for the first time in many years. This means that without further intervention in the future we can simply maintain the AOW prosperity, pay the care and maintain our dikes. By further balancing public finances, we are also opening up scope to cope with future setbacks and we are better able to cope with new risks to the treasury. This is possible because economic growth is continuing at 1.7%. Behind all these numbers, people are hiding. People who lost their jobs were looking for new jobs. Many Dutch work longer. Homeowners paid off their mortgage. Entrepreneurs continued and tested new possibilities. But the damage of the crisis has not yet occurred for many people. After periods in which unemployment increased by some 20 000 per month, it has been steadily declining since mid-2014, now below the level of when the cabinet started. And the decline seems to be accelerating over the past few months. Yet there are still too many people out of work. In 2017, the low income advantage will start, a tax discount that will make it cheaper for employers to hire people at the bottom of the labour market. This is still part of the 5 billion reduction in the burden and, above all, aimed at low-income workers. By improving the economy and budget on many fronts, we can free up money to further strengthen the Netherlands and support purchasing power. The latter is mainly about people who do not benefit themselves from the recovering economy, namely the elderly and the minimum. Purchasing power plates are fixed in August. Every year we look closely at where the advantages and disadvantages of economy and policy end up. Then we'll send you where necessary. Some in this Chamber would like to get rid of that, but that annual exercise in August helped to make the Netherlands one of the countries with the smallest income differences in the world. This is not self-evident, and it is precisely for this reason that fair sharing is one of the pillars of government policy. Unfortunately, the neighbourhood where a child lives and who his parents are predicts too often how many chances he or she gets in life. In addition to the purchasing power package, for which the cabinet has over 1 billion, 100 million will be made available to tackle poverty among growing children; very practical and very targeted. If money is a problem to participate in school or to be able to exercise, then we have to solve it. In addition, security requires additional commitment, including for the national police and for the Defense Department. Moreover, the General Court indicated this spring that the problems cannot be solved alone with more money. Clear choices about where the money is going and how it is being managed are also essential to put things in order. The same applies to the Investment Agenda of the Tax Administration. As in home, the recovery in the euro area is continuing. Where countries with economic growth were still an exception a few years ago, Greece seems to be the last to find its way up this year. Average growth in the euro area is expected to be 1.6% this year, and the average deficit is below 2%. The figures have improved, but there are still risks. There are also new risks, such as the Brexit. The agenda remains: gradually putting budgets in order, reforming for more competitiveness, further stabilising banks and supporting investment for new jobs and business. The economy is growing steadily again, public finances are healthier and companies show confidence in the future. But too many people notice too little of that. There are still too many children left behind, too many people out of work and too many energetic entrepreneurs who can't get their plans around. After years of economic recovery, attention must now shift to investing in new opportunities. On the one hand, major societal challenges such as energy transition, sustainability and research and development require substantial investment. On the other hand, there are bottlenecks in funding around SMEs, especially in the growth of promising new companies. The government is already active in many ways to make its funding possible, but it can and should be more effective. The cabinet will present this cabinet period with a proposal for a new institution to better support these investments, so that we do not miss out on opportunities for the future. Budgeting was once called "a method to worry even before the money is spent instead of afterwards." That's a nice variation on "regulating is forethought." In order to be truly forward-looking, especially over the next four years, the budget is an indispensable instrument, and this budget is a good basis. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to offer you the 2017 Millions' Note and the related documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	I thank the Minister for offering the budget for 2017. From now on, the Chamber will start discussing the budget, starting with the General Political Reviews tomorrow and Thursday. And now for a few brief announcements, I promise you.
