ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u1	There are three speakers on the side of the Chamber. This debate was requested in November last year. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. If you put your body in the hands of someone else because you want to get better, you have to assume that the other person deals with it with respect. If you're sick and need someone else, that trust shouldn't be embarrassed. This is called patient safety. At the same time, we know that people can make mistakes. No one is flawless, especially when it comes to something as complex as medicine. But you must always be able to rely on openness and honesty. If it goes well, but certainly if it goes wrong. To learn from mistakes, you need to acknowledge errors and be able to apply self-reflection. If you apply these principles, what is happening in the University Medical Centre Utrecht is unacceptable. There is a culture of silence, money must be earned and therefore production must be made. Operations can be faster, even if they are at the expense of patients. Serious consequences of errors shall not be reported to the inspection. They're lying about the cause of death of patients. Whistleblowers are intimidated and receive threatening letters, such as the highly respected specialist Van Olffen. But there are more. Instead of an inspection taking place, we see an inspection covering it. In any event, the action or failure to act on the inspection shall be used as an ID by the hospital. Whether a coroner has determined a natural death, rather than just having made a phone call, the inspection does not investigate. Very serious anonymous reports about culture of silence? The inspection hears and closes the case. Wherever drivers cover, the inspection doesn't do anything. In fact, it also covers this. The inspection as a money launderer. It is only when it appears that a doctor who is being investigated is going to operate again that there will be a penalty, months too late and perhaps years. Then the Minister. Answers to Parliamentary questions? We don't get them, because "there's still research going on." So don't talk to the Minister. Where the minister is against non-disclosure contracts in the care, she is apparently for a culture of silence. The hospital knows a culture of silence, the inspection doesn't say a word about it and the minister also doesn't say a word about it. You'll just work in a hospital and worry about patients and know at the same time that you'd better shut up. After all, silence is the norm. Are drivers who say to their staff "when the inspection comes, you can only answer the questions and say nothing else" to maintain? Are drivers who have internal investigations into serious calamities, think of the mistakes made in the hearing implants in children, having them modified, so that the sharp edges are off before the reports arrive at the inspection, to be maintained? Can an inspection be maintained that accepts that deadly calamities are not reported? Can we continue with an inspection that does not deal with reports of a culture of silence, while we know from the past that this causes serious damage? Because governance, supervisory board and inspection fail and because trust in care is seriously at stake, I ask the Minister to ask the Research Council for Security to investigate the University Medical Centre Utrecht, but also the conduct of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. People who are sick must always be able to trust that they are given the best care and that that care is safe. Of course, something can always go wrong during a treatment. If that is the case, this should always be reported to the Health Inspectorate. This is also stated in Article 11 of the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. It states that the health care provider shall report without delay to the State health surveillance of any calamity that has taken place during the provision of care. As far as I am concerned, this text is crystal clear in this very interesting law. I am therefore disappointed in caregivers who are still thinking of not reporting and in those who know about it but also doing nothing and not reporting it. I am equally disappointed in the boards of health care institutions that knowingly allow a culture to exist that is not reported. My disappointment is mainly due to the fact that those who do not report personally undermine trust in good Dutch health and also ruin it for medical professionals who understand this very well. Luckily, there are a lot of them. The VVD believes that calamities should always be reported to the IGZ, even if there is doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u4	Everyone agrees that calamities should be reported, but what does Mr De Lange think about the fact that the inspection has received several reports from the University Medical Centre Utrecht about the culture of silence, fraud with dbc's and very serious cases, and that after a discussion she has decided not to carry out further investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u5	I think it is important that we have a wide-ranging inspection. That is why I was the first to say that I felt that there should be tighter supervision in this case. The VVD is glad this happened. I've been told that the IGZ is now taking all the elements out of it. However, we must be careful not to draw loose elements from them and draw very large conclusions from them. This debate is not about IGZ supervision. We have to make sure that she is equipped to do this important work, but I believe that it is a matter of ensuring that there are healthcare professionals who think they can afford not to report and to maintain a culture of silence. That is at the heart of this discussion. That's what we need to break through. I think we should talk about this standard framework here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u6	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u7	There have been employees who have broken through that culture of silence, but precisely because it is so unsafe within the hospital they have done this anonymously. They've spoken to the inspection. They have done exactly what Mr De Lange wants. The inspection then said: we called the board of directors and he says there's nothing going on, so we're not investigating. In doing so, the inspection maintains a culture of silence and covers a culture of silence. Mr De Lange cannot run away from this by saying that the debate is not about this. He calls people to report, but if they do, if they report that it's unsafe somewhere, that there's silence, intimidation and cover, then those reports aren't investigated by our inspection. My question to Mr De Lange is: what does he think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u8	My answer to that is very simple. All forms of notification must be a reason to look at the situation. I'll get back to you on that. In a culture of safe reporting, there should also be a conversation between the Health Care Inspectorate and the Boards of Hospitals. Of course, you always have to find a way to make improvements. I just think it is very unwise to launch this debate from the point of view that you are taking a number of elements out of it and trying to solve this case. I think we should address the basis of this discussion. The foundation is that within the care there must be a self-evident fact that there is a culture of safe reporting. On the other hand, Mr President, and I agree with you, there must be an inspection that has sufficient resources and is sufficiently equipped to carry out enforcement. Whoever comes up with this kind of information should be able to count on him being welcome to the inspection. That's gotta be the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u9	Very good. You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr. Chairman. This therefore calls for a culture within the health care institutions where safe reporting is a matter of course rather than a culture of fear where there is silence. A culture where disaster research is the starting point for learning and improving. As far as the VVD is concerned, the Boards of Directors have a great responsibility in this regard. In the initiative paper on patient safety from 2012, the VVD already argues for this. Steps have been taken, but the responsibilities surrounding patient safety really need to be better invested in the top of the organisation. I'd like to hear how the Minister sees this. How will IGZ ensure that the culture of safe reporting is effectively secured, anchored and penetrated into the institutions' capillaries? Generally, a medical professional doesn't operate on his own. That brings me to the question of the accessory if there are no reports. What are the members of the Management Board to blame if they are not reported? How is it ensured that all factual information about calamity is recorded in a medical file? The sad occasion of the calamities at UMC Utrecht, among others, shows that it is vulnerable for a doctor to take care of patients again during the study. There are no clear guidelines for this at present. Wouldn't it be a good thing if they did, so I ask the Minister. Shouldn't it always be the case that the IGZ is included in ongoing investigations with a major impact on a decision whether someone can get back to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u11	The journalist from ZEMBLA who brought this up was with De Wereld Ruart Door. There he got an internal memo from his pocket of UMC Utrecht to all employees, which said: if you speak to someone from the inspection, you can only answer those questions that are asked and otherwise nothing. How does the VVD feel about a memo like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u12	The VVD thinks that's a communicative drama.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u13	It's a communicative drama or a sign of a culture of silence. The VVD asks everyone to report and to be open, but that is not what the board imposes on its employees. The board says to its employees: you remain silent, you say nothing more than you are asked. While there may be more to report than asked. Could this memo not be exemplary for what the UMC Utrecht board imposes on its staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u14	Let me be clear that I find it incredibly inappropriate that if you play this and if you are rightly under enhanced supervision, you are going to communicate in such a way. That's their responsibility, but I do have a standard idea. For me, one thing is at the forefront: boards have to work together to remove that fear culture and put it in an open, safe reporting culture. That goes for the whole care. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr. Chairman. Care is human work. Where people work, mistakes are made, sometimes with very serious consequences. That is why we believe that there should be good and targeted policies in hospitals, at all in health care institutions, to reduce the number of errors and to prevent errors. I've been looking through the numbers again. In 2008 Eeke van der Veen was then a spokesperson; the minister also knows him.We were still talking about 1,960 medical misses, as they were called at the time. 1,960 people died of a medical error. In 2011/12, they were 970. Those are frightening numbers. Are there any more recent figures? Because I haven't been able to find it at all. I saw a number of 1 in 3 somewhere compared to road casualties. Maybe the minister has a better google technique than I do. I would like to know if there are more recent figures. Policies are needed to reduce the number of errors and to avoid errors. If it does go wrong, then the first thing to learn from the mistakes is to prevent them from being made again. It is just as important that communication with the patient or the next of kin is properly and honestly taken into account. Non-reporting, tucking away, denying and running away from responsibility is not part of the attitude you should have. The attitude is that, if something goes wrong, you look first and foremost at the internal consequences but above all at the consequences for the people who have fallen victim. Most of the people who are dealing with mistakes and who are still in the process for a long time to come, say: there would actually have been nothing going on if the error had been acknowledged right at the start of the process and if we could have talked about that. It is precisely the denial and the running away that makes it very difficult for people who are victims of it to keep it going for a very long time. This means that there must be a cultural change in hospitals. We just talked about that. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the sector has to comply with its own governance code, which includes the following issues: open and inclusive policies, environment-conscious and participatory, efficient, learning and self-cleaning, especially in this area, it is responsible and transparent. The Labour Party believes that this responsibility is now sometimes too low in the organisation. Shouldn't responsibility for safety and quality policy simply be invested in the board of directors? If so, what would you have to include so that you could be a little more steering in it, more steering than you are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u16	On 3 November there was a disenchanting broadcast by ZEMBLA about the University Medical Centre Utrecht. In that broadcast it was said that fatalities were not reported, that the cause of death was lied about, that there was intimidation and bullying of good specialists, those who wanted to report, and that there was an enormous culture of fear. What does Mrs Wolbert think of the Health Inspectorate only five months later? Oh, yeah... that puts hospital under enhanced supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u17	Moreover, the result of the increased supervision was a very different one. The inspection must operate very quickly, but also sometimes more proactive than it is now. The inspection is now often reactive. I can also see that something is improving, for example because the inspection can look unannounced. In this type of signal, the inspection should use all the instruments at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u18	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u19	If I listen carefully to Mrs Wolbert, she says that she does not understand it very well either. Utrecht University Medical Center denied the problems arising from the broadcast of ZEMBLA. After three weeks, he turned the doctors who it was into into inactive. They went on vacation and didn't operate anymore. There was an external investigation. So it was recognised that something was going on. It was only then, after repeated infringement of trust, that the inspection imposed stricter supervision. In the meantime, would it be possible for risks to have taken place in that hospital, because the inspection had initially not imposed stricter supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u20	I don't know. I know, however, that the procedure is that an institution on which complaints have been made or where calamities have taken place is always asked to investigate itself first. That depends, by the way, on the seriousness of the incident. The hospital or care institution must therefore first see for itself what has happened, who has been working on it and whether the organisation has overlooked matters. That is not because the inspection does not want to intervene, but because it assumes an important learning capacity for the institution. I think that is a good policy in itself. If there are persistent, serious complaints, I think the inspection should also visit the organisation unannounced. If there are individual detectors, I think she should also investigate those reports. The inspection has a whole set of tools that she can use. I think she should use it to the full if there is any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, we also had an extensive debate on the inspection. In that debate, we have had a lot of exchanges. We have outlined together how the inspection has changed compared to a number of years ago. We see that the inspection has become much more proactive, shorter on the ball and much more active on the case. I have listed points showing that this change has taken place and that much has changed. I do not think it would make much sense to have that debate again. After all, we've just had it. It is important that responsibility lies primarily with the hospital and the medical specialist. You have to make sure there's a good culture in the hospital. Sometimes that culture doesn't come into being by itself. That should help you a little bit. That is what we do with legislation and with rules. We adapted the Wkkgz not so long ago to ensure that a calamity is included in the patient file. Mr De Lange asked for this. We've just sharpened it all and better arranged it. We have agreed that quality and patient safety are explicitly the responsibility of the board of directors. The board of directors is responsible for his own hospital and for everything that happens in the hospital. You can make a lot of rules. We have a supervisor who is much shorter on the ball, we have asked whether we should professionalize the board. Should we have an accreditation for the administration and supervision to make that improvement? It's being worked on all sides. We do not know exactly how the inspection took place within the UMCU, because the investigation is still ongoing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u23	I asked the minister where such a thing is anchored. Where does it say that responsibility for quality and safety should be guaranteed at the level of the Management Board? I didn't find it in the governance code. I've been looking into some legislation, but I couldn't find it anywhere. We think it's the right thing to do, but where is it? That is important to know, so that the inspection can monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u24	I think it's in the Wkkgz, but I'll take a look at the officials. It's in the Wkkgz and the inspection's monitoring it. The inspection conducts annual interviews and then everything is passed by. The Management Board shall be responsible. The doctor is also responsible for simply reporting it and putting it in the electronic patient file. Mrs Leijten asks if I am prepared to have the Research Council for Security do research at the University Medical Centre Utrecht. No, I'm not, because the inspection put the UMCU under enhanced supervision. That's the hard part when you're talking about an ongoing case. I could not say that in the previous debate, but fortunately I can say that now, because we now know that this hospital has been put under enhanced supervision. As is well known, this is subject to procedures and legal deadlines. Eventually, the inspection will produce a report at the end. It may always be that at some point you find that, looking back, you are wondering if you could have done better. The inspection also sees this as a learning process. If there is any reason to let another person look at it, then we are transparent in that and we are not doing too difficult about it, but we are not going to frustrate an ongoing investigation. The hospital is not only under surveillance, but there is also an investigation under way. I don't feel anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u25	There's an investigation going on. You may wonder if that investigation shouldn't have been started much earlier, also given the anonymous reports that were there earlier, which were not anonymous for nothing. They were even filed with a lawyer, I think. Let me talk about the board's silence memo. The inspection is now investigating and has placed the hospital under enhanced supervision. If the inspectors are on the work floor, the staff must do nothing but answer questions and that alone. They must also report to their supervisor that there has been an inspector. How does the Minister feel about that? Does she find that trustworthy? Does she think that's a good thing? Or does she say, like Mr De Lange, that this is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u26	Anyone can report anything to the inspection, during or after an inspection visit or if someone is at home in the evening and still wants to report something to the inspection. That's what the inspection's for. After all, we are now re-introducing the debate that took place two weeks ago. Mrs Leijten was not there, but Mr Van Gerven was there. We have made it very clear that everyone must always be able to report openly to the inspection and always be able to go to the disciplinary court. I have made these statements before, and I would certainly like to confirm them, but it is clear that we have dealt with each other in such a way as to be concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u27	I think it is quite clear, when you look at the UMC Utrecht, that people who report, who were critical, are intimidated and eventually left. People have gone to the inspection on an anonymous basis and that has not been investigated for procedural reasons. And now there's such a silent memo. According to my analysis, that's an excrement of the culture of silence in that hospital. And then the Minister doesn't say anything about it. I think that's kind of crazy. I may not have been in that debate two weeks ago, but I am following everything very closely, as the Minister knows. That's when I saw her really good answers about those Abject Shut-Up contracts. The minister didn't need an investigation for that. She said she won't tolerate it. Report directly to the inspection if there is a contract of silence. But if it's about a culture of silence and a silent memo, shouldn't the minister do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u28	Yeah, I just did, and so did two weeks ago. Let us be very clear about it, everyone must be able to say anything at all times to the inspection and go to the inspection. I would like to say it three more times, but that is the line we agreed on in the healthcare sector. If there's a memo showing that it's different, then the inspection will investigate it as well. The institution is already under enhanced supervision. The inspection investigates all kinds of cases at UMC Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u29	We can't have a silent contract, and we can't have a silent culture. Are the people reporting to the inspection safe now? Are the people who have not felt secure for years, which created this culture of silence at UMC Utrecht, because we can't avoid it, safe? Can the Minister state the same here? Only then can we really break the culture of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u30	Those people are always safe at the inspection. If you want to expose cases, you can report them to the inspection. If you work in a hospital and you have the idea that not everything is clear and visible for the inspection, then the inspection is right to report that sort of thing there; especially when it comes to a hospital that is under enhanced supervision, because there is already a lot of inspection going on. I come to Mr De Lange's point. I think that we have done a great deal recently about the things Mr De Lange mentioned. We have a new law, in which we have stipulated that factual information about a calamity must be included in the file. We have established that there must be transparency around medical specialists and that there must be more culture from each other. If things aren't right, we have to say it to each other. However, in addition to those directly on the bed, the board is ultimately responsible for patient safety, for culture in an institution and for a culture of safe reporting. If things don't go well, a hospital should send around a memo that encourages people to come and tell you so it can be solved and made better. A hospital is there to provide the best possible care. I come to the number of avoidable deaths. That number has indeed gone down incredibly. This has not happened on its own; a very hard path has been set up. That was used by my predecessor, and by the industry itself, at the time, and it worked very hard to bring that number down. I don't know if we're actually keeping those numbers and where we're reporting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u31	Perhaps you'll know that in your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u32	Together with the EMGO, the NIVEL has conducted several investigations into avoidable damage and safe care. We'll keep the finger on the wrist to see if that's still going well. The journey we have followed with each other is now over. That halving trajectory was a huge effort. We also introduced the VMS, the safety management system, and that has been implemented everywhere. That has all contributed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u33	I have another question about accessory, if anyone chooses not to report anything. You don't usually care alone and so it may be that there are several people who have knowledge of it. The Governing Board may therefore have knowledge of this. How does the Minister see the chain of accessory not reporting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u34	If there is an incident, it must be reported and recorded in the patient file. Those involved are all obliged to report it. Hospitals have a procedure for that, too. Ultimately, those who are actually involved in the treatment are responsible, as are the Management Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u35	Do I understand that chain responsibility is the starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u36	Sure, but there's not necessarily another system when rumors are heard through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u37	One more comment before the second deadline begins, Mr President. I have put four questions to the Minister and I have not yet had an answer to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u38	I've heard one question: do I want to ask the Security Research Council to do an investigation? I've already answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u39	Before that, I had already asked whether drivers who say to their staff that they can only answer the questions raised by the inspection could be maintained. I also asked whether drivers should be able to maintain internal examinations of calamities, in this case with hearing implants in children, so that their sharp edges do not end up in the inspection. Furthermore, I asked what we should do with an inspection that accepts that deadly calamities are not reported. I also asked whether we could proceed with an inspection which does not deal with reports of a culture of silence, knowing that this would cause serious damage to patient safety. I also asked those four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u40	I have already taken some of them into account in my reply. You must have an open organization. Emergency situations must be reported to the inspection. I assume that you are sending out memos that make it clear that one should be open, that one is there for the patient, that one should tell each other and to the inspection everything one can get better from and from which one can learn. So we have to report it. The inspection investigates it itself and I do not deal with matters that the inspection is investigating. In the end, the investigation of the inspection, on which it has also set up an external committee, will have to show how many cases have been dealt with and dealt with internally, what the assessment is and what measures the inspection takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u41	Well, I'm wondering. In this case, a research journalist from ZEMBLA came up but he could have been from another medium with the story that mistakes have been made with fatal outcome. Then you hear that the latter was forged, so they tried to make it a natural death. And you hear that wasn't reported to the inspection. If the Minister has seen and heard all this, I wonder why she is defending an inspection that is not taking place at such moments. You'd think that all trust in a care facility would expire and that, if you've broken the first and greatest rule, you'd be critical yourself and report errors. Can the Minister reassure me and everyone that the inspection will no longer accept that there will be no more reporting, by immediately imposing tighter supervision on a healthcare institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u42	It's up to the supervisor himself when he sets up enhanced supervision. The supervisor sets up enhanced supervision of an institution if, despite agreements made to improve things, the confidence is insufficient that the administration can do so on its own. They'll put a hospital under surveillance. It's not like the inspection didn't do anything here. The inspection did do a number of things with reports. Several pathways have been set in motion, but they have not led to the result that we would have liked to see. If that had been the case, the hospital would not have been under enhanced supervision. Of course, it's a long-term trajectory. Nor has the inspection, on the basis of one thing, but on the basis of a cumulation of things, finally established enhanced surveillance. It is not the case that a doctor has returned to work without reporting to the inspection and that this has been the reason for the inspection to establish enhanced supervision. The inspection considered that there was a series of cases that add together to the loss of confidence in the governance's ability to manage this. Because this has happened, it has been strengthened surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u44	Mr. Chairman. It's unheard of. You'll only be a patient at the University Medical Center Utrecht or you'll just work there. Then you look at ZEMBLA on 3 November and you see all these facts: non-reporting, lying about the cause of death, adapting reports, intimidation, a culture of silence and an inspection that does not impose enhanced supervision because apparently there was still confidence in improvement. How many times does the Minister have to explain to the Chamber, and with that to the public, that the inspection does so? I can't explain that. Because she did not intervene earlier, a hospital said to the outside world: it is not that bad with us. She gave I.D. to the hospital's actions. This not only affects confidence in our healthcare system, but certainly confidence in our supervisor. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that serious errors have been made in patient care at the University Medical Centre Utrecht;]] [[noting that there is a culture of fear and silence among staff which could endanger patient care;]] [[considers that the Health Care Inspectorate fails in its task of ensuring patient safety at the University Medical Centre Utrecht;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Research Council for Security to conduct research into patient safety within the Utrecht University Medical Centre and the way in which the Health Care Inspectorate operates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31016-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u45	I would like to take this motion for a resolution up to date. My question to Mrs Leijten is whether this motion, with really firm positions in it, is based on the individual case around UMC Utrecht that we are talking about tonight, or on a series of experiences that lead her to put that cannonball in this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u46	As I said in my first term, we must be able to count on safe care. That is what Mr De Lange himself said. Mistakes can be made; we all know that. Care is human work. If there is no reporting culture but a culture of silence, if not spoken but intimidated, then we know that this causes very serious damage to patient care. I refer to what we saw in 2007 in the cardiology department of the predecessor of Radboud University. I also point out a lot of other things. The inspection knows that, too. If the inspection hears about a culture of silence and receives an anonymous report from the colleagues of the ENT doctor who went back to work a month ago, then the inspection cannot look away. Something is being brought up here by brave people who do what the VVD wants to do, namely report abuses. Apparently, they don't want to report that to the inspection anymore, but they do that to a medium. Well, that's a good thing to think about. That makes sense about the hospital, but certainly about the inspection. Because I don't want to get bogged down in a discussion about whether or not the researchers are doing well and who should have done what when, I want the Research Council for Security to look at this. I know we can't order the OVV, but we can make a request. The OVV also investigated the events at Radboud University in 2007. Then he found that the inspection had seriously looked away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u47	I note that Mrs Leijten states that she is primarily basing herself on this matter. Well, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u48	It's not falling out of the sky. We have been discussing for many years how the inspection functions. We have been discussing for many years whether it is for patients or for health care institutions. Of course, that's part of the game. But in this case there are so many questions that I wonder if the inspection, which for a long time has not done what you might expect from an inspection, is going to bring this to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u49	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering and confirming the point that I believe we all share: the importance that the culture of safe reporting is getting under way. In doing so, it is incredibly important that we put the body which also has to do supervision in a position to do so. That's the Health Department. I still have a question from the first term. How do you deal with the resumption of work while another investigation is ongoing, especially if its impact is significant? Can the Minister, in the second term, answer the question of whether the IGZ should always be involved in advance before anyone gets back to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u50	I see that Mrs Wolbert does not use her second-term speaking time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u51	Mr. Chairman. I think that Mrs Leijten is taking this motion in a very unwise way. Well, then I'm actually saying it to the softest of them. We have an independent supervisor. That independent supervisor is fully engaged in a supervisory process. And that is then crossed, while the supervisor is overseeing, by political intervention. And then another council is asked to investigate. We've arranged it so that we don't. The Minister is not even allowed to intervene in individual cases. And that is a good thing, because we do not want politically controlled supervision. I would remind Mrs Leijten of her contribution to a debate on another supervisor, namely the Dutch Healthcare Authority. As a result of that debate too, we made the agreement, which was strongly stressed, that there is no political interference in individual cases, certainly not in current cases. I therefore also believe that the action and motion of the SP undermines the authority of the inspection. That is something that is really extremely unwise. The motion also gives an opinion on the basis of a limited number of facts. Mrs Leijten does say a lot, but the inspection cannot say anything, because she is in the middle of a research process. A debate on the facts would be very unwise, because that would seriously harm the research process. So the inspection can't even say a word. In short, I would expressly advise against this motion. How do you say that in the most powerful form?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u52	That is an excellent step which we rarely hear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u53	It's probably the first time I've used it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u54	I don't know, but did the minister see the ZEMBLA broadcast?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u55	Yeah, and we talked about it two weeks ago. We have been debating this for hours. There are things that we have spoken about and there are things that we need to change with each other. But the move you are making with this motion is extremely unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u56	There is a culture of silence in the care sector, which the inspection has known about for years. In the same hospital, the issue of the investigation of probiotics and non-reporting of deaths was raised. There are several reports to the Labour Inspectorate about harassment. They've been looking away for years. I don't think I can explain that. I am looking for a way in which we do not say that we are going to have the institution carry out investigations and rely on inspection control, even though confidence has already been so severely damaged. We want it examined by a truly independent third party. That is not, therefore, a question of intervention in the investigation. No, we're asking someone else to do that investigation. We don't write that investigation either. Then we can judge what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u57	It's a walking trajectory. You don't intervene in an ongoing trajectory of a supervisor. This is a total confusion and confusion of responsibilities, with all the consequences. Mr De Lange wondered whether we should not arrange for the inspection to be involved before anyone gets to work. Well, we live in a country where you have to go to the disciplinary court or the judge to give someone a professional ban. The inspection doesn't just ban it. You can't do that. We have arranged for the inspection, in very special cases, to take a measure in anticipation of the judgment of a disciplinary judge. It will then be reviewed by the disciplinary judge. The way things are going is that a government is so wise to take action and then wait for such an investigation. This has not gone wrong in this case; it is explicitly the responsibility of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-21-tweedekamer-12.u58	We shall vote on the motion on Tuesday. I thank the Minister for her presence.
