ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Through NU.nl I came up with answers to parliamentary questions from the Flemish Parliament. Among other things, it was about whether Flanders, the Flemish security houses, actually had a view on returned jihad fighters, returned Syrians. To my rigid bewilderment, the answer was: no, we have no idea. It went even further. Those answers say: in the last two years almost no former Syrians have been accompanied by Flemish justice houses, I quote. And that while Belgium is in the top four countries of extravagants. Many Belgian nationals go to Syria to fight there. That scares me so much, because Antwerp is around the corner. In a curse and a sigh you are from Antwerp in the Netherlands. It scares me so much because even closing the borders doesn't have any influence on this, because with a Belgian passport and without registration you can convince every customs officer, every military officer that you can and can go to the Netherlands. In short, we are extremely vulnerable; we are as strong as the weakest link. Hence my questions to this minister. I really hope he can take away my great concerns. Minister, can we get past being non-committal in cooperation against terrorism? Do you contact your Flemish colleague directly? Can you inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the situation and how, as far as I am concerned, we are going to work together? How do we get past this lack of commitment in international European cooperation when it comes to this incredibly important fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr Recourt, you must ask your questions through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	Through you, Chairman, the questions to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, the cause. I have, of course, also taken note of the news report myself. For me, this was a reason to contact my Belgian colleagues. So the answer to Mr Recourt's first question is: I have already done so. I have found that the justice houses, of which I do not yet know exactly how they function and whether they are similar to, for example, the Safety House in the Netherlands or to the probation in the Netherlands, belong to the government of Flanders. I will contact the official and personally, because I have exactly the same questions as Mr Recourt. I would like to ask him whether the message is correct and what this means and whether this means that there is insufficient visibility among our Belgian colleagues in the places where Syrians, extravagants, returners or radicalised people are staying. I imagine that I will inform the Chamber as soon as I have an insight into the facts and can make an analysis of them. I can add that this message gives me reason to ask our German colleagues the same question, also in connection with last week's debate, and to analyse any risks we might face in the Netherlands with regard to the way in which our German colleagues deal with them. I assume that within a few weeks it will be possible to inform the Chamber about the approach, both in Belgium and in Germany, how it works before but also after a possible criminal sanction, how supervision is guaranteed and how it is guaranteed that we will be informed if someone, for example, manages to work themselves out under supervision. I think it is important to establish with each other what our risks are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister for taking action. That saves me two more indents of my follow-up question. I am indeed curious about Flanders, but this also applies to Wallonia and the metropolitan area of Brussels. Fortunately, the minister himself has already gone to Germany. Of course, France remains and not least the Netherlands itself. We rightly look at foreign countries as a possible risk for the Netherlands, but we also need to have it in order ourselves. We too may be able to be used abroad or learn how to do better in the Netherlands. I will then continue to ask the Minister what it is like to be wider than Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands throughout the Schengen area. Are we really gonna pass that no-committal? Can the Netherlands take concrete steps in this direction during the EU Presidency? I will wait for the answer to these questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	In this respect, I can reassure Mr Recourt in part. We in the Dutch Presidency have chosen to step up cooperation in a number of areas and to remove the non-binding nature. I gave a number of examples of this last week, such as the Counter Terrorism Group at the level of the intelligence services, but also the Europol Counter Terrorism Center at the level of police cooperation and, of course, Eurojust, which we already know. They run together a large number, I think hundreds, of cases in the field of terrorism. These are all means to remove the non-committality of cooperation. We also said that we will take very concrete steps in Luxembourg at the next JHA meeting next week on Thursday 21 April 2016. As President, we will propose to remove this non-committalism from cooperation in a number of areas. Forced intensive cooperation from state to state is a bit tricky, but in any case it must be free of obligation. We will end our process in June with a very concrete plan, in which we want to make clear agreements on a number of very structural issues about who exactly set out what, so that the non-committality and the constant confirmation that we are going to do something becomes very concrete in a form in which we are really going to do it. We are currently working hard to reach agreement on this in Europe. If that is adopted, we have a document containing an agreement plan that we can keep to each other. That's what we're looking for together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'm glad the Minister does what I suggest. I understand that in the very short term, within two weeks, he informs the Chamber exactly what is going on in this matter with Flanders and that he wants to reach agreements within the Dutch Presidency. I understand that you don't just have a binding treaty, but you can indeed make binding agreements. I understand that's what the government's gonna do. This is incredibly necessary, because our security depends on how other countries address terrorism threats and radicalisation. We will talk about this many times in the coming period. I continue to urge the government and this minister to make every effort to make it as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	That is the last point I can give you. I am fully aware of my responsibility and the obligation we have at this very point. Last week we discussed this in detail in the debate. We have our security well in many areas, I think, but we learn every day and change our strategy every time. At the same time, we must ensure that the interfaces with other countries are strong, so that we do not have to worry about them. When such a message comes, I think I should be expected to say that I want to know what is going on with my colleagues. I will inform the Chamber and see if there is any point on which we should be concerned or where we can make improvements together with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	It is a very worrying message that the registration of returners has been so badly taken up. This applies not only to Belgium and Germany, but to the whole of Europe, especially the Schengen area, where people can travel freely. Registering is one thing, but what happens next? Is deradicalisation taking place or attempts to do so? Are people getting busted? Can the Minister indicate what policy follow-up will then take place in that registration review? What happens to people who are registered? Are they being watched? What policy is being taken on a country-by-country basis? The insecurity and security of neighbouring countries is indeed our security and insecurity. It's really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would be happy to take those aspects with me. I was going to do that, just to see if that step is taken. The good news, as I exchanged with Mr Segers in the previous debate, is that the number of registered people has increased enormously in recent months. I'm talking specifically about Syrians. There are now nearly 5,000 registered. It is estimated that there are also about 5,000. There will undoubtedly still be people we have not registered, but this means that huge steps have been taken. I fully agree with Mr Segers that we would like to know what the underlying activities are. I hope that colleagues in other countries will do the same as we do. I know that for a number of countries, because I talk a lot about it with my colleagues. Where necessary, we will conduct case consultations. It's always about stopping, stopping, holding on, interrogating, seeing what the risks are, letting go of a risk analysis. Where necessary, criminal investigations will take place and, where appropriate, prosecution will also be carried out. The possibilities for deradicalisation, both through prevention and repression, must be taken on a wide scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	The answers must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	We have had attacks in Madrid, Copenhagen, London, Paris and Brussels. And what does the Minister do if it turns out that Syrians are not registered? He says: oh yes, I'm going to call Belgium and Germany. We have had a debate here for three weeks with this minister, to finally get him going, to make sure he acts, to do something. And what's he saying here? Oh, yeah, in a couple of weeks, I'm gonna have another meeting with colleagues at lunch or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	This minister is in his late hour. When is he finally going to do something to make the Netherlands safer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Van Raak asks the question in a way that I do not think fit in with the activities we have undertaken in recent years. We have taken great steps forward again and again. This point will be in the news and I'll take action right away. I'm gonna go over it and make sure the Chamber is properly informed. I share the concerns of the Chamber and I want them to be taken away from myself. That is why I took that action. I think this can be expected of me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	I also have a question. We are about to vote on the motions tabled during last week's debate on terrorism. These are to a large extent about how we deal with returning Syrians. The Netherlands is doing a lot more than Belgium at the moment, is the image we get of it. The Minister has just announced that a number of actions are under way under the Dutch Presidency. I want to make it even more concrete. Will there be a European list of registered Syrians, so that all Schengen countries are aware of the movements being made in different countries? That's the only way we're gonna get a tight system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	That list is there. There are two lists. You have the Schengen Information System, which we also discussed extensively last week. That includes everyone who is concerned by a Member State. That doesn't necessarily have to be Syrians, but it can also be a radicalized person or a criminal. They can also be registered in SIS. In addition, we have a list of people we are concerned about in the context of terrorism. That's the Europol list. As I said to Mr Segers, there are now almost 5,000 people on it.
