ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. This is an interesting subject. It is good that we can talk about it again. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that refugee children are regularly relocated after arrival in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas all these moves are not good for the development of the child because they do not provide a stable environment and hinder the organisation of education;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal to limit the number of movements of refugee children to a maximum of once, only in exceptional cases and for serious reasons, and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pupils are being prepared for regular education through international classrooms;]] [[noting that young people around 18 years of age after the international switching class no longer pursue a secondary school diploma but influx at mbo-1 level;]] [[Whereas some of these pupils could handle a higher level of education;]] [[believes that it is important to make the most of these young people's talents;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up proposals for this specific group of pupils who are just outside the compulsory school age, including at the appropriate level in the course of further training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34334-14]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34334-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	I shall come back very briefly to the little debate we had during the general discussion on Mrs Le Pichon's research. The Secretary of State has responded to this. According to him, the study would confirm that central lessons, i.e. all refugee children combined, would be better than decentralised lessons in which pupils are in classes with Dutch children. Mrs Le Pichon herself says that this conclusion cannot be drawn from her research. Can the Secretary of State still respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join Mr Van Meenen's last question on this research. Indeed, it is a problem for the VVD group that it wants asylum children to receive education in a separate class, while teachers say that this is really not desirable for the development of these children. Moreover, I do not think it is very desirable to promote integration either. I have a motion on the trauma treatment of children of refugees. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 74% of schools providing education to refugees' children mention trauma treatment as a bottleneck in the provision of education to these children;]] [[Considering that the government chooses to have teachers take an online course that teaches teachers to promote the resilience and recovery of children and to deal with symptoms of traumatic stress (costed by a private wealth fund);]] [[Considers that it would be wiser for the welfare of children to employ professional workers when children of refugees suffer from (war) traumas;]] [[calls on the Government to use professional youth assistance within the education system to deal with trauma in refugees' children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34334-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply in general consultation. The Christian Union has great appreciation for schools and teachers who receive and guide refugee children. That is a considerable task and it also includes additional funding. As far as we are concerned, this should also apply to the second year of primary education. In the debate I also asked about the inequality between the funding of education for disadvantaged children and the funding of education for refugee children. Schools receive a certain amount for children with low-educated parents. The amount of funding received by schools for refugee children is often lower than the extra money involved in education for disadvantaged children. Why does a school receive more money for a child with low-educated parents than for a child who doesn't know the language and culture? I don't understand. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that about half of parents holding status are highly educated and that a school therefore does not receive late-stage resources for additional guidance for the child;]] [[Whereas refugee children, also with highly educated parents, need additional guidance, because they are not yet powerful in the Dutch language and do not know the culture;]] [[calls on the Government, for newcomers (refugee children and status holders), to always provide tailor-made funding to schools, at least in the first year of school,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34334-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. We had a strong discussion with the Secretary of State on education for refugee children. This discussion focused on financing in primary education for the second year. In the second half of the year, this funding is for two years, but in primary education it is only for one year. Many, including the PO Council, have called for this major financial problem to be resolved. I am very pleased to be able to table the next motion here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that adequate funding should be provided for the reception and training of refugee children;]] [[having noted that in primary education there is additional funding for one year and in secondary education for two years;]] [[Whereas educational deficits have not occurred after one year;]] [[Whereas, from the point of view of integration and participation, it is necessary to invest in education for refugee children;]] [[calls on the government to release funds so that primary schools receive additional funding for the training of refugee children in the second year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Rog, Mr Siderius, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Ypma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34334-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	It is customary for us in the VVD Group to always consider the extent to which there is coverage for good proposals. I would very much like to judge this motion in this way. That is why I ask Mr Grashoff where he will find cover for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	There are several possibilities for coverage. As far as we are concerned, this coverage does not necessarily have to come from the education budget. The first option concerns the following. Very recently, a spring note has been presented showing that, contrary to all expectations and after the necessary setbacks have been met, our EMU balance will improve by 0.1% during the current year. It amounts to about 700 million. You can actually solve a few problems with that. The second possibility could be to draw on the integration reserve, the reserve that has been set up for the financial problems surrounding the whole asylum issue, which is clearly part of this issue. That would also be a very good opportunity. Given the size of the amount, I can also imagine that there are possibilities, in whole or in part, in the margins of the education budget. We've talked about the diagnostic interim test before. As far as I am concerned, this subject can disappear in no time. This could already cover a large part of this document. In view of the assessment of the PO Council, among other things, the Secretary of State mentioned a sum of 24 million. In my view, there is still a certain double counting with the means behind. So it is possible that the amount is slightly lower. Don't pin me on it, but with the figures from the PO Council, the amount will be somewhere between 14 million and 24 million. The problem should therefore be solved along one of these routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Grashoff has given a nice list. Has he also included in the recital for all the different posts he has put forward that we have already exceeded 145 million in the post on asylum children at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	That is certainly the case. I would almost say: if you see how hard the financial effort we have to make in the Netherlands on the whole asylum issue, including education, you have to ask yourself whether we are not in the process of doing things for 80%. We should also make this 20% investment, which really makes it possible for people to participate in a full and equal way, to find jobs at the right level, and ultimately to contribute to the costs. I say this particularly in the direction of the VVD. Think of this as an investment in the future of our society and of the people who are here and who remain here. We would also like to see them as carriers of our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. In the first AO on refugee children I asked the Secretary of State how he would pay for this and what he would remove from regular education. I thought that was a legitimate question. D66 and especially the SP considered it shameful that I dared to ask the question. However, every education euro can only be spent once. I hear Mr Grashoff making a wonderful story about how he is going to pay for all this, but I do not hear him say anything about the elderly in the Netherlands, about health care, and about pensioners. No, he's keeping an incredible story about funding that asylum industry. So we know where GroenLinks is. We are in a different position and hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in 2014 and 2015 a total of EUR 235 million was released from the education budget for the education of asylum-seekers children;]] [[Whereas, therefore, this money has not been spent on regular education;]] [[whereas the influx of asylum seekers will not end, but will increase further in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government, the human resources available and the available education budget to be allocated to mainstream education rather than to asylum-seekers' children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34334-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr. Chairman. We have recently spoken twice about refugee children in education. In the first debate, we asked for a more detailed explanation of the resources available and the argument for two years' funding in secondary education and one year's funding in primary education. The answers given by the Secretary of State were not satisfactory for the CDA Group. That is why the CDA supports Mr Grashoff's motion to fund the education of refugee children in the second year of primary education, as in secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Chairman. 94% of children who come to the Netherlands as refugees and belong in primary or secondary education will find a place in Dutch education within three months. That's very handsome. That's a compliment for everyone who's working on it every day. We all want these children to receive good education in the Netherlands, but the money we have at our disposal must be spent as well as possible, because we can only spend an education euro once, despite the fact that others often think that the money cannot be used up. We've been looking at how to use the money smarter. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the increase in the number of refugee children in our education makes the OCW budget for 2016 145 million euros short;]] [[Considering that many refugee children are spread across many schools and sometimes lack the appropriate expertise in those schools;]] [[Whereas in view of the many moves these children make, it would be an advantage for them if the teaching methods used were compatible;]] [[noting that it is in the interests of these pupils to offer better and more efficient education through concentration of knowledge and skills;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with education, COA and LOWAN, to come forward with proposals this year to achieve greater coherence in the education of refugee children, thereby promoting better efficiency in the use of public funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Straus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34334-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. Especially refugee children, who have already experienced a great deal, have the right to be a normal child at school. Successful integration of these vulnerable children requires additional efforts from education. Every school that takes care of children deserves a great compliment, because it welcomes the children of refugees. These schools deserve sufficient resources for help and the right materials. In one year, the language disadvantages of refugee children have not been eliminated. For successful integration, additional funding from the educational field in the second year is highly desirable. That is why we supported Mr Grashoff's motion. We want the same thing. We had a motion of our own, but we put both motions together. We hope that in this way the compliment will reach the educational field and that the field of education will continue with the attention that the refugee children deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate all the school leaders, teachers, parents, volunteers and school boards who are committed to ensuring that children who come here involuntarily get a place in our Dutch education as soon as possible. The work is incredibly hard and I think that deserves our appreciation. A number of questions have been asked. One of these concerns, in particular, Mrs Le Pichon's investigation and the letter she sent. We have been rather concise in our letter. We base ourselves on the part of the research in which Mrs Le Pichon indicates that special language classes are effective. I now base myself on what she has on her own website. The result of those language classes surprised her. In her research she compared the level of children during the first three years after leaving the Mosaic language school with the level of classmates in primary education. A year after completing the language school, it appeared that the children were already at the level of their classmates in regular education, regardless of the age at which they came to the Netherlands. In other words, I read this in the letter that Mrs Le Pichon sent afterwards. I think we share the conclusion that special language schools have a positive effect. The other point raised by Mrs Le Pichon is that good guidance is also needed after language class. We do not disagree on this either. I also think it is important that children come into contact with other children afterwards, from the perspective of integration. Afterwards, language work and additional care must be carried out. Additional funds are also available for these children in primary education. Then I'll go to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	The question of this research arose in the light of whether schools that had one, two or three refugee children in their care should also be funded. The Secretary of State's reasoning was: no, because it is only effective when it happens in a group of refugee children, I say, and that is exactly what Mrs Le Pichon is now saying: that conclusion cannot be drawn from my research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	I note that Mrs Le Pichon also points out in her own research that special language classes have a positive effect. I'm also basing that on a number of other investigations. Our own inspection has also done research on this. That is why there is a threshold in the funding. We also want to encourage primary schools to agree with their colleagues from other schools on how to teach asylum-seekers children in classrooms. If there is one child in the back of the class and you get extra funding for that one child, then you can't hire an extra teacher for that and so you don't get such a child a good language education. This hinders the integration of that child. It's just much better and more effective.That's what we see at the primary schools and at the azc's if you put these children together at the beginning, put specialized teachers on it and get them to master the Dutch language as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	The issue here is whether or not Mrs Le Pichon confirms it. She does not, but it is of course a good thing for the Secretary of State, because what he says means that he does not have to pay for schools that receive one, two or three children and give extra language education. That is actually the conclusion that is not based on Mrs Le Pichon's research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u18	This is a conclusion from Mr Van Meenen that I do not share. I'd like to reason the other way around. This is an incentive for schools to make sure with colleagues that you don't let it get over you and see what's going to happen, whether it's one or ten, we'll just let it happen. We also want schools to sit together at the table to see if, when refugee children come, it is not more convenient to set up special language classes, knowing that they contribute to the effectiveness and have a positive effect on the language skills of these pupils. That is why there is a threshold in the funding. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go through the motions and start with the Van Meenen motion in part No. 14, a request to restrict movement. I really don't think that motion is necessary. I believe that everything that my colleague Klaas Dijkhoff is doing and I myself am involved in, as well as the agreements with the VNG for it, is intended to increase the flow from the reception centres of refugees with a status. This will also require fewer emergency care facilities. They can only be used for a short time and that leads to the move. To make another plan on top of that doesn't make any sense to me. Everything we do, we do for this purpose, and that is why this motion is superfluous. Then I come to the Van Meenen motion on part No. 15. I think Mr Van Meenen has a point to make. Pupils with language disadvantages sometimes go through more difficult to the higher levels of secondary education. Over the past year, the LOWAN of the Vo and the VO Council have also had discussions on how to ensure well-running learning lines and a good flow of asylum seekers' children into mainstream education. I think it's okay if those conversations continue. In that respect, I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 16 by Mrs Siderius. I don't recommend that motion. I think it's important for teachers to be able to tell that there's something going on with a child. That doesn't mean there should be an aid worker in every classroom. Nor do I think it is the task of education to take over aid in the event of trauma. Schools should refer to the authorities that are responsible for this. We have a very good youth care in the Netherlands. We have very good agencies that can contribute to the reception and care of children when there is trauma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u19	That's exactly the problem. The Secretary of State says that teachers should only take a course online, so via the Internet, to be less act-based when children of asylum seekers have traumas. They'll have to solve that in the classroom, when you'd rather have a youth counselor in the classroom offer professional assistance to children for whom it's really necessary. That's not happening right now. Now it's being put on the teacher's plate. Teachers do not like that, because teachers say: we want to teach, we are not a youth aid provider. It would be a credit to the Secretary of State if he said: for these traumas, I am going to fly in people from the youth services or the youth services to ensure that this is treated in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u20	I fully agree with Mrs Siderius that teachers, teachers, are not youth workers. I don't think they should be either. The handouts we make available are also not intended to extend teachers' tasks, in the sense of "actually, it is something of youth care, but you should add them." They are meant to enable teachers to recognize when there is trauma, so that they can refer to professional help. This motion states: put a youth aid worker in each classroom. That's going too far in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u21	Perhaps the operative part is not well formulated; I will look at it again. With this motion, the SP asks for professional youth workers to be deployed where necessary. Of course, we're not gonna put a youth counselor in every classroom if we don't have to. It must be effective and effective. Where it is on the agenda and the children of refugees are suffering from trauma, we cannot place it on the desk of the teachers. I'll see if I can change the operative part. I hope the Secretary of State will reconsider this, because I think it is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u22	Of course, I always look with love at a modified motion. When I hear where it is going, where it is necessary, where children have traumas, there must be youth aid, I can only say that I fully agree with that. That makes the motion very unnecessary. After all, we have good bodies in the Netherlands that can provide shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u23	So the motion is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u24	I'm gonna keep dissuading her. I'll come to the motion in part No. 18 for the second year of funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u25	That's the motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u26	Sorry, the motion to part No. 17 by Mr Bruins. It's about tailor-made financing. I fear that two things are mixed up in this motion. On the one hand, it is about tailor-made financing, which relates to the rhythm of payout. It needs to be more consistent with reality. On the other hand, something runs through it. Mr Bruins is actually asking for a certain regime to be extended. I do not think we should compare apples with pears, but that seems to be happening in this motion, which is why I advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to clarify my motion. I refer specifically to the difference between refugee children and children of status holders. Children of status holders also enter the Netherlands for the first time, but in the context of family reunification, for example. They are actually having as hard a time as children of refugees entering the Netherlands for the first time. For the refugee children, tailor-made funding is available, but the children of status holders are only entitled to educational resources and then only when the parents are highly educated. That's where the crookedness is for me. Firstly, this financial contribution is lower than the tailor-made funding for refugees. Secondly, half of the status holders/parents are highly educated. So there are no means at all for children of those status holders. There's a problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u28	That is based on a misunderstanding that I can take away here immediately. Even in the post-travel, for example in the case of family reunification, schools which have to apply for this for these children can simply claim the arrangements that I have described in the letter and the customization that goes with it. I think this motion leads to confusion. So I'm gonna keep dissuading her. However, I hope that in this way I have responded to the concern of Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u29	I'll take a look at it and I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u30	I come to the Grashoff c.s. motion. in piece No. 18. This motion is actually about extending the regular regime that we now know for asylum seekers. I would like to emphasise once again that we are doing a great deal more for asylum-seekers' children. I say that because I think that this is sometimes a bit flattering in the public debate. We are doing a lot more for asylum seekers' children, including in primary education. For children coming to the Netherlands, the funding is twice as high as for children who are simply born in the Netherlands and live here. There's a lot more schools can do with that money. After that second year, primary education funding is somewhat different from secondary education. In secondary education they get this in the second year, but then it actually ends. The disadvantage in secondary education is not the size of that in primary education. In primary education, in the second year, but also in the third, fourth and fifth years, i.e. during the entire school career, about half of these children receive additional funding. They are eligible for late payment. That is therefore average, viewed across the entire school population, about one and a half times as much as what Dutch children have, or children born in the Netherlands and have highly educated parents. So we are doing a lot more in this area. We also do a lot of extra because of the large numbers. We are now dealing with far more refugee children than in the years before. The Netherlands is a prosperous and civilised country, so we need to ensure that every child here gets good education. What is being asked for in the motion, however, actually goes a little further. The motion says that all the regulations we have in the Netherlands need to be extended once again. At the request of the Chamber, I have mapped out what that would cost. That's a not insignificant amount. If the proposers want to expand this, they should also indicate where the money should come from. I have outlined the challenges that we are already facing to address those first two points and overcome the volume effects. That's pretty much what we're talking about. I can't take this out of the folds. The suggestion that it would be less than the 24 million I wrote about in my letter can also be removed from the table. In fact, we have already taken into account the fact that some of them are eligible for late payment. If the proposers want this, it's gonna cost this. I don't see any cover for that yet. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Also the motion in part No. 19, I advise. It is actually going completely the other way, because it proposes not to do anything for asylum-seekers' children at all. I believe that every child is entitled to good education. In her motion, Mrs Straus asks for item No. 20 to consult with a number of bodies, including the COA and LOWAN, to see if it is possible to organise even better and perhaps more efficiently, including to reduce costs. It seems to me appropriate to include this issue in the discussions that we already have. I'd like to take over the motion. I'd like to take over that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yeah, it's about that last motion. This, of course, also affects Mr Van Meenen's first question on this research. This is about the decentralised or central organisation of education for refugee children. What does it do centrally organize... making separate classes.. for children of refugees with the integration of these children?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u32	Integration runs along different lines. An important part of integration is that students can speak the language so that they can communicate with each other. When we see that central language classes ensure that this happens in the fastest and best way possible, I am in favour of that kind of language classes. However, I do see the point that Mrs Siderius raises, namely that all these children will then be together. The question is, do they even meet other children? As I described in my letter, I find it very nice that there are schools trying to overcome this. It is said that they do that part in a central class but that they check in the afternoon to see if these children can get a place in other schools where they meet children. Anything's possible. Those are also the things I discuss with school boards in this kind of way. In my view, this also strikes a good balance between the need to work on the one hand to master the language as quickly as possible and on the other hand to work on meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u33	The Secretary of State doesn't really answer my question. What's the risk? Surely we want us to have a shared future and that these children also integrate into our society and that they come into contact with other children? If we separate them, we already organize segregation from the government. We don't want that. We just want these kids to join us. We want them to have Dutch friends and get to know our values. That's not gonna happen if you put them separately in a classroom. We do know that the VVD has strange ideas about integration. Mrs Straus said in the debate that we should teach these children that they should not ride the highway. If that is the view of the VVD on integration, I hope that the Secretary of State will look a little further and that he will not remove this motion. This is precisely what makes us separate people, while we want a common future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u34	For a shared future it is important that you speak the Dutch language as soon as possible. Central language classes are particularly effective for this purpose. To be honest, I do not think that the remarks made by Mrs Siderius do justice to the enormous efforts made by many teachers in, for example, secondary education to learn Dutch as soon as possible in international link classes, to teach them what it means to live in this country as quickly as possible and to teach them how to behave with perhaps other customs in the Netherlands. That's where great work is being done. If Mrs Siderius then suggests that this is really only a matter of cooperating in segregation and alienation, I really disassociate myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u35	I'd like to explain my motion. I really do not want more and nothing less than to see if you want to promote types 1, 2 and 3 of the existing way of teaching newcomers, so that children, if they have succeeded, can enter Type 4 primary schools as soon as possible. Those are normal primary schools that are integrated into regular classes. So it is no more and no less than what is just the existing practice. I really don't mean to get into big, concentrated situations. It is much more about creating coherence between all the different good initiatives that exist. I see that there can be improvement in cohesion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u36	Secretary of State, do you want to respond to that, or is it clear now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u37	It's obvious, but I would have understood it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u38	I hesitated for a moment, hence this somewhat delayed interruption following my motion on educational benefits in the second year. It is clear that we must be careful not to repeat moves. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask the following. I am and remain somewhat bewildered by the Secretary of State's obstinacy. His whole story basically assumes a positive basic attitude towards the intensity of education for children with a refugee background. He himself emphasizes, in my words, that sometimes it is a school in a school, that you want to integrate, that you want it in the school, but also that you still have to have specialised teachers. I cannot imagine that the Secretary of State actually thinks and believes that in one year we will be lagging behind in language. I think he knows as well as I do that he doesn't. What's with the stubbornness? I believe that a very large part of the Chamber is consciously committed to ensuring that we do something not half-do but good. I cannot imagine the Secretary of State disagrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u39	Not all children have eliminated this delay after a year. It doesn't stop after a year, not even in financial terms. Schools receive, on average, even in the current regulations, just additional money for these children, even in the following years. Look at what happens at a lot of primary schools. The vast majority, as well as regular pupils, is about learning the language. That's part of regular education. The question is then whether we think that is sufficient. Mr Grashoff and I differ on that. These schemes have been working for 15 years and have been working well for 15 years. It is not the case that the phenomenon of refugee children has suddenly arisen and that we have had to come up with an arrangement. Two years ago and ten years ago, we also had refugee pupils, for whom these arrangements were sufficient. It's just bigger numbers now. My point is that we already have a huge effort to make sure that we can handle the volume effects well. This is gonna be okay. I've indicated exactly what that requires. I note that Mr Grashoff does put the question on the table, but does not solve the financial problem. Then it has to come from the length or width.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u40	I'll start with that last one. As far as I can reasonably do from my position, I have given an opening on the basis of Mrs Straus's interruption. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, I have indicated that this does not necessarily have to come from the Education budget. For part of the whole issue of asylum in general, the cabinet's starting point is not to charge it entirely to the regular budget, but to realize that there is extra money. To my knowledge, this has been a total of 600 million in 2015. I think that the Secretary of State also has a good reason to speak to his colleague in the finance department about what this means. That's what I'd recommend to him. Is he willing to do that? Should we perhaps come back to the issue of the Spring Note? Then we talk wider again; I am happy to do so. But I don't feel supported by the Secretary of State right now by the content. I think we'd prefer this. I acknowledge that we will still be discussing the question of coverage. That's really hard. I think we should be able to work that out. That the Secretary of State says he's actually doing enough, I find a strange signal. The Council of Ministers of the People's Republic of China raises this issue in a very compelling way. It is clear that the policy behind is related to the level of education of parents, but the level of education of highly educated Syrian refugees has no relation whatsoever to the problems of linguistic disadvantage and cultural backwardness. So that is not the solution, not the right instrument. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u41	We should not fool each other by saying that every refugee who comes here has a university degree. At least half of the refugee children have very low-educated parents. Those children are simply eligible for additional resources in all years after that. That is a much more generous arrangement than in secondary education. These funds are considerably increased, up to more than twice the amount of funding for children who are not eligible for this. So much is happening already. Mr Grashoff is asking for a second step on that. I have already said that I do not immediately see the need for this. We can differ politically on this, but I see that it has always gone well in previous years, and I do not see why it is not possible to deal with these arrangements now. Besides, I don't see any room for that. Mr Grashoff says that he has made suggestions for cover, but I would say: join forces with the proposers of the motion to tell in common where the cover should come from; then there is also a majority for that cover. Mr Grashoff says: let the deficit fall. I would not immediately be in favour of that, combined with the fact that I do not think it is necessary either. Mr Grashoff also says: take it from another budget. I see that my colleagues have questions as big as the Ministry of Education. The security budget is also subject to a financial seizure because of the increased number of asylum seekers and refugees in the Netherlands. My colleague from SZW is also talking about more refugees, i.e. greater seizure of means of integration and, for example, of assistance. You name it. My colleague from Finance does not have a money machine with which, when I come to him, he can still pay out a few bills. So my point is that I don't think this is necessary at the moment. I think this is over. It's not super critical, it's sober. We can provide for this, but if Mr Grashoff thinks it should be more, I would really invite him to tell us where it should come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u42	I have one more question. I thought you said you had the motion in part No. 20 wanted to take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u44	I note that there is no objection to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-01-tweedekamer-4.u45	The other motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
