ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Speaking time shall be three minutes. I call Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Access to medical care should be equally guaranteed for children. Everyone you say this to says, "Yes, of course." And yet there's something wrong with medical psychiatric care now. My first question to the Secretary of State is: does he agree that youth psychiatry is medical care and that access to that care should therefore also be guaranteed equally? Does he see the problems in this area? In any case, I, as a Member of Parliament, hear very disturbing noises. Waiting times are rising. I'm getting e-mail waiting times that are way above four weeks. That waiting period of four weeks was acceptable before 1 January 2015. Before 1 January 2015, the launch of the major healthcare changes introduced by this cabinet, we knew the so-called Treek standards in psychiatry. These were the permissible waiting times for a patient, which were agreed between healthcare providers, health insurers and patient organisations. Now those standards are being exceeded. I'm getting waiting times from different places in the country from six, eight or ten weeks. Why is that so bad now? It really is a misconception that everyone runs straight to the youth psychiatry. Often parents have been having problems for some time and it is unclear what is going on with their child. Then there's a social skills course, then there's another conversation at primary school. So when parents join the youth ggz, they often have a long time behind them. And if you have to wait another six, eight or fifteen weeks with your child, you can't actually have that. For the CDA, support for families and families is paramount, especially where there are major problems due to psychiatric complaints among the children. Behind all the technology that also comes along in this speech, this is the first step. Also for 2017, several municipalities announced cuts in youth care, while the total cut in 2015 to 2017 is only 15% on the macro budget. How is that possible? Does the Secretary of State want to investigate why municipalities cut much more than 15% on youth care so that they can understand what is actually going on? I hear from municipalities that the new distribution system leads to all kinds of discounts. I have another point. As in the case of domestic aid and day-to-day spending, we are also informed that the contracts that are being concluded are subject to tariffs which do not correspond to the quality that must be delivered. A fair economy also means paying a fair price for the work being done. In practice, this leads to the calving of specialist psychiatric care. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? Does he want to see what's going on here, too? Since Mrs Bergkamp of the D66 Group is present at a general discussion this morning, she asked me to ask these questions on her behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last weekend it was confirmed once again how much this debate is needed. Jonas, a 12-year-old boy, needs complex psychological help, but he's not getting into anything. His mother is driven to despair, as she has been sent from the cabinet to the wall for seven months, while her son is getting worse. In the Netherlands there are many children who need help just like Jonas, but who simply do not get help. What is the Secretary of State doing in the meantime? He keeps ten fingers on the wrist, he organizes consultation tables and holds municipalities to their youth aid duty, but that doesn't help Jonas to care. What can the Secretary of State say about all those fingers on the wrist to this mother, who has been sent from the locker to the wall for seven months? In his letter of November 2015, the State Secretary states that in exceptional cases waiting lists exist. I hope the Secretary of State will send Jonas' mother another answer. I checked the waiting lists again. At GGz Breburg it takes ten weeks for treatment to start. At De Bascule it takes 16 weeks. If your child is registered with Milldrift, it takes 22 weeks for his treatment to start. Let's settle that for a second. 22 weeks is five and a half months. Then we've already waved Sinterklaas off. How dare the Secretary of State say that there are only waiting lists in exceptional cases? We can easily replace Jonas with Louise who needs help because she has depression, or Ben who has aggression problems, or Ali who has anxiety disorder. All these kids are waiting for help, but they get out of sight because they're on waiting lists. We have always been blamed for being flat scared, but in the meantime more than 230 aldermen are also calling the alarm clock. The Secretary of State puts his head in the sand and doesn't want to know what's going on. He doesn't even want to map the waiting lists, while the promise under the Youth Act was so beautiful. Help would be offered to children, without bureaucracy, close by: one family, one plan, one director. That is why I would like to try to get a little closer in this debate. Both the SP and the Secretary of State want children to have care if they need it. Is that why we should just meet today? Let's agree that a child never has to wait more than six weeks for care. There is an intake and then the care is started. This six-week period has already been fixed with each other in the past, but it does not seem to apply anymore. Let's agree today that if you need care, you've had an intake within six weeks and the care has then started. If that doesn't work, we'll map out what the problem is. Is the municipality a problem? Does the care facility not provide enough care? Then we solve the problem, but there is one rule: the maximum period is six weeks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to meet with us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. A year ago Mrs Keijzer asked for this debate. Children who need specialist care are on a waiting list for months or sometimes a year. It is about people, children in this case, who have fallen between the spokes of government policy. The Kinder Ombudsman, an initiative of our President-in-Office, who left this debate behind for a year, has recently resounded. He concluded that one in three children had to wait more than two months and that 20% of them had increased their problems. Their business deserves to be discussed in this house instead of being put off for coalition interests. Nor is it the case that our Secretary of State picks up the cases and solves them, so that our debates become superfluous. Not only in 2015 it rained alarming reports, this year too, that's roughness and impact. I mentioned the Children's Ombudsman's report, but also in the Year's Report Monitor Transition Youth the alarm bell sounds. I&D Research concludes that there has been too little specialist knowledge since the introduction of the Youth Act, that there is no cooperation and that everything takes too long. The VNG recognises that 40% of the institutions are in financial difficulties due to dispaying municipalities, and in Medical Contact we read about the limitations of freedom of choice due to restricted contracting. There are great differences between regions and people's privacy is being violated, as local authorities haphazardly ask doctors for information that they are not entitled to at all. About the gigabureaucracy by 390 municipalities, which do everything differently, everyone sounds the alarm. But this place stays here for a year, and that's the saddest thing of all, I think. The parents of the children we are talking about today no longer know what to do with their children, that they need specialist help, that they have to wait a year for. Girls who have fallen victim to a lover boy without help. Children with anorexia who weaken every day, without help. Depressive young people with suicidal thoughts, without help. It'll just be your kid. This is yet another example of the failure of this Secretary of State's policy. Kids with problems don't get better help. There are long waiting lists for vulnerable children. Recording stops at the crisis shelter are threatening to fall and more and more institutions are threatening to fall. Also abused children end up on the waiting list. That's insane. They are vulnerable children, but they have not improved at all. There is no proper care. There is no customization and there is no concern whatsoever close to the citizen. Let the Secretary of State get rid of his chair and at least introduce Mrs Leijten's proposal, which I wholeheartedly endorse, that no longer than six weeks should be allowed to wait. We used to have these standards. That is what we had major debates on here. At least we could talk to the Secretary of State about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. As a member of the House of Representatives, you have people in your room every now and then. That's how I last had Maartje's parents in my room. They were desperate because they couldn't find a place for their daughter. It was not about the youth ggz that this debate was requested about, but about youth care. I'd like us to look at everything together. All youth assistance for all children must be accessible and accessible as soon as possible. It makes some parents distraught when things don't go well with what they love most: their child. That is terrible and sometimes the step to care is quite difficult, but very much needed. That is why we should not make this step any more difficult. We have previously abolished the parental contribution. That was one of the thresholds for parents to choose care. The waiting times are still not good enough. We have talked about this on several occasions. The Labour Party also believes that vulnerable children should receive appropriate assistance in good time. We must prevent children from sitting in the waiting room unnecessarily. Long waiting lists, allowing children to fall between shore and ship, are unacceptable. Parents and their children want to be heard and supported. The best interests of the child go beyond other interests. During the previous general consultation, we therefore advocated a perseverance force, organised by the responsible municipalities, client organisations and parents, which can move forward if those concerned fail to organise the appropriate assistance for children in good time. The right solution must be sought from the best interests of the child. Secondly, I have called for all waiting lists to be made public. Then parents will know where they are knocking and what the waiting list is at the institution in question. Then the municipality can also change its purchasing policy accordingly. Thirdly, I have spoken about Treek standards. Mr Keijzer also mentioned this. The Treek standards should be applied. Or is the General Law governing administrative law? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. In any case, we must ensure that children and parents who are stuck in access to youth aid are helped as quickly as possible. The first line can help with that as well. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: to what extent does he see it as a solution if knowledge and expertise from the second line goes more towards the first line, so that you don't even need the second line if necessary, but children will be helped as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. I hope that we will take a step further here today. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think that's a bit of a shame. We can publish the waiting lists. They all do. I could list a list of settings that don't. Well, there's a lot that do. That is why I was able to list a list and that is why we can also wipe the floor with the Secretary of State, who says that it only applies in exceptional cases. For example, they have a waiting list at Curium in Leiden. On the website there are several waiting times, some really from a few months. It also says: we cannot say exactly what that means for your child, because it varies from region to region. People from the Hague region are helped faster than people from the Central Netherlands region. It depends on the municipality's purchasing policy. There you are with your kid with borderline. There you are with your child with suicidal thoughts. Do you have to move? Is that the idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	What an idiotic question I'm being asked here. Do you have to move? Of course not! We must ensure that children throughout the Netherlands receive the right help on time. I have called for this in various debates, and I have done so together with Mrs Leijten. I see that there is an incentive for institutions to keep waiting lists up, and I would like that incentive to disappear. That's why I want the waiting lists made public. They are not public everywhere, and they are not topical everywhere. I believe that this should be done, because that is the only way to ensure that both parents and municipalities have the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	I think it really sucks that the passion of the Labour Party can be seen when it comes to waiting lists that are or are not published by healthcare institutions, which is not there when it comes to tackling municipalities that do not buy enough. Or a secretary of state who sits around when all Treek standards are exceeded everywhere. And by the way, the Labour Party does not even want a national registration of the waiting lists! Hear, see and see, that's the Secretary of State's policy, and you stand by and look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	I don't. Would you like to speak through the chairman, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	The Labour Party then blames the healthcare providers, who are doing their best, and all those psychiatrists who are embarrassed to say to parents: we can't help you, and we can't help your child.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	I'm not here to see Mrs. Leijten. Nor do I stand before the municipalities or any other institution or organisation. I'm standing here for the kids. I think those kids should get the right care in time. I have devoted all the debates so far to that, as Mrs Leijten knows very well, and I will continue to do so, despite all the allegations that I am getting thrown at my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs. Leijten still? You're being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	It sounds wonderful, but we introduced a law a year and a half ago, which we had dealt with extensively here. I have heard a lot of concerns in all kinds of debates and the waiting lists are increasing! It just happens that children with borderline and suicidal thoughts have to wait for months. It happens that parents don't see their child being helped, but that they see their child getting worse. So yes, there is a lot of passion with Mrs Ypma and the Labour Party, but there are few measures and that is the sad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	That is special, I am often accused of having many measures taken. Let us be clear, Mr President, that we have discussed this issue on several occasions. It's about getting these kids the right help in time. In some children this is necessary within a day, if they are suicidal, while for other children it is possible after two or three weeks. I have insisted very often on this Treek norm and I would also like a response from the Secretary of State. I think it is right for Mr Keijzer to have brought this up, and you too have set a deadline for this, Mrs Leijten. But we must stick to the debate. Let me just leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	Cheap, cheap. Mrs. Ypma wants to be in first grade for a dime. The children must all be given care, but they do not allow them to tap almost half a billion euros out of the Youth Act. That's the honest story, the Mantra of the Labour Party! Then be as open as the VVD, which simply says: people in care, go, all gone, gone, gone. At least we'll know what we stand for! No, the Labour Party says that all children must be helped, but it is just as short of 450 million from the sector. I can't and it won't work. I had the honor of becoming a Member of Parliament ten years ago. Then there was another secretary of state. Her name was Ross and she was from the CDA. She also realized that it really couldn't be what those waiting lists were about. And what did she do? She pulled her wallet. Those were the Ross resources. This is what the Labour Party should do. Is the Labour Party prepared to draw the wallet to actually solve the problem of waiting lists for these children?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	The question is, do you solve this with extra money? Mrs. Agema knows that very well. It is necessary that the right assessment is made in good time: what does this child need at the moment? And we need to scale up in time and give the right care. I have therefore argued for this in several debates. Extremely important is customer support that moves very quickly next to the parents, ensuring that parents are heard, that makes them feel supported and can help them. Yeah, if I had a magic wand, maybe I'd pull extra money too. But I have never seen you pay extra money for this in any budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yes, I do. That remark is factually incorrect, and I take it very seriously. We have covered this in our electoral programme. So that's false, incorrect. If you were merely a youth spokesperson, you could have known what other parties thought about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mrs. Agema, I am not a youth spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	No, I'm referring to the spokesperson standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes, I will, Mr. Chairman. Anyway, Mrs. Ypma wants to be in first grade for a dime. She keeps repeating the mantra that everything gets better. It's an idiom. It's not true. If you tell people that everything's gonna get better, that's a lie. It's their kids on the waiting list. It's their kids who aren't being helped. You need to pull the wallet. You too must do so, chairman, because you are of the VVD. But surely the spokesman of the Labour Party must draw the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	You shouldn't appeal to me in that quality. I'm neutral and I'm guarding the rules of the game. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	Yeah, well, you've just ruined my interruption. Do you want me to repeat it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	I asked if the Labour Party is prepared to pull the wallet, to put aside the idiom that makes everything better, to keep the lie off the table that everything will get better with a cut of EUR 450 million and to put former Secretary of State Ross in mind. She did come up with extra money, because she knew you'd only solve the waiting list problem with extra money. That's especially true if you have to do that right now, acutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think it would be good if Mrs Agema were also honest in saying that during the various budgets the PVV did not allocate extra money to youth care. That's not true. No proposal has been made. You can leave that with me, Mrs Agema, but you must also look at yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	I say again that this is factually incorrect. In our election programme we covered this and I can make the noise I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	Of course. It is the right of every Member of Parliament to make a noise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	Actually!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mrs. Ypma first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	I covered it in my budget. Since Mrs Ypma is only a spokesperson on the Youth Act, she could have known that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mrs Agema, would you be so kind as to allow Mrs Ypma to speak when I give the floor. You'll just get the chance after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	We have discussed the new Youth Act here for three days. I remember when the PVV had requested ten hours of speaking time. In fact, Mrs Agema spoke here for a few minutes. She's not interested in the improvements. I had a hundred proposals to make sure youth care gets better. However, Mrs Agema did not come up with anything. I'm sorry, but I'm really disappointed about that. Mrs Agema, if you come up with a budget proposal for youth care, I will, of course, take a favourable look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	Once again, in our election programme, we are not cutting back to EUR 450 million. That's what the Labour Party does. And the Labour Party lies to the people by saying that everything will be better. That is factual, and not everything else Mrs Ypma is referring to. No, I didn't think the Youth Act should be introduced by now. I thought we should experiment with rules first to see if we could. And now we see that it can't be done. We see that it makes things worse for children who need help. And now it is up to the Labour Party to "pick" that bag of money that we have already "drawn" in our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	It is really very disappointing that Mrs Agema refers to the past in which an average of 14 aid workers were living in a family. The parents no longer saw the forest through the trees and the children were not helped in time. No matter how you turn it or turn it around, the kids are getting helped before. I'm not saying the waiting lists have been lifted. In that respect, you have a point. I have just said a number of things about this. But it's not true that in the past it was better with youth care. That is a very conservative position, which is not in the best interests of the children either. We've been talking about the new Youth Act here for three days. In that debate, as the Labour Party, we tried to put children's interests at the centre, just like the SP and the CDA and the VVD, but the PVV did not make any proposals. That is what this is all about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'm going back to June 2016, to today. The members of the SP and the PVV accuse the PvdA group of saying very warm words about parents and children with problems, but that they do not take any concrete measures. What has changed today in this discussion about the waiting list for youth psychiatry, which has been discussed by the PvdA and what has been achieved by the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	Let us be clear: this debate was requested a year ago. We have already discussed this issue three times. This is what we are doing again in plenary. I am happy to give Mrs Keijzer the opportunity to do so, and that is why I am standing here. I have already proposed six different measures in all previous debates. I will not repeat all six of them, but the three I have repeated here today are: to make the waiting lists public, to ensure that there is a perseverance among the municipalities to ensure that children receive the right help in time and apply the Treek standards, or to make the General Law governing the administration of the law, and to ensure that the children within a certain period called Mrs Keijzer four weeks and Mrs Leijten six weeks receive the help they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	The waiting lists are not published everywhere, the perseverance is not yet there and until today the Secretary of State refuses to apply these Treek standards in such a way that children will then also receive the care they need. I have a motion ready and I have also sent it to Mrs Ypma. She'll put her name under it, because then we'll have a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	I do not believe that this motion has yet been tabled, nor have I heard any response from the Secretary of State. I have indicated very clearly what I think should be done, namely that vulnerable children should receive the help they deserve as soon as possible. In fact, I assume that the Secretary of State will accept that suggestion and that he will work on it. If that does not happen, I will look at the motion and perhaps co-sign her as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	Mr. Chairman. As a father or a mother, you only want one thing when your son or your daughter isn't well: you just want if you knock on the door somewhere, support is offered, at least there's a good conversation going on and if it's much more serious, there'll be good youth support. You also want the cause of the problem to be removed. Sometimes you can't, you know that too, because it's very serious, but then you at least want to handle it and get help to deal with it, so that your child gets the help you want, because that's the most important thing in your life. If a young person has the courage to address past abuses, I am thinking of child abuse, which often leads to mental problems, but is then put on a waiting list, then that is very frustrating. Which brings me to my question. How come there are waiting lists in the youth ggz? I actually want an answer to that, because we have arranged it so that the general practitioner can refer it to the medical specialist, especially with the youth-ggz. And it's always the youth ggz that comes with the waiting lists. How is it possible that there are waiting lists, because there is a duty to provide youth assistance and with such a referral there is simply a right to care in the case of heavier care. So how is that possible? The money cannot be the reason, because if heavy care is needed, the municipality must simply provide that care. We took care of that. I want an answer to the question as to how the youth-ggz cannot help these children and put them on the waiting list. That's my first question. I find this very remarkable. It is precisely for the youth ggz that we have arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	During the debate on the Youth Act, we indeed arranged for the general practitioners to be able to refer directly and for the municipality to accept this. We see that it is not happening and that the waiting lists are rising; Mrs van der Burg sees that as well. After a referral from a general practitioner, there are still many requirements imposed by a municipality. With regard to all possible requirements with regard to the principle of residence, would it be okay to have the double signature of parents, which is sometimes a problem because parents are divorced or, in foster care, because the parents live far away or perhaps do not have contact with the child, to ask the Secretary of State: Dear Secretary of State, make sure that that goes through? Shouldn't we accept that anymore? In my view, that is one of the problems, apart from the Treek standards. What does Mrs Van der Burg say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	I ask the Secretary of State how it is possible that a sector served in a very decent manner in the Youth Act should make sure that these children with serious problems can be referred to and that care can always be provided without any care. You are now making a number of points. You have also listed a whole list of waiting times with all kinds of settings. I just want an answer to this. Yes, it may happen that in very complex cases it is the residence principle, but I wonder if there is no more going on. I'm not going into small measures, I just want to know from the Secretary of State what's going on. In various debates I have put my finger on the spot and I just want to know if the Secretary of State has spoken with the sector about how we are going to solve this. It can't be that we're abandoning the parents and children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	I couldn't agree more. I've heard the same thing from all the spokesmen. In that respect, it's profit. I do not want the Secretary of State to be stuck with an investigation, because then I do know what happens: a year of research will be done, but we have not helped a child or taken off the waiting list for too long. That's not what Mrs. Van der Burg is trying to do, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	I thought Mrs Leijten knew me better. If research is needed, it is necessary, but I am not of the investigations in the sense of slowing down. I want to know what's going on, precisely because of the position of this sector. Every time there are waiting lists. I honestly don't understand that those waiting lists are there, given the position of this sector. I just want an answer to that. Maybe there's a very good answer to that, too. Then I'm in default, but I'd like to raise this. You could have waiting lists anywhere. We also talked about Safe Home. It should be better, but in that case, I still understand. In this case, however, I really do not understand. I just want an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	The Kinderombudsman wrote in his last report before he said goodbye, that the youth ggz institutions do not see it as their responsibility, if they have no place, to refer or say to a parent: go to another institution that has purchased. Has the Secretary of State agreed with the sector on this, so that it does? I thought this sector, like us in the House of Representatives, felt that children deserve help as soon as possible. So you don't put a child on a waiting list, you refer to a colleague. Specialists attached to the Centres for Sexual Violence in the Chamber have we fought for the arrival of these centers and Psytrec indicate that children in the youth ggz with trauma or post-traumatic stress syndrome are not treated according to the guidelines. I've asked questions about that before. Has that conversation taken place by now? I believe that a sector has to abide by the directives. I would like to know as soon as possible, preferably today but otherwise at least before 30 June, how things stand. I also want to know how it is that there is constant stabilisation in the youth ggz. That means you come in with a trauma and they say you're too bad; we need to stabilize you instead of treating the cause so you can get on with your life. At least it is said that this is the case. I want to know if that is true and if so, what is being done in the sector to change that. Or is this not true at all? If that's the case, I want this off the table, too. I just want us to give children and parents the help and support they need, as provided for in the Youth Act. I await the answers of the Secretary of State with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u47	The Secretary of State must, of course, prepare those answers. For that, I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mr. Chairman. This 30-member debate was requested exactly a year ago. Mrs Ypma has rightly said that we have spoken on this subject a number of times over the last period. Following the signals we received in June last year, immediate consultations were held with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. I informed the Chamber in the progress letter of 6 July on the reaction of the municipalities. I have indicated what we would do with these signals. We discussed this in the general discussions on 6 October and 30 March. I believe that we should talk regularly about waiting lists and the discussion on waiting lists to see if things are going well. Moreover, this is a debate of all times, Mrs Ross has been cited, because we have been talking for a number of years about the question of what are waiting lists, what are responsible waiting lists and what are the causes of these waiting lists? That is a point made by Mrs van der Burg. I'm separating two perspectives. On the one hand, you see that there are local waiting lists and then it's the question that causes them. I'll deal with that later. On the other hand, the question is: what are the facts and what is the situation, is there a different problem, is it something we always struggle with or is it all new? It might be good to get those facts straight. The CBS figures on the use of youth aid do not show a significant reduction in the use of youth aid. According to the CBS, over 360,000 children received youth assistance in 2015 and in 2014 this figure was about the same. So you can't say in general that fewer children get youth aid. In the progress report that the Chamber will receive shortly, I will go into those figures from the CBS for 2015. Following these signals, we asked the Healthcare Authority to look again at the potential growth of the waiting lists and to see if there is a difference between 2014 and 2015. The Court received that specific market scan from the ggz about the waiting times in 2015. This shows that there have been no major changes in the waiting lists for both young people and adults compared to 2014. The login time between registration and intake call was above the Treek norm for both young people and adults; this was also the case in 2014. The treatment delay set at ten weeks in the Treek standards was slightly shorter. I would like to point out that these are averages. This does not mean that there are no waiting lists that we say: how can this be done? This is the general picture. The Chamber received the NZa's market scan by letter dated 26 May. She has now discussed the results with the Minister during the general consultation on mental health care. In addition, we are holding separate consultations with the branches, the municipalities and the Transition Authority on how things are going and whether there are relevant signals with which we should do something. Both the VNG and the Transition Authority did not send any signals on request that there was a general increase in waiting times; again, regardless of local and regional differences. GGZ Nederland announced at the beginning of this year an increase in the number of crisis areas and added that it would be good to look at the cause of this. This is currently being examined at my request by a number of municipalities. This is an answer to Mrs Keijzer's question as to whether I would at least like to examine exactly what is going on here. I expect the results of the study to be available by 30 October. Then we can also look at how this can be explained in qualitative terms. That is the question that Mrs Keijzer quite rightly asked. What actions have been taken or are underway to ensure that we keep a close eye on the waiting list issue and see if we can take action? I assume that we agree that children should not fall between shore and ship due to too long waiting times. Municipalities and branches have confirmed to me that children who cannot wait for help are treated with priority. If at that time there is no place for a particular provider, for example because the contract is not yet good or because the provider is too full, the municipality or the buyer must provide for a "waitlist mediation" and ensure that there is a place. Children who have to wait for psychiatric care because there is no place for them, are in any case given outpatient help. At least help will be provided. That's actually what Mrs van der Burg said. If you have to wait for help for your child, if the child doesn't have a place right away and you wonder what's going on and whether you can be helped already, then at least there is a helping hand. The issue of Treek standards has also been discussed extensively. As a result of the signals, I have, of course, already discussed this with the VNG, including the members of the VNG Committee on Decentralisation of Youth Services. The Treek standards are also the starting point for the municipalities. I would like to draw your attention to the reports from the VNG on this subject. In an opinion of 29 March, the VNG called once again for the attention of all municipalities: use the Treek standards in the procurement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Secretary of State, for those who follow us at home, it might be good to explain Treek standards once. The Treek standards are agreements made at the Den Treek estate. I don't know exactly what those appointments are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u50	Let me put it simply. These are agreements made with the sector on reasonable waiting times. This concerns, on the one hand, the time between the intake and the time at which the application is processed and, on the other hand, the time that can reasonably be waited before the treatment starts. As we know, these deadlines are different. The login time is four weeks and the treatment time is ten weeks. I see that more and more municipalities apply these standards. We have already made agreements with the municipalities. At the beginning of July, I again discussed this with the VNG. Then it will be considered what the state of play is and whether we should agree with the municipalities to tighten up their procurement policy for 2017. I am actually in favour of this, in the sense that I see that there are rather sharp contracts in a number of regions. Those contracts state that the Treek standards are being applied. If a provider signals that he's not gonna make it, he's gonna have to contact the municipality. The municipality can then see what it can do about it: should it be "contracted" or should it be contacted with another provider who does have a place? At least the child will be helped. I am in favour of the Treek standards playing a greater role in procurement policy. That's also what the VNG advises. The transparency of the waiting lists is indeed quite important. Mrs Van der Burg and Mrs Ypma also pointed this out. The disclosure of waiting times is not just a transparency thing; it creates clarity for pointers, for clients and for municipalities. Pointers who know what the waiting times are know what this means for their referral policy and to whom they can refer. It also means something to clients, who know in advance where they can go if they are in a hurry. It also means something for the purchasing policies of the municipalities. I think that the transparency of the waiting lists should simply be regulated. You see that more and more. Municipalities can make agreements with the providers. You can already see it in a number of settings. I have a number of examples to show that institutions are prepared to do so. However, it is very good to make further agreements with municipalities on this matter and to see if they can integrate this into their procurement policy. I shall now turn to a further point of inquiry, partly in the light of Mrs Keijzer's comment. At my request, the Dutch Youth Institute will launch a further study looking for an explanation of regional differences. I can see that some good agreements have been made: what do we do with waiting times, what happens if they are likely to be exceeded and what waiting list mediation can be provided by the municipality? However, there are also regions which seem to be struggling with this. It's kind of what's bothering Mrs. Van der Burg. She asked how that could be done, given the juvenile duty there is. That can therefore be settled in principle. Together with the Dutch Youth Institute, I want to see if there are major differences between municipalities and regions, what are the causes and how they are handled in practice. We will get the results of that research in the course of 2017. Sometimes this is determined locally or regionally, sometimes it is linked to the variety of interventions and sometimes, let us also note, it is simply linked to the popularity of the provider. However, it may also be related to non-smart purchasing arrangements made by municipalities and healthcare providers. I'd like to know. It is very important that it is also agreed that referrals can be made, and that is where the point is. If a healthcare provider is full or gets a waiting list and gets a registration, he should actually indicate it. You can imagine he'd have hesitation in that. He might think, "I'm getting a client signed in," but I have to say that it has to go to someone else because I'm full. But it shouldn't be like this. It is about the importance of the child and help is needed. I think that in such a situation the trade-off can and should be professional. We need to make arrangements for this. If people have to wait, something can be arranged, but another healthcare provider may have a place. It's really incredibly important that that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u51	Do I just hear the Secretary of State say that there's no reason for waiting lists at an institution? That was actually my commitment to this debate. 'Cause I really don't get it. We've arranged for every institution to be able to treat a child. If it's serious, the municipality has to pay. What's the deal? Every time in the media, we're told there are waiting lists. We hear cases of parents and children falling between shore and ship and desperate. How can that and what are we going to do about this? And don't let the Secretary of State come up with all kinds of administratively burdensome methods, just say that this is being solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mrs van der Burg, of course, has a point to make, in the sense that we have put in place a definitive system in the legislation and regulations. After all, there is a youth aid obligation for the municipality. Municipalities have to buy for this. There are a number of references, for example for the social district team, the youth doctor or the general practitioner. A separate channel has been created for the general practitioner. Reference is therefore made, aid must be bought in and if there is too little of it, it must be contracted or otherwise. So that is settled, but I really do not want to be satisfied with that. Mrs van der Burg is right about her question: if we have all arranged this, how can we have waiting lists? There may be several reasons for this. It could be a problem with the purchase of the municipality. It would also be wrong not to refer the matter to the Court of Justice, when that is the case. It is also possible that the demand for youth ggz develops differently, although according to the market scan of the TAJ and that of the Dutch Healthcare Authority this is not the case. But I'm not going to accept this. I am going to find out why this is not a problem in some regions, because there are good agreements and contracts, and apparently in other regions. I just want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u53	In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State wants to know this, but I would like to go a step further. Because I've been asking these questions for a while now and actually I'm getting more and more angry that this is happening, that we're just gonna abandon those parents and kids. Can't the inspection even pay particular attention to what's going on here? This generally works very well in other sectors. I know the inspection is already doing a lot. Maybe she is already doing so, but otherwise I would like to be given the assurance that the inspection will take a step forward at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u54	Let me see if I understand Mrs. Van der Burg correctly. The inspection must take account of the quality of youth assistance. One part of this is that there are no unacceptable waiting lists or that the organisation of the institutions is not such as to create unnecessary waiting lists or to misdirect them. I actually think that's a good point. I think that, in view of the quality of the youth ggz, we should look at whether the inspection can also have a better view of the institutions, so that we can know why it is happening well at one institution and not at the other. So I am very prepared to include this with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u55	If the inspection is to be checked, she must know what to do. We've always had Treek standards for that. Those Treek standards work in all kinds of different ways. The Secretary of State said that in regions where good agreements on waiting lists have been made, there is a more active referral to each other. There you can also see that the waiting lists are less rapid. We can learn from that that we must do so in all regions. If we define how long the waiting period should be, then the inspection can also be maintained, but then we have to set it up again. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say it's settled in six weeks? That was actually my only question. If that is not possible, it is necessary to consider the cause of this, for example that there is too little capacity, that there is too little buy-in or that there is no referral. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reset Treek standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mrs Leijten is talking about re-establishing the Treek standards. How did Treek standards work and work? Healthcare buyers and providers, the sector, sit together and see what they think is reasonable. That must be the starting point for their actions and procurement policy. These standards are then applied. That's how Treek standards work. I note that the VNG also wants the Treek standards to work that way. That is why we have raised this issue. The VNG has issued an opinion on this matter to the municipalities. Next month I will talk to the municipalities about the state of their procurement policy. Is that enough in order? I think the Treek standards are a very good tool. It has also been shown that they can be a good instrument. If these standards are not met or are likely to be met, there must be contact between the healthcare providers and the buyers to see what to do. Do they have to sign up or refer or is there something else going on? I promote the use of Treek standards in the procurement policy of the municipalities. That's the road we need to go on. I am very much in favour of that. That is exactly the item on the agenda that I would like to discuss with the VNG in the coming month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u57	This Secretary of State is a system operator. A debate on this was requested exactly a year ago. A year later, it's just as topical. Apparently, no action is being taken at the Secretary of State's request. Waiting list appointments are made in each region. If you're system manager, you just say, "I'll make sure those waiting list appointments are set." I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. I don't want to hear him talk, that it's an item on the agenda and that he's looking at it, but that he's not gonna do anything. No, he has to say he's not fast enough and that Treek standards are there by the end of the summer. If the region has already taken care of it, it doesn't matter. A little more urgency would be nice with this secretary of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u58	By the way, I'm talking to the municipalities in a different tone than you just said. I'm usually not so hesitant at this point. Let me deal with the responsibilities. The city needs to buy in. The municipalities, through their organisation, the VNG, have said that they consider Treek standards to be very important. These standards are the starting point for their policies. That's what the VNG said to all the municipalities. In practice, you can see that there are similar agreements in a lot of contracts. I have here, for example, contracts from the Hague region, Twente and IJsselland. Sometimes it says that the contracting parties contact each other if waiting lists are likely to arise so that they can see what to do. Other contracts refer directly to the deadlines set out in the Treek standards. Both appointments can work. I think these Treek standards are important, because they are objective standards that come from the sector. For my part, therefore, I would also like to strongly promote that they are part of the procurement policy of the municipalities. I note that the UNG wants that, too. In July, I will talk again about what this means for the 2017 procurement policy. I am confident that the agreements will lead to the use of the Treek standards or to final agreements on what happens if the agreements are exceeded irresponsiblely. As a result, the responsibility remains with the municipalities, but we agree that it takes place within acceptable limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mrs. Leijten, only if you would like something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u60	It remains the responsibility of the municipalities and I am looking for the system responsibility of this Secretary of State. We've been on the road for a year and a half, and apparently this isn't coming off the ground. One more chat, that's fine, but there's a deadline to be set. I propose that the Secretary of State should say: if the municipalities have not arranged it in their region by the end of the summer, there will be national Treek standards that everyone has to comply with. Does the Secretary of State want to do that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u61	Not in this way, because then we are going to take over something that is actually the responsibility of the municipalities, while at the same time we are seeing a movement in which agreements are being made between municipalities and healthcare providers on what are acceptable deadlines and on what happens if those deadlines are threatened with being exceeded. Isn't that how we're supposed to work with each other? In fact, I think it is right that the debate should also start on whether there should not be many more forms of youth aid and youth care that are different from those that exist within the current supply. This may lead to different arrangements for the provision of services. I note that there is a great willingness on the part of the municipalities to make these agreements. It is also exactly the point they are concerned with, namely that they also want to provide good help to children in time. Part of this is how to buy care for 2017. I think it is important to ensure that good agreements are made on this subject using the Treek standards. Where we see that there are problems or there are persistent signals about them, there are two things that I am also a little still from this debate. On the one hand, that is Mrs Keijzer's question as to whether I am prepared to investigate how regional differences and the causes of them can be found. I have indicated at that point that I am indeed prepared to take that floor. On the other hand, there is Mrs van der Burg's question as to how certain institutions are apparently unable to deal with this. Well, let's take a look at that, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mrs. Keijzer wants to interrupt. Let's try not to repeat moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u63	I have another question, although if I listen to the Secretary of State and I look at the overview, I have to say that only the four-week Treek standard is reached at the Rivierenland region, but that is not the case. Is the investigation that the Secretary of State has just announced also about the point I mentioned earlier? This concerns the fact that healthcare institutions, as well as municipalities, indicate that they will have to cut their purchases by 10% to 15% by 2017, which will have an irrevocable effect on the amount of youth care available in those municipalities. That's so weird because the discount on the macro budget was only 15% in three years. Is the Secretary of State going to find out how municipalities might feel compelled to cut down around 15% by 2015 and a similar high percentage for 2016 and 2017? I am very interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u64	This is taken into account, but with the following remark. Municipalities, healthcare providers and the industry have examined with each other the developments in youth aid. How, for example, can we ensure that heavy care is reduced afterwards and that preventive care at the front becomes a little stronger? In fact, the sector of youth aid providers and the VNG have indicated that this could be a movement that is around 30%. In these purchasing arrangements, we will slowly but surely see a decline in the residential supply and an increase in the outpatient supply. I may say it a little too simple now, but that is the movement that is being made and will also be seen in procurement policy in the coming years. It may mean that some institutions face larger discounts because of that shift from intramural to extramural. The signal that there is a higher reduction somewhere than that on the macro-budget may be true, but this should not, in general, lead to a failure to fulfil the obligation of youth aid. For example, it may prove that a municipality does not have a good purchasing policy. Well, that's got to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u65	I see all these nuances too, but at the same time I see the crisis placements rising. That's weird. It may be that a municipality does not purchase sufficient specialist care, because it does not need that care. Well, that's good then. But if that leads to more crisis placements, then it goes wrong. I understand the Secretary of State answers my question with "yes." He is going to see how much more savings are being made in municipalities than the reduction in the macro budget. This is also important for the question of where the waiting lists come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u66	I would like to emphasise Mrs Keijzer's point. Mrs Keijzer asked a question about the increase in the number of crisis situations. How is that possible? Is the access not properly arranged or is the purchasing policy not good? I told you we should look into that. At my request, a number of municipalities will examine the basis for this. I hope that research will be available by 30 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u67	That's nice, but will the Secretary of State also look into purchasing outpatient youth care? I hear the same sounds about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u68	That's exactly the movement we need to make with each other. If we find that it is wise for many reasons that we do less residential and more out-of-arms, then of course it must be in line with each other. That must be a bit of a directed path, too. The development of this is slightly different from region to region. That is exactly why I am talking to the municipalities about this and doing that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u69	The Secretary of State continues his speech, but I believe that he has already given a number of answers in response to interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u70	I'll see if there are any specific questions. Mrs Keijzer has asked if ggz is medical care. Yeah, ggz is medical care. But we do see that new balances are being sought between extramural and intramural. I just answered her question about the cuts. It also asked a specific question on tariffs. That's what the Transition Authority has been investigating. It notes that the contracted tariffs are broadly stable compared to the tariffs in 2015 especially in the case of specialist services in 2016. The Transition Authority for Youth also keeps its fingers on the wrist there. In my opinion, I have already given sufficient consideration to the debate on the Treek standards. The same applies to the contractual arrangements. This was my first-term input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u71	I see that Mrs Van der Burg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u72	I did ask a few other questions, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u73	I see the Secretary of State has found it by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u74	Is that right? Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u75	Let me try. We have already discussed the possible causes of the waiting lists. Mrs van der Burg asked a specific question about PTSD, namely whether the sector complies with the directives. I imagine I'm just going to take a look at what's going on. Mrs Van der Burg has asked for further information before 30 June. I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u76	It seems very serious to me if the sector does not comply with its own directives. If that is the case, then action must be taken on it or it must be eliminated. In both cases, that is valuable. I have also spoken about the specialists of the Centres of Sexual Violence and of, for example, Psytrec. They're professors, people who've been promoted. In determining trauma and finding that people suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome, policy and training in the Netherlands are aimed at stabilising in particular. We've talked about that before. One does not take away the problem. This is happening to the great despair of people who have been in the aid for 16 years, who see all kinds of aid, from aid to an eating disorder to know what, in the ggz, but who are not being helped. It is only in an organization like a Centre Sexual Violence or Psytrec that the real problem is addressed. Those specialists tell me that nowhere in the scientific literature has been established that you need to stabilize. On the contrary. So I just want the Secretary of State to sit down with these parties and with the regular ggz, who apparently thinks otherwise. I think the Secretary of State has agreed to that, too. I think it is important that we help people and that we do not just keep pumping people around in the system and just stabilize them. Let us be clear: we do not want people to lose hope and take a step that we all do not want, but we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u77	That's exactly why I'm underlining that it's a serious point. I will come back to this in a separate letter which I would like to send to the Chamber before 30 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'd like the Secretary of State to do that, but is he going to have a conversation? I think it's time. After all, we have talked about this before. Will the Secretary of State also write about this in the letter of 30 June?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u79	I have a brief answer to that: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u80	This brings you to the end of the reply. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u81	Can we suspend for a few minutes? 'Cause I'm gonna have to change a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u82	Is five minutes enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u83	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u84	I shall suspend the sitting a little longer, because the discussions between Members of Parliament have not yet been concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. We are not yet entirely satisfied with the way in which the Secretary of State wishes to deal with the Treek standards, and I am going to table a motion on that. It's too much in the vein of "I'm gonna go in consultation with..." The VNG website says that the Treek standards are the basis. We need a little more strength in this. A year ago, I requested this debate. We are now a year ahead, and the waiting lists are still long; longer than the so-called Treek standards. Those are agreements about how long someone can wait for help. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that Treek standards should apply to youth aid;]] [[calls on the Government, together with healthcare providers, municipalities and patient organisations to set Treek standards for access to the Youth Act, interpreting the duty of youth assistance in such a way as to require healthcare institutions to have a waiting list and to mediate to another healthcare provider if the waiting period is longer than the Treek norm indicates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer, Mr Ypma, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-522]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u86	The motion may also be co-signed by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u87	"Maybe" we don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u88	I have a question about the motion. Of course, it sounds good: drawing up Treek standards, which we had in the past. They must be maintained, what happened in the past. I'll jiggle a little bit about when to do this. I know the Secretary of State: he embraces everything and then says "the field can figure it out nicely." I need to know when we've arranged this. Should this be settled at the end of the summer, so that it can begin on 1 January? How does the petitioner feel about that? That determines whether I want to put my name under it or whether I think: sympathetic, but it doesn't go far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u89	Actually, I think that's a nice planning. It is now mid-June: if this motion is adopted, give the Secretary of State the summer time to establish it. It is not that complicated, because, as Mrs Leijten says, Treek standards have always applied. Then they can go in as soon as possible. I think that would benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u90	In that case, I will gladly have my name added to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u91	It will have to be changed for this purpose, which is a separate route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u92	I have a question for clarification. It says that youth aid providers must indicate that they have a waiting list. They know their own sector best and they are the specialists at that time. Do they have to give advice where parents can take their children? This does not have to be binding, but at least they can give advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yeah, that's definitely the point. Otherwise, as the father and mother of a child with psychiatric problems, you're still empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr. Chairman. There should be nothing more simple for a Secretary of State than simply saying: there is a time limit within which someone should be given care. Whether it's a municipal task or not, there's an acceptable deadline. That deadline is not set by the municipality and by the providers, but by the State Secretary. It's called system responsibility. This is a bit like: seeing someone thirsty and saying "I think you should water." To which he says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then the Secretary of State doesn't say "someone's gonna water" but "you're gonna have to talk to each other until someone's gonna water." If you wait too long, someone's dehydrated. Then you're just late. That's what the Secretary of State does in all his policies. I welcome the motion in which it is said that there should simply be another standard, that standard should be applied and that it should not be another standard in Pekela or in Middelburg. You just get the care you need within a decent time frame. Then you can say, "We're gonna throw our heads together if it doesn't work out." Then the municipality does not have to blame the institutions and the institutions do not have to blame the municipality; then the interest of the child is paramount, because that is why the standard has been set, for which we have a Secretary of State. That he is not prepared to do so on his own, but needs a Chamber to force him to do so, that says very, very much about the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u95	Then I can give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV Group. I see she's refusing the word.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u96	I co-signed Mrs Keijzer's motion. That is enough, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you very much for this explanation. I call Mrs Ypma on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u98	Same goes for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you for this explanation. I call Mrs van der Burg of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitments. We are going to debate again on 30 June. In any case, one of the commitments will be given further information. I think it is very important that we not only investigate, but that we actually have the inspection check things that we have arranged. I really don't understand that children aren't being helped. After all, it is properly regulated in the law. The fact that there would be no money is not a reason either, because it has to be paid. I really do not understand that this is not just happening and we have to look at how we are tackling the cause of the problem. The inspection seems to me to be an excellent opportunity to shed light on that, so thank you for that. Another point that sometimes comes along here is the perseverance force. What about the independent customer support? We've arranged it in the law. I also know that this is not equally well arranged in all the municipalities, but it seems to me to be the ideal instrument for putting parents and children in a position with the municipality and the youth workers. Can the Secretary of State state state what's going on with that? We've talked about that before. Can he tell us how we're gonna make sure that's taken care of? We don't have to double-check everything. We've laid down a law. That law must now be implemented and people must abide by it. If this does not happen, the inspection must be carried out in order to monitor and take action. Can the Secretary of State answer that? Maybe the inspection can take that in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u101	That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. Can he answer immediately? That's the case. But Mrs Leijten has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u102	I have a technical question for you, Mr. Chairman. If an ongoing debate is said to change a motion or to add a signatory, then there is no need to table an amended motion. Then it can be processed, can't it? I think that's the procedure. When the debate is closed, you really need to table an amended motion, but I'm looking at the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u103	It is somewhat diffuse, but it is possible to do it as you wish. So those names are added to the signatories and that motion is now part of the debate, because I am now saying so at your request. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Chairman. Two questions have been asked. I confirm to Mrs Van der Burg what she asked about the inspections. I'll be sure to. Indeed, I believe that customer support can play an important role. The subject of perseverance is exactly the point I would like to discuss with the VNG and, by the way, with the client organisations. Sometimes customer support is about helping the client with the care demand, while this perseverance often involves discussions between the insurer and the municipality, or between the social district team and education. This means that this customer support often has an extra aspect. Sometimes that can be very well combined with customer support. There are also cases where, for example, the municipality takes a heavy role. I refer to the Task Force Homeowners in the municipality of Rotterdam. There someone has been appointed by the municipality to pay specific attention to cases that are extremely complex and difficult, also on the part of the municipality. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Mrs van der Burg whether in many cases you would not be able to combine this with that independent customer support service. We are actually working with the VNG to bring this much more to the people's attention and answer yes. So I agree with Mrs van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you for that commitment. I would also like to know when feedback will take place. I have one more point about those groups involved in that perseverance. The alderman is the final responsibility, isn't he? If so, I say that before we know it, we are introducing a new person to whom we can shift things off with the effect that the parents don't know where they can go at all. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that I have serious doubts about this. I very much believe in that independent customer support to put the parents in position, even towards an alderman or an institution if necessary. Does the Secretary of State agree? Furthermore, I note that it is not very well arranged everywhere. Does the Secretary of State also want to involve parents' organisations in this whole discussion? They stand up for the interests of the parents. Clients' organisations are there, but they still have interests in other places. I believe that parents and youth organisations should be involved in this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mrs. Van der Burg is a bit of a smuggler. She is now asking several questions. But the Secretary of State will remember them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u107	Yeah, the alderman's the ultimate responsibility. This means that it is very essential that ultimately the alderman himself can also interfere with the breaking of business and the cutting of knots. That's what he or she is for. In Rotterdam, for example, you can see that responsibility is being taken at that point. I also very much agree that consultation with these parents is very important, particularly with regard to the issue of perseverance. Those parents say: yes, it is nice that someone else is going to decide what the perseverance power is, but I am very much involved myself. In fact, they usually say that they know a lot about it and that they want to make sure that that happens what is best for their child. They say that's not for anyone else to decide for them. That's exactly what the conversation I'm having with the parents is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u108	Let us first wait for the answer to all the questions. Otherwise, things are gonna get really mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u109	I believe I have answered both questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u110	I think the Secretary of State was very quick. I hear from the parent organisations that they are not being listened to very well. I'm just gonna give that to you. I hear the others are getting over it with the advice "Perseverance, perseverance." I have expressed my doubts about this. After all, we have one person who has the power of perseverance and the mayor is still there for the safety of a child. I believe that we should invest responsibilities in a clear way. That's what we did in the law. So we must appeal to these people instead of creating a new perseverance force. The parents' organizations also indicate that. I hope the Secretary of State listens to them very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u111	Oh, yeah. It is no coincidence that we have organised a meeting this week on, among other things, the relationship between education and care. Where sometimes complex combinations have to be made and individual arrangements have to be made between care for children in need of intensive care and education. We have said that not only people who make or support that arrangement should have a voice in it, but also the parents who should have that voice. The parents made that clear loud and clear at that meeting. So we listen very carefully to them. I'll come to the motion in part No. 522. We share the view that we want to ensure that there is timely aid and that there are no irresponsible waiting lists. That is also stated in this motion. Mrs Leijten raised the question of how to interpret that. I'm just looking forward to doing well in practice. We can say here that we prescribe the Treek standard, but the point is that the problem needs to be solved at local level. This says very, very, very much about my intention, not because I am against local regulation, but because I want there to be rules that work and that are worn by those who have to implement it. I want municipalities to take responsibility for this and for healthcare providers to have that responsibility. And I want them, if healthcare providers have waiting lists and they have to refer them, they have a role to play in that too. That's all I care about. So I'm not talking about rules, but I'm talking about rules that work. That is why I consider this motion to support the policy and take it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u112	Before I ask the Chamber whether there is any objection to this, I give Mrs Leijten the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u113	If the Secretary of State wishes to take over this motion, there is still the important question when he wants that Treek norm, made by the field, to be there. Is 1 January 2017 the deadline as far as he is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u114	As I indicated in the debate, I am in constant conversation with the club. In July I have further discussions with the municipalities. In the opinion that this should also play a role in the procurement policy for 2017. That means that 1 January is indeed a very good deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u115	So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u116	I will consult with the co-sponsors, and I will let them know this week whether we are happy with the adoption of the motion or whether we would prefer to put it to the vote, given its important nature. You asked if anyone had any objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u117	I haven't asked yet, but I'm gonna do that now. Does any of the Members object to taking over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u118	I had a visionary vision. I'm going to discuss with the petitioners whether I think that's the right way to proceed with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u119	But right now, you're objecting to taking over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u120	At the moment, I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u121	Then the motion will simply be put to the vote, but it can always be held before the vote, or withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u122	I'll wait and see. It is difficult for me to reconstruct the policy of taking over motions, because sometimes the Chamber says: take her over. And sometimes the room says, "Don't take her over." It is, of course, up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u123	The procedure is crystal clear. You take over the motion and then the Chamber says whether or not it agrees. Each individual member may disagree. That was Mrs Keijzer in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u124	Top summary, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u125	The procedure is clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u126	This brings us to the end of this debate. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers given. We will be voting on the motion before us next Tuesday, if it still exists.
