ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. People should be able to get proper and appropriate care when they need it. They must be able to assume that this care is always available in good time. With the reform in mental health care, we have focused on bringing people close to mental health care, i.e. close to the general practitioner. However, a study by the National Family Doctors Association and the National Platform GGz shows that access to basic ggz and specialised mental health care is not good in many cases. More and more patients with complex mental illness appear at the general practitioner's time. 52% of general practitioners do not have time to help these patients immediately. This is a worrying signal. There are waiting times with the practical supporters ggz. For the VVD it is unacceptable that people have to wait too long, precisely because they are also vulnerable people, people who sometimes even need forced care. That is why I am asking the Minister the following questions. Do all health insurance companies have sufficient maps of where waiting times apply to basic ggz and specialised mental health care? Are they willing to temporarily buy more care or refer people to other providers with no or shorter waiting periods, so that the important duty of care is met? Is the Dutch sufficiently aware that they can contact the Dutch Health Authority for complaints about waiting times? If not, how can something be done about this? What measures does the Minister take in cooperation with all interested parties to reduce waiting times in the very short term, so that people can get the care they need? Finally, can the Minister inform the Chamber in the short term about the progress of the improvement plans that can actually deal with waiting times?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The first question is whether insurers have a sufficient map of where the waiting times are. The NZa has informed us that they have given insurers until July to indicate their understanding of the waiting times and, where appropriate, what they are doing about them. First of all, I'm saying it's not a money issue. We see that everyone remains below the expenses that Chamber and Cabinet have allocated to the ggz. There is now 100 million involved in the practical support of the general practitioner. So it's not a money issue. But the question is whether there is sufficient insight. In July, insurers will have to report this. Do the insurers need to buy more care? Yes, because they have a duty of care. If that's what's going on, it has to be done. Let me put it this way. We have just received a report from the NZa in which she concludes that the total of login and treatment waiting times remains below the threshold standards. Trench standards are field standards that parties drew up about ten or twelve years ago. Those standards indicate what is acceptable for people to wait for treatment. The waiting periods were not only below, but also no longer than at the end of 2015. That's what the NZa reported to us. Nevertheless, I have asked the NZa whether these standards are still adequate. The NZa has promised to look into it. Do people know that they have to go to the NZa with complaints? I sent a letter to the Chamber today. This is not, by the way, the first letter on this subject. In that letter I mentioned that the hotline at the NZa is explicitly open especially for people in the mandatory ggz. These people need to be placed within two weeks. Complaints must be reported to the NZa. This applies to youth-ggz in municipalities and adults-ggz. Complaints about the mandatory ggz must be reported to the NZa, because it can actually take action and ensure that a patient is placed quickly. What measures do I take? We have not only had a four-hour AO on the GGZ on 26 May, but also 16 reports, letters and answers to parliamentary questions have been sent to the Chamber in eight weeks. In this I have mapped out what we are doing about actions, what we have asked the NZa to do and when reports are being made. I have said that before the summer we will have a discussion with the parties and that I will report to the Chamber on this too. I have also reported that the parties themselves have set in motion all kinds of actions. For the sake of clarity, I see that I have less than 40 seconds of speaking time to refer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	I thank the Minister for the answer. The questions of the Chamber indicate the involvement in what is going on. It is good that action is being taken. For the VVD it is important to look closely at those standards and stay in them. It's signals we've been getting. Another signal I would like to mention is a recent report from the Celsus Academy on the relationship between treatment time and treatment success in mental health care. It shows that a relatively small group uses a lot of care. Almost 40% of expenditure goes to 13% of patients. However, the potential for improvement of function in this group is no higher than for patients treated shorterly. Does the Minister agree with me that less long and targeted treatment can ensure that the clot in the waiting lists of specialized health care is addressed and people quickly receive the care they need? Is the Minister prepared to look with the relevant ggz parties at the duration and purpose of treatment throughout the chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	The mental health care providers are both the individual professionals and the institutions, and the patients themselves have drawn up an agenda on what should happen in the future in the ggz. A very important part of that agenda is looking at the way patients are treated. Are there sufficient starting and stopping criteria? We also evaluate in a conversation, together with the patient, who we involve: "How do you actually like it, this treatment; do you still benefit from it?'. These starting and stopping criteria become much more important in funding. That is what we are working together with the field to effectively reverse the funding, on the basis of these criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Around the funding it is clear: start and stop. I assume that is why we are looking at the treatment time and the effectiveness. In the Netherlands, €0.21 of each care euro goes to the treatment of psychological complaints. It should not then be the case that we are talking about a waiting list issue. It is important to work on this. It is very important that solutions are sought with the parties concerned, because ultimately people should be able to rely on the best care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Together with the field, with the healthcare sector itself, and with the patients, we started a change a few years ago: fewer people lock up in institutions and more people at home in their own environment provide the right care. It's quite a change of scenery, but it was necessary. In the Netherlands, after Russia, we had most people in ggz institutions. They weren't all there because they were mentally ill. I think that's very important. In the whole of care, also in mental health care, we organize care more around people at home. Very often these kinds of things are referred to as money problems, but it is not. There is a contract under the budget that has been released for that purpose. We'll see signs and glitches. On that basis, everyone has been put into action. The NZa is busy. I myself asked if we should not tighten up the standards, because the standards we apply are determined by the field itself. Actually, I think it should be faster. We must also show ambition. Ultimately, it's about giving the patient who needs care the right care: with the GP if possible, with the psychologist if necessary and in an institution if there is no other option. That's what we're working on. In the meantime, I have launched so many actions that we have to wait and see the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	The suggestion that patients are unnecessarily in settings that make others have to wait, I think is wrong. With this minister, we have been having a discussion on rising waiting times for more than two years. Last December we gave the Minister another report stating that 50% of the more than 1,000 interviewed employees in the ggz say that waiting times are increasing. The minister didn't do anything. You'll only see or experience one suicide in your family. Time and again you knock on the door at the ggz, but you are pointed at the door because you are on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	The question is: can the Minister mention one concrete measure that will speed up the delivery of care? I'm going to do one on her: shall we stop reducing the number of beds until this problem is resolved? The beds remain available until care is in order at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	The patient needs the care he needs. Sometimes this is the care in an institution and often the care can be organized at the patient's home. We see that there are a lot of changes and that it sometimes fails here and there. That is also why we have instructed the Healthcare Authority not only to look into everything well, but also to ask insurers who buy care, to ask for improvement plans. The insurers often didn't know where there were waiting times. They didn't know where to wait and where there was room. You say: call me one important measure. As a system controller, I asked for insight: where is there space, where is there no space; insurers, have you bought enough care? As of 1 July, insurers must provide us with insight into what has been purchased and whether it is sufficient to treat patients if necessary. This morning I sent a letter to the House of Representatives stating that it should become much more known that complaints concerning the mandatory ggz can also be reported to the NZa. If people are sitting with a child or a parent who, for example, is suicidal or has real problems, they should report it to the NZa, because then we will get a look at it and we can actually ensure that someone is placed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Minister cuts 30% on the ggz institutions. She says that people should be helped at home or at the GP. That is where the spoke runs; we can see that on all sides. Generalists are calling the bell, and the minister is now bringing in a hotline. Shouldn't the minister just stop doing that? Shouldn't she just reverse that austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	We have not cut back; we have said that growth must be moderated. The mental health budget is still growing, but we see that the budget is not being drawn up. The cabinet has made money available for last year and for the coming year on the basis of 1% growth, but that money is not being drawn up. So we can make more money available, but we need to find out where the shortcomings and bottlenecks occur in practice, so that we can solve them there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	The Trimbos Institute's report shows that the money available for outpatient care has not been used sufficiently and that the heavier ggz patients do not receive the care they need. Because there is not enough outpatient care, the pressure on the general practitioner is increased. In what way is the Minister going to bet the money that has been left? Does she also see opportunities to encourage the general practitioners to work more together? Would it be possible, for example, for a GP to refer patients to the POH-ggz of the other GP in the event of a major crowd?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	The POH is being monitored at the moment, because I want to know what is happening in those offices, what treatments are being given, when they are being referred to and how this referral goes. I think it's important to get an insight into that. That is the first point. Secondly, it is very important for insurers to buy those outpatient care services. If they do not do enough, then we need to know. They need to make improvements from the NZa and they need to report cases so that we can really understand them. For this, however, it is necessary for the institutions themselves to state that they have waiting times. Not all institutions did. That didn't happen enough. We need to get a much better view of that. Thirdly, the Trimbos Institute makes a tool for regional cooperation. Institutions in a region must be able to work well with each other. The waiting lists will also be included in the preparation of these handles. Questions such as "what happens in a region?" will be looked at. And "who can refer to whom if there is a shortage?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	The CDA has been concerned about waiting times in mental health care for almost two years. It would like to see a pass made on the site with the bed dismantling until there are sufficient facilities for mental health care in the district. We were talking about concrete measures. One is a bill to protect people from themselves and against society. That's the bill on mandatory ggz. The House of Representatives has been waiting for the letter of amendment for more than two years. The Minister had promised to come to the Chamber before the summer recess. When will it issue that letter of amendment? When's she gonna get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	He's coming for the summer recess. Mrs Bruins Slot knows very well why she has been waiting so long. This had to do with the need for three major laws to be aligned. It was not so much my choice to do so; it was a requirement of the First Chamber that these laws be aligned. For the summer recess, the letter of amendment will be sent to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	The minister says it's not a matter of more or less money. There's money, but it's not made up. She also says that improvement plans need to be drawn up and that this needs to be monitored, but we already have a study here that shows that the general practitioners simply can't handle it. What is the Minister going to do about it now? After all, we cannot wait endlessly for improvement plans and monitors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	I agree with Mrs Voortman, but I have an authority to ensure that there is sufficient care available to patients who need it; that is the NZa. It has produced a report, and I forwarded it to the Chamber in May, stating that the agreed standards are not exceeded. The waiting times are therefore below those standards. That's what the NZa said. I said: NZa, look deeper; have you looked deep enough, are there tricks in there and how about it? I've given a laundry list of assignments to see if we can't better know which setting has room and which setting is full. It would also be much better to work together at regional level, and then we could also ensure that patients might not be in one institution, but could be in another. It's being worked on very hard right now. This must therefore also produce results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you.
