ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u1	A bit domestically said: we are going to deal with an initiative law. It is always special when members of the Chamber make their own legislative proposals, because that is a pagan job. That is why we always welcome this with some warmth. I would therefore like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in the defence of the initiative legislative proposal in trade union K by Mr Haans, policy officer of the PvdA Group, Mr Langendoen, policy officer of the Christian Union Group, Mr Stuij of the GVO Service Centre and HVO since I am against abbreviations, I would like to add that this means Service Centre Religious Education and Humanistic Training Education, and Mr Bal of the Service Centre with that beautiful name. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. He was already there. He has to stay all night, because he will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. This is always the case in the case of own-initiative legislative proposals. Tonight the first term of office will be on the agenda. The response will be discussed at a later date in consultation with the initiators. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Bishop of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. As a colleague, as a SGP and as a historian, I would like to congratulate the initiators on what the chairman calls a "heather's job," but what I would prefer to call "monk's work'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u3	Can we find Sisyphoid work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u4	Yeah, that's an option, too. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats attaches great importance to the active legislative work of the Chamber. We do that by voting, of course, but one of the nicer forms is to come up with proposals ourselves. As a group, we always have a great deal of appreciation for colleagues who put their time and energy into it. I say this as a colleague, because I know how much work such an initiative proposes and how much effort people's representatives have to make in this respect. That deserves to be appreciated. As a SGP, I am pleased that the initiators fully recognise that the public school is not neutral and that as much as possible needs to be done justice to parents' beliefs. I am, of course, particularly pleased that this proposal is a generous recognition of the possibility of conveying the meaning of Christian faith. That will not surprise you, because that is one of the pillars of the SGP. We consider it a blessing if children can also hear the biblical message in public school. In this respect too, therefore, we welcome this proposal. Thirdly, as a historian, I appreciate this proposal. It is heartwarming to see that the initiators have dived deep into the filing cabinets. With this proposal, after 210 years, the responsibility of the public authorities will at last be given sufficient legal recognition. The Rules of Procedure of the School Act of 1806, the first national school law of our country, already required the government to take measures "to ensure that the school children of education in the First Class of the Church, to which they belong, are not deprived of anything'. Let this happen in Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure! At the time, the neutral school was not allowed to do more than teach all social and Christian virtues, as education and socialization were mentioned at that time. The teachings of the past, you might say, are religious education of today. The right to receive this education at the public school was created after the Constitution of 1848, but the right to funding did not exist. Now we lay down that financial responsibility of the government in this law. In fact, after 100 years, it is also a kind of second pace for religious education. These are wonderful moments and what a rich educational history we have! Mr President, you have already understood that the SGP is in favour of this proposal. We are now recording something in education laws that has been regulated in budgetary laws for some time. Of course there's nothing wrong with that and it's also good that this happened, but it's supposed to have its place in the education laws. The initiators rightly emphasise the importance of multiannual security. In the meantime, the proposal regulates that the amount of the subsidy can be determined in lower regulation. We have the idea that there's a little friction there. Hence the question to the initiators whether they can explain how this possibility relates to their intention. Can they indicate how the necessary price and wage indications are guaranteed? Another point is the provision of information on the possibility of education in public schools. That calls for some attention. The study shows that improvements are possible there and that parents are sometimes too dependent on the goodwill of the school. I have an amendment in preparation that regulates that all parents are provided with this information by default through the school guide. This is intended to support the intention of the initiators. I have yet to submit it, but I would ask the initiators to look favourably at that amendment from that point of view. That could bring about a slight improvement in the bill, I suspect. That is in line with the point I have just made. We all agree, I think, on how far we can differ on aspects of education policy, that public schools can be expected to pay a great deal of attention to different beliefs. In the context of citizenship formation and learning to treat each other respectfully, this is expected from all schools. You're right! But I would say that public education in particular could even serve as an example in this. If we agree on this, and if we find that it still seems to be a bit of an underprivileged child, my question is to the Secretary of State: what is the government going to do to get more active on this dossier, so that public education does indeed offer it actively? We believe that this can also mean strengthening public education as such. This does not affect the SGP's own position. However, you do want all children to receive good and broad education, so that they can take a place in society well equipped. I expect this bill to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. The CDA thanks the initiators of this law, as well as their support. This initiative legislative proposal establishes a legal basis for the General Measure of Governance to create conditions for the funding of philosophical education on a religious or humanistic basis. This is an important step forward in ensuring this education in public schools. It is precisely at this time that it is important to pay attention to multiform education with a role in religious and humanistic education. We are convinced that this will make an important contribution to promoting citizenship and greater respect and understanding between children over and over again. Moreover, this is important for all those parents with children in public schools who consider it important for their children to be able to follow this education if they so wish. Earlier, in 2009 I do not go back as far in time as Mr Bishop, 1848, I am keeping it somewhat more recent, thanks to an amendment from the CDA, there was a grant of EUR 10 million released to finance this education. At that time, the disappearance of municipal grants and the increased quality requirements in the Law on Occupations in Education, abbreviated the Law BIO, put great pressure on this form of education in public schools. The CDA welcomes the fact that this legislative proposal will finally enable us to take the step to ensure that it is financed legally. This provides more legal certainty and continuity than funding through grants. We therefore wholeheartedly support this initiative proposal. We agree with the initiators that there is a hidden demand among parents of children in public schools for this education because they are not familiar with the existing possibilities. We are curious how many of these ignorant parents would like to use this. The CDA therefore asks the Secretary of State if he would ask the PO Council to bring this way of education to the attention of parents and target groups. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that there is room for improvement in the communication on this subject? We also ask the Secretary of State if he wants to call on the public schools themselves to take stock of the extent of this desire on the part of parents; we are talking about parents who are not yet aware of this. To our question of parents' satisfaction with this method of education, the initiators replied that this has not yet been investigated, but that, according to them, stable demand indicates satisfaction. They also indicate that the GVO Service Centre and HVO Chair, you have just said what these abbreviations are for, in the context of this legislative proposal, you intend to integrate the satisfaction of the quality of the education offered into the integrated quality policy. I think that it is also very important with this bill that the quality of this education is well guaranteed. The CDA considers this to be of great importance and is curious about the outcome in due course. In the second letter of amendment, the CDA reads that one legal person is designated to facilitate religious or humanistic education, provided that it is taught by qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mrs Straus wants to interrupt on an earlier subject, so I will allow that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u7	I hear Mr Amhaouch say that the quality of education must be guaranteed. But how does he feel about the school where that education is given having no say in or knowledge of the content of that education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u8	Today, the Services Centre GVO and HVO ensure quality assurance. I think we should be confident that agreements can be made on the quality testing of the content of the package. After all, the people who work there are professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u9	But the school is also a professional, right? And the school is primarily responsible for the quality of his education, isn't it? How can the school take responsibility for the quality of education if it is offered by a third party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u10	I think that the school should be able to understand the quality requirements and be able to test them, but that the school should not be concerned with the content programme. I don't think you should leave that to the school. But I'm not sure what Mrs Straus means. Does it mean the content programme of education or does it mean the quality of teachers, who must meet the requirements that we normally impose in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u11	Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u12	We can leave the content programme to a professional organisation such as the Services Centre GVO and HVO. All faiths are represented in this. That Service Centre must ensure the quality assessment. It must ensure that children receive good education and that they also respect each other in that context. I think that's well secured at the Services Center. The CDA read in the second letter of amendment that one legal person is designated to facilitate religious and humanistic education, provided that it is taught by competent teachers. At present, that legal person is the GVO and HVO Services Centre, but if the Service Centre is unable to do so in the future for some reason, the Minister may designate another legal person. For us, this is a very important guarantee for the continuity of good, quality education, not only for our children, but also for their parents, who attach great importance to this and see it as an enrichment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors on this initiative law, and I would like to thank them for the hard work they have done to achieve this. When I was 4 years old, I went to a Catholic primary school in Zeeland-Flanders, the Saint Bavo school. Literally 10 meters away was the public school at the time. Now that this initiative law is before me, a number of questions naturally arise. What would it have been like if I had taken religious education in a public school? Would my parents still make the same choice in the present tense? And what would I do if I was in charge? Since the beginning of public education in our country, more than two centuries ago, the legislator has recognised the importance of philosophical education and religious education. That is why today's law states that public schools should provide an opportunity to receive religious and philosophical education for those children whose parents so wish. That education is not given by the school itself. The school is there for everyone, regardless of his or her identity. Schooled guest lecturers take care of the classes. Those teachers have been appointed by the organizations of different religions and from humanism, which is the only recognised non-religious belief in our country. Public education is accessible to all. Parents who, in principle, prefer public education but at the same time attach importance to religious education or to philosophical education should be given the opportunity to do so. It enables children to develop their own view of life and their identity, and to determine their own direction or vision. Since 2008, there has been a subsidy for religious and humanistic education in public schools, amounting to around EUR 10 million. This bill aims to establish funding in the Primary Education Act by means of a legally anchored funding rather than an annual grant that has been provided for many years. This is important for the pre-existence of religious and humanistic education. At present, in theory, this subsidy can be stopped every year, which means that these forms of education can no longer continue. In 2013, this threatened to happen. Many parents and schools were very concerned about this and started actions to maintain the subsidy for philosophical education. With the support of the Labour Party, this plan was then withdrawn. However, it is undesirable for this debate to be re-launched every year. Not capturing spending in order to be able to slide budgets leads to undesirable uncertainty, while we expect those involved to invest in quality and provide continuity. That is why humanist and religious education is not in good hands with an occasional subsidy scheme. That is why this initiative law is before us. It states that children at school can receive education of a religious or philosophical nature, so that they can learn about people who think and live differently than they do. Everywhere in the world, people feel threatened by their faith. At this very time, it is important that children learn about religion and philosophy, from the belief that there may be a difference and with mutual respect. During the discussion of the education budget last week, several parties, including the Labour Party, called for attention to be paid to good citizenship education. What contribution does philosophical and religious education, as proposed in the legislative proposal, make to binding citizenship? Would the authors like to answer this question again? I want children to always be able to learn about religion, humanism and other beliefs, so that they can understand and respect other people, wherever they are in the world. That is why I ask the proposers to explain again why they want to make it possible in public schools to support education from one particular religion or philosophical movement. That continuity is also important for those who are or have been trained as teachers in this philosophical education is beyond question. Today, 75,000 children are reached with this form of education, while a total of 25 trained teachers meet the legal requirements relating to competence and continuing training. The Labour Party hopes that teachers and young people with the continuity of this bill will dare to be trained for this profession. This is how we ensure quality education in schools. It teaches our children about culture and faith. Let us be honest: the other children, who do not take advantage of this offer, also benefit from it during class, because their teacher has even more attention for them. This initiative proposal has a very modest budget, but makes a great deal of difference for the future of humanist and religious education in particular and for public education in general. The legislative proposal deserves our support because guaranteeing the quality of the teachers in charge of this profession requires continuity, so that young people want to invest in it to be trained for this profession. Finally. After leaving Catholic elementary school, I no longer have any specific connection with religion. Yet at this school I have received values that have shaped me to who I am and which are part of where I come from. It is important that children of parents who consider this desirable should continue to have the chance of humanistic or religious education. Whether or not this form of education is available should never prevent parents from consciously opting for a public school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u14	You look around like you're done with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u15	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you very much. I give Jasper van Dijk of the SP, who, by the way, comes from a Defence meeting and so perhaps is even more combative than we are used to from him, the word for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u17	I couldn't say it better! But now to the main thing, education. Let me say first of all that the authors have made a very sympathetic proposal. I am a great supporter of philosophical education. As far as I am concerned, that should receive a lot of attention at any school. But Mrs Vermue also asked a number of good questions. Is this kind of education ideal? Because it's demand-driven. Mrs Vermue mentioned that herself. If the parents need it, it's offered. This can lead to a group of children leaving a class to receive specific religious education, such as Jewish or Islamic religious education. There is my concern; I thought I heard that concern in Mrs Vermue's question. So that's not the same thing. That is a small clique, as I mentioned in the written contribution, a group of children who go out of school and then receive separate education about that one religion. Is that ideal according to the Labour Party, or should all children be able to learn about all religions and beliefs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u18	I was at a school in Eelde last Monday. When I walk into the school there, I come across groups of students who follow different forms of education, work together on a project or make a choice to focus on a specific subject. I do not understand why Mr Van Dijk sees any objections in that regard. It fits precisely the current form of education, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u19	I find it a little too easy to put this together now with all kinds of other types of education projects. Of course it does. I get that. However, this is a special form of education. It is not for nothing that the authors are calling for particular attention to be paid to this issue. If the PvdA considers integration and learning together important, is this the ideal form? Mrs Vermue asked that question herself. If all these children opt for humanistic education, I love it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u20	I'll give you a term of your own. Can you make it an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u21	Does Mrs Vermue find it ideal to have a group of religious lessons about one religion? I ask her to respond specifically to that. Or does she say: in an ideal world would that look different to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u22	If Mr Van Dijk has listened carefully, he has already heard this in my speech. I know him as a great advocate of access to education. Religious education should never be an obstacle for parents to opt for a public school. When they choose to follow religious education based on their identity, it is important that we make it accessible through public school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u23	Very briefly, why not give this beautiful education to all the children? Why demand-driven? Why not all the kids?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u24	Public education already provides information on all flows of education. It is precisely in this particular form of religious and humanistic education that we are going to go deeper. That's a floor that parents choose. It's a choice we've been giving them for 200 years. It must never be a threshold to go to public school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Van Dijk still? Not for conclusions, because that's what your own deadline is for. Do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u26	To be honest, I think Mrs Vermue is going around my point. Of course I'm in favour of accessible education. Mrs Vermue knows that we are fighting together for an acceptance obligation. Hopefully we'll be back here next week with certain people. I won't mention any names. Does she understand my point? Does she understand my hesitation in this type of education? This means, for example, that Jewish or Islamic children are taken out of class to receive separate education in another local area, from the imam, the rabbi or the vicar. That's not integration, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u27	The form Mr Van Dijk refers to, in which pupils are taught in groups, is exactly what I think is appropriate at this time. When we want pupils to understand different cultures and religions, it is important to sometimes join their own frame of reference, so that they can also learn to understand the frame of reference and the identity of others. The fact that parents value going into the floor at that time is something that Mr Van Dijk and the SP and together with us have been supporting for a long time. So I do not see the indignation he is raising here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my appreciation to colleagues for this initiative. It is indeed one of the instruments the Chamber has. It is always nice to see people climbing into the pen on a subject that is so close to their hearts that they cannot wait for the government to take the initiative. They want to be ahead of it, as it were. I would like to express my sincere appreciation for this. Tonight we are discussing whether and if so, how the government should pay for philosophical and religious education in public schools. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is strongly linked to the freedom of education, which is so dear to us. People are free to choose the form of education of their preference. If there is no school that suits them or their children, they have the freedom to set up a new school. We're even gonna expand that. These are important freedoms in Dutch society and we must cherish them. As long as the school meets the quality requirements of good education, a school has the right to exist, whether it be public education, special education or even any other form of education. However, the way in which we implement the freedom of education in Article 23 needs to be renewed. Each society has a specific view of time: the past, the present and the future. This spirit of time determines behavior, which is reflected again by the way society prepares its young people for adulthood. As far as we are concerned, in today's spirit of time, it is not appropriate for separate philosophical and religious education in public schools to be paid by the State. It does not lead to greater freedom of choice. In a way, it even restricts that freedom, because it affects the character of public schools. The public school is there in our belief for people who want their child to go to a school free of one specific belief or belief in life. At that school, students are taught from as neutral a position as possible. From there, it also offers general religious education. Key objective 38 of primary education also states very clearly: the pupils learn the main issues about spiritual flows that play an important role in Dutch society and they learn to deal respectfully with differences in people's views. The VVD is therefore for general philosophical education in public schools, but not for separate lessons in a specific religious or philosophical movement. For those who wish to do so, there are the special schools. The liberal starting point of the public school is a simple school in a single society. As far as the VVD is concerned, public is also really public. That's what this bill is about. Moreover, the choice of funding for special education in public schools also raises the question of why an exception is made for this form of education. I might say it a little flat, but I'm doing it anyway: why don't we also pay for extra technical education or music lessons when parents ask for it? In other words, the mere funding of religious and philosophical education is a very arbitrary choice that we no longer make in today's spirit of time. Those who argue that this bill is the solution to the problem that there is not special education available for every child in the home environment also make an arbitrary choice. There is also not always an iPad school or a free school. We are not going to introduce this in public schools in one way or another. We can see that there are concerns about the possible reduction of education and the lack of meaning. Education should therefore, in our view, also pay attention to meaning and passion. However, you do not do this by taking pupils separately, but by making the dimension of personalisation part of a broad view of education, as stated by the Education Council. I quote the Education Council: by making students independent in their thinking and doing, regardless of existing practices and traditions and thus developing the ability to relate as an autonomous person to society. That's how we'd like to see it. I'm rounding up. It is of the utmost importance that children in public schools get to know a broad range of views in the most neutral way possible. Parents consciously opt for this neutrality in education for their children, because it in their eyes leads to greater solidarity and understanding. The opposite is the case when we take children out of class to be taught there in that one philosophy of life that the parents of that group of children prefer. Especially for parents who choose a specific direction, we have special schools. They were created specifically for that purpose. The freedom to choose your own school is important, the freedom of education. But it is equally important that public education remains genuinely public education and is not mixed with special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u29	A very consistent argument. I follow the reasoning. Mrs Straus says that we should not take care of this kind of thing for public schools, because then we might as well be able to finance technical education or musical education separately, and we do not. I follow that reasoning, but does she agree that we should not treat special schools differently from public schools and that we should make special schools generally accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u30	I recognise that principle, and I have spoken about it many times in the past. It is important that schools can, of course, have a certain profile and that within this profiling they can offer specific accents in their education programme. It is also important that they ask parents of children who wish to attend that school if they agree to that education programme. That is something that should apply to all schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u31	So if the parents and the students respect the basis of a school, Mrs Straus thinks that student should have access to that school?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u32	If this school clearly indicates what the educational programme is and what requirements are imposed on the pupils and the parents indicate that they want to fully comply with it, that is what I am concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u33	I do not think we are having the debate tonight on the obligation to accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u34	I was hoping the chairman wouldn't notice, but he caught me red-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u35	So a little inside the subject, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u36	One final question. Mrs Straus spoke of'schedule', but it listens very closely here. Does Mrs Straus now say that the student must respect the basis or should the student endorse the basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u37	I think this is about the parents and not about the student, initially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u38	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u39	It depends entirely on how the school formulated it. Well, we'll have to check it out. I can't do that right now on a late afternoon... one night making a statement about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u40	The second part of the evening, to be exact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr Van Dijk compliments Mrs Straus on the consistent implementation of her opinion, but I believe that at the beginning of 2013 the Voordewind motion was tabled far before I entered the Chamber, which dealt with the cuts made by this Secretary of State and the Minister. I believe that this motion has been adopted by almost all parties. Does Mrs Straus recognise this inconsistency?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u42	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u43	What changed her mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u44	A very basic decision is being presented here, namely to convert the grant into legal funding and thus to make it a structural anchor. As a result, we are now looking at this differently than at the time when it was part of a larger package of measures. In the larger package of measures of 200 million in total, there were many choices. With one choice, you were more in agreement with the other, but we judged those choices as a package. Then we said we'd leave it in that package. Now we indicate that we do not want to anchor that exactly in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr Bishop mentioned 1848 and we were just talking about 2013. In 2013, we had an article 50, on which this law is also based. This law still exists. Whether it's about subsidies or constitutional anchoring, if you want to guarantee quality, you should also legally anchor this. You can't rely on four-year periodic grants. I believe that quality education is of benefit to everyone, whether it be humanistic or other education of faith. The VVD can't stand good quality, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u46	The VVD has nothing against that at all. Again, I have tried to argue that in our opinion it should be part of the regular education programme and that it should have a place in it. Then it has quality and then it is part of the entire society of the school and it is no longer a separate group of students in a separate class of one particular belief, with the emphasis on "one particular belief."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mrs Straus is talking about a package of measures. The motion in part No. 5 (33650) "calls on the government to strive for the availability in the budget of funds for humanistic education (HVO) and religious education (GVO) in primary public education." In favour: the VVD and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u48	Yeah, but it was part of a total package of 200 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u49	So you're questioning the direction you voted for, now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u50	No, I'm not. Then it was part of agreements in a broader package. Now I am asked to what extent we approach this in principle. We approached it pragmatically at the time. Now I am asked explicitly to approach it in principle. I did that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u51	I would like to ask a clarification question about the education we are talking about, which is 40 hours a year. Is it intended to be organised within or outside the regular time of education? Add to that: how is the funding foreseen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr Bishop is probably referring to an amendment that I have tabled. In fact, I wanted to take a first step in getting this particular focus on philosophical education out of the education programme. That is why my proposal is to organise it outside of school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u53	If that is true, then it is reasonable that there should be a budget for that too? If it is not allowed within the regular school time, it falls outside the lumpsum cost. Surely it is reasonable for extra money to be made available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u54	It is now also the case that children who do not participate in HVO/GVO will in the meantime receive a different programme. So I do not think that there should be any immediate problem of funding, because I am not going to continue working on the subsidy that is currently available. I just think it should be organized outside of school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u55	If the VVD's thinking line is followed that education is being followed outside school time, then it is only children who attend this education. They are therefore not obliged to take alternative lessons. This is without prejudice to the fact that the costs involved must be anchored somewhere. Now that's in budget laws. Isn't it reasonable for it to be laid down in educational laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u56	The subsidy as it stands remains. What we want to point out is that we no longer want it to be part of the education programme and children are given these lessons separately, with regular education going on as usual. It has to take place after school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mrs Straus says it must take place after school. Does she therefore believe that religious education should take place in particular after school?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u58	As far as the core target is 38 of primary education, it is not. I don't agree with this. HVO/GVO goes beyond core target 38 of primary education. That is also what I think we differ on, Mrs Vermue. Core target 38 is about offering all the beliefs side by side to all the children. What we do not want is for a small group of pupils to be set aside for this education, with a representative of one religious movement eventually giving separate lessons to the children. We are not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mrs Vermue, at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mrs Straus was just complimented on her very consistent speech, but I cannot see any consistency in this reaction. I'd like to get an additional response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u61	I don't know about any inconsistencies in my story. I think I've been clear every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate the initiators. I find only the composition that I now see in box K somewhat disturbing: two Christian parties and the socialists, who are seeking a right of admission. I am somewhat concerned about that. We do not understand the intention of this proposal of law. We also sincerely do not understand why the CDA and the Christian Union have committed themselves to this. Let me explain to you why. In the Netherlands we have the dual education system. It divides education into public and special. In practice, there are roughly three groups of primary schools: conventional special schools, general special schools, often based on educational philosophy, and public schools. There are about as many Roman Catholic schools as Protestant Christian schools, around 30%, and almost a third, 32%, is public; this out of a total of about 7,000 primary schools. In the meantime, the Chamber knows that the PVV is strongly in favour of special education, and thus of Article 23. When it comes to participatory citizenship, special education is the most appealing example. If active groups of parents consider education to be so important that they want to organise education themselves, so that they can teach their children from their own tradition or from a particular educational philosophy that appeals to them, you must cherish it. The government facilitates and the parents execute it. Where it goes wrong, the government has a task to provide for public education and then the public administration, public education, joins in. Public education is already receiving a subsidy from the government to offer philosophy or religious education. It's been provided for since 1857, I understand. We don't want to interfere with that at the moment. However, it would not be wise to strengthen it in the way proposed today. As far as we're concerned, that's gonna be too much. There is room for reflection in public education. That can be given by your own teachers. After all, we do indeed have this core objective of 'world orientation', which is also given at the teaching academy. This makes every primary school teacher competent and competent to give that course. The general lessons about the great religions and about humanism are indeed an enrichment for the curriculum. But religious lessons given by a reverend, a pastor, a rabbi or an imam, that's quite different. This is not just about general knowledge anymore. It is inevitable that I am of Reformed House that this is accompanied by missionary drive and perhaps even a bit of converting drive to a greater or lesser extent, however it is emphasised on page 5 of the explanatory statement that pluralism will be respected. Get to know them, I'll tell Mrs. Ypma. We don't think that fits in with a public school. Also remember that many parents not only consciously opt for a special school, for example on a Protestant-Christian basis, but also that there are parents who very consciously choose not to bring their children, or as little as possible, into contact with religion. This conscious choice is not respected if, through subsidies, and above all through this legislation, we give a stronger position to religion in public education. That is what this bill wants. The aim of this initiative proposal is to create a basis for setting rules for the financing of philosophical education or religious education in public schools in the General Measure of Governance. As a result, this funding is converted into that legal framework through grants. I have a question for the initiators and a concern I want to share with them. What kind of problem is it going to solve here? I see no problem, except that the religious teachers who are now doing their work on the basis of a subsidy scheme would like to have a firmer legal position. I don't blame them, but I don't see the need for work, for all intents and purposes, which we feel doesn't need a stronger position than it already is. Leave it as it is for now! If anything should change in the future, I would look for a modernisation that I have already proposed: not clergymen in the school, but let our own teachers give that wonderful profession world orientation in general. There is an enormous amount of beautiful material available, digitally and on paper, to give that box hands and feet. That is how we would like to see it in the future. My concern is something else. You all know that in recent months the left-wing parties have been preparing their political attack on freedom of education, on Article 23. When dealing with the education budget, I was rather shocked by the improvement of the left-wing parties, especially with the SP but also with D66. This always makes special education suspicious. It would encourage segregation rather than integrate; it would systematically refuse pupils at the gate. The image is created as if a distinction is made in an institutionalised way. At the moment there are left-wing motions and amendments in the basic paint to enforce a right of admission to combat this so-called miscarriage. I am concerned that the left-wing parties will use this law, if it is passed, as a wedge to eventually eliminate special education. The adage will read as follows: "There is still public education that is accessible to everyone and also the pupils of special homes are welcome there; they are beautifully mixed in those schools; there is no segregation anymore; religious lessons are voluntary; what more do you want? Moreover, they are served there by a vicar, chaplain, imam or rabbi; why then maintain that segregatory special education?" There's a danger, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes I think I've been in the Chamber since 2010 when I might have become a little too cynical and see too many dangers, but when it comes to the left-wing parties, I can hardly shake that off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u63	You speak to me, but I am not going to answer that. Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u64	You don't have to, Mr. Chairman. My idea would be to leave public education for what it is, with a wonderful curriculum world orientation, and leave religion education to the special schools. I would like to receive a response from my colleagues in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'm trying to discover the PVV line when it comes to special education. It is completely unclear. We know that you want to close Islamic schools and thus discriminate severely. That also closes you to some of the special education, but that aside. In general, you say two things. On the one hand, the left would make an attack on the special education you cherished. On the other hand, you say: don't make that special education so big, because these schools are already doing everything to allow students from a different background. What is it? Is it fantastic, beautiful special education or has it been watered down for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u66	It will undoubtedly be watered down from the perspective of Mr Van Dijk of the Socialist Party, but that is not how I see it. I know so many special schools, Catholic, Protestant-Christian, Orthodox schools. Certainly the Orthodox schools have not been watered down, but that also applies to the Catholic identity and the Protestant Christian identity, which today is shaped from the PKN. Everyone is indeed welcome there, and yet from a certain point of view, a certain emotion is taught there. The ideals that apply there are also reflected in the educational climate that prevails there. This is often different from public education. These schools, for example, also perform very well on social education and that sort of thing. That is precisely because of the character of these Protestant Christian and Catholic schools. So I don't see a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u67	It is getting even more confusing, because just now Mr Beertema was talking about the missionary urge that you might experience in that religious education at that public school. Of course, that applies entirely to those special schools that you are describing now and which you now love. And if you like them so much, what's wrong with them...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u68	I can't find anything. Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u69	That's right, Mr. Chairman. As Mr. Beertema of the PVV, who has been in front of the class for 33 years...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u70	34.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u71	34 years; we have to stay sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u72	That was almost a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u73	If he likes that special education so much and when he sees how many different students come to it, what is wrong with just a right of admission for all children? Why the door policy for the special schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr Van Dijk's assumptions are not entirely correct. In particular, all these subjects are given directly into the curriculum, which Mrs Straus referred to as the school's responsibility. As it is proposed here, the children in public education are picked from the classroom. At that time, there is indeed no longer any control over what is happening there. That is a fundamental difference. That is a real difference. I do not see that problem in special education. If I had kids, I would have sent them there, too. I grew up there myself, so to speak, and I never regretted it. I've gotten a huge piece of Bible knowledge, including the religious hours. I had to memorize many psalms there. They kind of slipped my mind. But the basis and insight into our Jewish-Christian tradition that you get there, I wouldn't have wanted to miss. I will give that to Mr Van Dijk. To take children out of the classroom in public education, to take them in a separate setting upon request...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u75	We're repeating ourselves a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u76	That's another story, isn't it? I would like to say a few words about Islamic education, because that is how Mr Van Dijk began his introduction. Indeed, we do not want Article 23 and the freedom of education to be abused by an ideology which is on all sides the enemy of our social relations, of our Constitution and even of our public order. Surely it can't be that an ideology that doesn't equate a woman to a man, gay not to a heterosexual and apostate to a believer, under the beautiful flag of Article 23, gets a free job to get that toxic work in those children's heads? I really don't think that's possible. That's our position. This applies to Islamic education. I see everyone walking back to the interrupting microphone. I recommend that you go into the backgrounds of Islam as we have done. Then you'll only be able to draw one conclusion. You will also say: no, this fascist ideology does not fall under the flag of Article 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr Van Dijk, at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u78	Because of this selective indignation, Mr Beertema's whole speech is completely falling through the ice, because at an orthodox Jewish school and at an orthodox-Christian school, that unequal male-female relationship is just as good. Mr Beertema should stop this discrimination for once. But he did not go into my very modest question at all: what is wrong with an admission policy for all schools? That is not state education, no, but only a very sympathetic proposal: an admission policy for all schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u79	To return to that first part of Mr Van Dijk...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u80	Can you do that briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u81	Well, I don't know if that's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u82	But I do, because I'm looking at the clock. So, can it be short?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u83	You're welcome to look at the clock, Mr. Chairman. I will try to do it briefly and succinctly. Mr Van Dijk once again closes his eyes to the harsh, bitter reality in many large cities and in many old neighbourhoods throughout Europe, where Islamic young people commit terrorist attacks. They are not committed by orthodox Jews. The gays aren't beaten up by brawling squads of orthodox-reformed boys. Mr Van Dijk obviously does not allow me to say that, because he probably does not rule out that he can. But the terror that we know and that is disrupting our society is Islamic. I can't help it. Reformed people do not fly through buildings, Mr Van Dijk. Just remember that. Look at reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u84	And the second part of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr Van Dijk always makes a very large number of the access that would be refused, but I hardly know any cases. He doesn't even know how to do that. That will happen once or twice. However, I do not intend to take away that freedom from schools. Schools attached to their identity have a certain degree of freedom in this respect and they want to retain it. I'm fine with that. I don't see any abuses. Let those schools keep that freedom. A right of access would be very bad for the foundation of Article 23. There's no way I'm gonna go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mr Beertema is cynical not only to the left but also cynical and selective towards a number of beliefs. But what he said, I leave it to him. I have the following question to ask Mr Beertema. Is the Service Centre GVO and HVO not a good example? That's where seven believers come together. That center takes care of the quality. It is also covered by the Law BIO (Law on Occupations in Education). Teachers appointed in schools by the Services Centre GVO and HVO are also covered by the education inspection. Isn't that the ultimate example of good quality education? Then it doesn't matter if you're Christian, Islamic, Protestant, humanistic or Hindu. Shouldn't Mr Beertema plead for that if he's so cynical about certain beliefs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u87	On the second part of the question, I say no. I think that very nice things are happening, but that doesn't change our position that we don't think it belongs in public education, which, as far as we are concerned, should remain public. Just stick to the general world orientation. It's beautiful. And let all those other things that are further developed in that institute find their way to special education. Then I think it's something else entirely. So, no, we don't want to get into this. By the way, I don't understand your accusation of cynicism. What is cynical if I want to protect society from disruption caused by an ideology on the basis of which people do not necessarily want to adapt and on the basis of which people choose self-egregation and a life that turns away from the West? That's cynical. Then don't tell me I'm cynical. You're turning around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u88	I still have a question, a question that brings us closer to the core, to where Mr Beertema wants to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u89	Maybe you can narrow it down a little bit to what it's really about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u90	I will. If Mr Beertema were to say that things are happening that we should not close our eyes to, and if he was talking about individuals, then perhaps I would agree with him in a number of cases. But he's stigmatizing and generalizing here again. I've had Catholic education all my life. Also in Catholic education there was a class for Islamic education. There are a lot of those in the country who have done so, and those are not the people you are pointing to now, Mr Beertema. If you can point out those who do wrong, I'll go with you, and I'll agree with you. However, if you stigmatize this, I regret that. As a former teacher in Rotterdam-Zuid you should know better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u91	Luckily, not all those people do wrong. That's a good thing! I don't have to think about it. That would be something! But in the book underlying that ideology, every second or third page contains calls for violence, for the killing of non-believers and Jews. This is full of discrimination against women and so on. That's the manual of ideology I'm talking about. Fortunately, most people are wise enough not to stick to it, but there are more and more people who decide to stick to it. That's my concern. That is not cynical; that is caring for our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the proposers on this well prepared bill and on the careful response. The authors are concerned with the quality and continuity of religious and humanistic education. This can be given in public school according to the law. If there is such a legal possibility, education must be of good quality. Then there will also have to be sufficient funding. The teachers of this philosophical and humanistic education are doing a good job and deserve job security. Their salary should keep pace with that of other teachers, according to the proposers. Two points are important for the SP. The SP has long been in favour of philosophy at school. To deal with questions of meaning, to develop positions, to respect those who think differently: those things are important in these times of transmission without receiving, ego-branding, selfies making and the fat me. Humanist education is very much in line with that principle of the SP. The course has been developed and many teachers have been trained. Do the proposers agree with the SP that such a subject should be called philosophy, called education education in the long term, should be part of the core objectives? And if the answer is yes, is the proposed law a step towards achieving that or a stand-in-the-way? It may still occur in the practice of the classroom that one group of pupils receive philosophical education, because their parents want to. Students are offered other than other teaching materials. That's not together. It's separate. If one group of pupils is taken separately, this does not necessarily lead to mutual understanding. After all, you learn more about the other with the other, despite the enormous effort of the many good and driven teachers. I therefore ask the authors: how often does this situation occur, in which education is the most important and how do you judge it? My party wants to take a step forward in 2016, almost a century after the financial equivalence of public education and special education. Why should we be satisfied that a pastor or imam only teaches one group of students? You want all the students to get to know and learn that in this country, there are rabid infidels living next to pious churchgoers? Why don't we take it one step further? Why do we not demand that all children should come into contact with this diversity? Then we'll get the pastor and the humanist in the classroom, but for all the kids. I would like to receive a response from the proposers. The Christian parties often refer to universally accessible education as "state education"; it came by last week. That is a strange and consciously negative chosen frame, especially when you see that they demand from that same State to enable religious education in public school. These parties suddenly do not see this as state interference, arguing that the school does not give the lessons. The State finances and provides clear quality requirements. So far-reaching interference, and according to these Christian parties, that is suddenly good. Isn't that a little double-headed? I have one more question. We are talking here about an exclusive service, provision, public education, but is Mrs Ypma also willing to turn things around? I mean, all the proposers, but I was just looking at Mrs. Ypma right now. Are they prepared to say that if we do so, we should also provide humanist education at the special school? If parents let their child go to a Protestant Christian school, for example, because there is little choice in the environment, do they have to pay for humanistic education themselves if they want to do so for their child? Suppose you're an atheist, you let your child go to a Protestant Christian school and you want your child to receive humanistic education. There's no provision for that. It is for the other thing, and that is what we are talking about today. So you can pay for it yourself. Aren't we gonna shut these parents off from that possibility? We thus reduce the risk of pluralism, which is so central to this law. I'd like a reaction to that. Wouldn't that be consistent? Finally, what is the position of the cabinet? In 2013, the GVO and HVO did not want to finance anymore. I quote: parents who want their child to receive education on a philosophical basis can have access to special education. That's what the Cabinet wrote in a letter to the Chamber. What's the situation now? Does the Cabinet now support this bill? My party's position will depend on this interesting debate. I wish the authors every success in replying to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u93	I warmly thank Mr Van Dijk for the clear way in which he outlined his strategy to disrupt the freedom of education as we now know it, which is socially anchored. He does not want a scheme such as that proposed here for public education, but rather a right of admission for all pupils, whose parents subscribe to the basis of the school, to the special school. If then those parents would like their child to be offered humanistic education, that school should be obliged to offer it. That is exactly the end of the freedom of education enshrined in Article 23 of the Constitution, isn't it? I am sincerely grateful to Mr Van Dijk for expressing this so openly, clearly and clearly, but I would ask him to acknowledge this and to face it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u94	A compliment to Mr Bishop for the creative interpretation of my point of view. Furthermore, I am surprised at the support of the SGP for this provision. If the SGP had 76 seats and was in power, all public schools would disappear, all special schools would become mandatory for all children and the state religion would become the state religion of the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr President, I make this a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u96	You'll have the floor in a minute. Will you finish your sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u97	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u98	You were done with what you wanted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr Bishop is making a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u101	I do not think that the debate should take place in this way. This is a suspicion that isn't based on anything. The SGP embraces the democratic rule of law. All kinds of fictional images such as "if the SGP had 76 seats" are not on the table. Perhaps during the next elections we can take a step in that direction, but the SGP still embraces the democratic rule of law. Mr Van Dijk knows this and in this way I regret to say that the debate is fruitless and I do not go any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u102	You're free to do this. This is a sharp reaction, but it's not a personal fact you make. I note that, because we are dealing here far too easily with this important article of our Rules of Procedure, in my opinion. You have responded factually and firmly, that is your right, but this was not a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u103	When the cabinet threatened to cancel support for the GVO and HVO Services Centre in 2013, it was prevented by a motion and the GVO and HVO Services Centre were preserved. If I recall correctly, that motion was also supported by the Socialist Party. Why is Mr Van Dijk suddenly afraid of cold water? What's gotten into him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u104	I think that the SGP and the Christian Union interpret my input very negatively. If they have listened carefully, they have heard that I have given many compliments to the authors. I appreciate the teachers who teach this class. I'm a big supporter of philosophy in schools. Language and math are very important, but certainly not the only one. There must therefore be consideration in education of philosophy and philosophy, of meaning. That's extremely interesting. However, I have reservations about this particular form of education. I would ask: why isn't the vicar invited to all the children? Perhaps Mr Bruins will find that interesting. I have said, for example, that if we were consistent, we should also offer humanist education in special schools. There isn't now. I'll put that to the proposers. How do they look at that? However, I do not yet have a final assessment of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u105	I find it difficult to find out exactly where the doubt lies with Mr Van Dijk. In 2013 there was such a generous yes and now he gives such a difficult fundamentally balanced answer. Can't Mr Van Dijk just tell us what he actually thinks about this? This sounds so complicated. I'm not used to him. It's usually: huppetee, this is what we find.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u106	No, we are certainly not going to do that with this proposal. This is an extremely sophisticated proposal. That needs careful and nuanced thought. It would be careless to shout at this point: we are in favour of or against. We have not even heard the proposers. I want to have that debate, Mr Bruins. It's your business, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u107	Well, that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u108	Afterwards, I will make a thorough assessment with my group. Mr. President, I was ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u109	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u110	Amen!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the initiative they have taken and for the work they have done. It is important that children can also receive religious and humanistic education (GVO and HVO) in public education if they so wish. About 75,000 students are grateful to use the education given by 600 professors. So this really provides for a clear need. At the same time, there is now annual uncertainty as to whether the subsidy will continue. This is uncertainty for parents, teachers and public primary schools. As Mr Amhaouch mentioned in his contribution, a grant of EUR 10 million was launched for GVO and HVO from the financial year 2009 through an amendment by CDA, PvdA and ChristenUnion. It is not entirely coincidental that those are the parties that are now in box K. It is good that this legislative proposal establishes a legal basis for philosophical education and religious education in public schools. This also prevents the Court from having to intervene occasionally in order to keep up the funding. In 2013, for example, a motion from the Christian Union, CDA, SGP and D66 ensured the maintenance of the grant. I just had it in an interruption about that. That motion was also supported by the Socialist Party at the time. It is good to see that the initiative law is widely supported by the educational field. This afternoon I was at a small symposium called Kerels for the class, in Amersfoort. Even there, I was addressed by a number of masters who told me that they think it is important that this floor be offered, including for parents' pupils who basically opt for public education. A joint letter from governing organisations, teachers' associations, parent organisations of all kinds of signature calls for this bill to be adopted. I think that's a nice and clear signal. I do have a few more questions for the initiators. Firstly, it is a good thing that the legal status of teachers in GVO and HVO is now similar to that of other teachers. They must meet the same competence requirements. In addition, there is scope for continuing training in line with regular teachers. How's this gonna happen? Does this take place through the Services Centre GVO and HVO? Will these teachers therefore meet the same working conditions as their colleagues, including any wage adjustments? Secondly, am I wondering whether it is possible to impose robust requirements and conditions of funding on the basis of this bill? Is that desirable for GVO and HVO? How far can these demands go, according to the initiators, as they are about philosophical education? For example, is it only a question of competence requirements for teachers, or is it also a question of professional content? That is an important question for the Christian Union. The legislative proposal provides for the possibility of setting rules and conditions for funding through a General Measure of Management. For this purpose, the initiators want to be mainly in line with the conditions imposed on the grant in recent years. This list also mentions a possible subsidy ceiling. Isn't that a risk that the supply of GVO and HVO cannot meet demand and that this also doesn't satisfy parents' legal right to receive GVO or HVO for their child? The law chooses to reduce the current 120 hours per year to 40 hours per year. Can the proposers explain this further? They point out that de facto GVO and HVO are already given one hour a week and that the actual situation does not change anything. Is this the case everywhere in the Netherlands, or is this an average number of hours? Do the proposers think that this bill will increase the demand for GVO and HVO in number of pupils and hours? Finally. According to the Christian Union, this law should never affect the supply of special education or be considered an alternative to special schools, even in shrinking regions. I welcome the confirmation in the note following the report that the legislative proposal does not change the relationship between public and special education. This would also not fit in with the legal history, since both before and after the financial equivalence of public and special education in 1917 the right to religious education was maintained in the law. According to the Christian Union, the bill regulates and guarantees in a responsible manner a good tradition, which has been experienced in our country for more than two centuries as very valuable by parents and pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u112	These seem to me to be very formal closing words of the Court's contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-09-tweedekamer-9.u113	I would like to thank the initiators, their staff, the Secretary of State and the members of the Commission for their contribution in that order.
