ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone. The Secretary of Defense is absent with permission. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment will leave the meeting at the end of the afternoon. The Prime Minister has the floor for his first-term reply. I would also ask him to explain how his speech was built for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Good morning, thank you. It is special: these are the last General Reviews of this cabinet, which was often mentioned yesterday. It's my ambition to be the leader of my party again and continue in this fine office. But that's what the voter will decide, of course. We all don't know how that ends; that goes not only for me, but for many here who know they're going to be list-takers or want to be party to it. For this reason alone, these are special General Reviews, but also of course because of the content and themes that were at issue. I would like to make a few brief introductory remarks. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would prefer to make those introductory remarks without interruptions, but of course that is what the Chamber is about. After that, I'd like to work in cubes again. There has been a misunderstanding: as if the Chamber had hardly asked questions. That's not true. Many speakers are able to ask questions hidden in their speeches. Then they'll be terribly irritated if I haven't discovered them. We went through the speeches with the dust comb, we took the questions out. Yes, Mr Wilders, we have done so with you and with Mr Pechtold and others; even with Mr Klaver they were found. I'm really gonna try to answer those questions as best I can. I'll do that on the basis of a few cubes. It is also about the Millions Note today, so I think it would be good to start with the financial and economic dossier after the introductory remarks. I shall then turn to the question of how that translates, including European and international. Then, in the case of migration, then on the main subject of security and the rule of law, yesterday, we were very pregnant in the debate, of course, followed by care, education, energy, environment and infrastructure, and finally the counter-budgets. In total, it consists of eight different cubes. I imagine, each time, to clearly indicate and appoint the transition from one block to another. Having said that, I would like to make a few introductory remarks. Those who have followed the news over the past few weeks cannot be surprised at the issues raised here yesterday: care, pensions, integration, but also 'let the Netherlands stay Netherlands'. These are the major issues that also live outside this room, issues that concern people and concern them. Listening to the first term of the Chamber, I realized that an important keyword in these General Political Reviews is "certainty," or at least the desire to do so, both in material and intangible terms. For the first, material certainty, the reform agenda which this cabinet started four years ago is clearly starting to bear fruit. Indeed, our country is better off than it was a few years ago. The future of a number of important services, such as care, the AOW and our social safety net, has been secured for generations. Yeah, we did that together, cabinet and opposition. We have done this together with civil society organisations, but especially with 17 million Dutch people, who have all contributed to this very difficult time. We've made this journey through the desert together. We must not put that certainty at risk again with ill-thought-out plans, with ill-thought-out measures. We must have that certainty. Many macroeconomic developments around us are positive. But for people, what micro becomes visible to them in life counts, what they notice micro of it. Fortunately, a lot of people notice that things are getting better. Fewer houses are underwater, at least the mortgages. 120,000 people have found another job in the last year. Entrepreneurs are investing again and consumers dare to spend again. That counts. What matters now is that everyone will feel that recovery, that everyone will notice that it is getting better. We've worked together, with 17 million people, to get these good grades. Now we have to work together, together with 17 million people, to ensure that this becomes tangible in the lives of all Dutch people. Only then can we be satisfied, only I can be satisfied. Of course, there will always be wishes. A country is never finished in material terms. But important in this budget is that almost all groups in our country benefit from it and, for example, see it in their purchasing power. But quite rightly, many of the speakers yesterday drew attention to the intangible concerns that are widespread, to the question of how we can secure our security, our freedom and also our democratic values for the future. I myself as Prime Minister, we as Cabinet, the whole politics, we have a standard task here. It starts with saying out loud what goes wrong, setting boundaries and enforcing where laws are broken. Indeed, as many have said, it is not a cafeteria model. Whoever lives here cannot shop in constitutional achievements. Whoever lives here respects the freedom, the freedom of other people. That certainty must be felt by everyone. This is also the subject of these General Reviews. Against the background of these introductory words, I would like to begin with a number of comments that have been made and the many questions that have been asked about financial and economic policy. I start with purchasing power, but it is only after I have said that it is essential in a country like the Netherlands that people who have talent, who want to take opportunities, also get the chance to exploit that talent and get to work. Work, I realize, the cabinet realizes that, and this whole Chamber, it's more than just an income. Work is also the opportunity to show what you are good at, to engage in social contacts, to develop yourself, to engage in social connections. Work is vital. All the work of this cabinet, of Louis Asscher, of me, of this whole team is aimed at ensuring that there is a further recovery in employment. Everything we do, whether it is social security or income policy, is primarily aimed at achieving that main priority, so that as many people as possible who want to get to work can get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Have you finished your general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yes. I now come to financial and economic policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Prime Minister is right to say that these are special general considerations. We look back at the four years of this cabinet. There are good economic figures to be discussed and we are indeed coming out of the valley. At the same time, however, many group chairmen have put their finger on the gaps that are emerging and on the concerns that are growing. They cannot be solved with good economic figures or with a plus in purchasing power. It's about trust, it's about reaching out. That's what the cabinet once started out with, sticking out the hand. It is about the contradiction between young and old and between high- and low-skilled. If the Prime Minister looks back in this way and looks at the impact of the policy, looks at how it stands now, looks at figures that indicate distrust, what is his reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	Then I say that important steps have been taken on parts, but that we are absolutely not there yet. Much has been done, but there is still a lot to do. I agree with Mr Segers. We will discuss this in detail today. With regard to pensions, it is important for young and old people to be able to reach out to each other with a solidarity pension system, for older people to know that if they have worked hard for a lifetime, they can count on a good pension and that young people know that, if they work hard and pay contributions throughout their lives, they also have the prospect of a good pension. Look at how, with the help of the Christian Union, we have reached out to each other in this Chamber over the past three or four years to take difficult measures in perhaps the worst economic crisis after the Second World War. Mr Segers and his predecessor supported cabinet policy at important and crucial moments so that we could take these difficult measures. Many other parties have also done so, such as civil society organisations. At the same time, there are great concerns. People are wondering: do I notice the economic recovery? How are things in my neighborhood? Can I go across the street safely? What happens to our standards and values? Aren't we going to make concessions to our way of life because large groups come from outside? Those are major concerns that we must address as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	I realize very well that you can't change a culture at the push of a button. But it must give us reason to believe that there is massive distrust of the government, of politics in general, among the less educated. This week we received a cry from the Salvation Army about confused people, people in the ggz, who can't go anywhere. There are people on the side who cannot be found in the cheerful stories of the cabinet, who cannot be found in the pluses that we can indeed identify, which have not been achieved with that economic recovery. What is the message from the cabinet to these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	I do not recognize myself in the image that Mr Segers puts in his stories. That's not our message. Our message is that things are getting better, but that we are not there yet and much remains to be done. So that's not a cheer story, it's a very realistic story. It has been pointed out that we are leaving behind a very difficult time and must now take the next step with our beautiful country. This whole cabinet, this whole coalition, has only one goal: everyone is in it. Everyone's of value. Everyone counts, regardless of their skin color or whether they are low or highly educated. Can I make it very personal? I spoke with the son of one of my best friends the other day about the theme training. He asked me if I found vmbo less than vwo. I said no, but if you could go to the vwo, try to get it. That would be fantastic, because then, apparently, you have the talent to do that. Someone at VMBO has quite different talents. It's worth exactly the same amount, but try to get the best out of it and reach the maximum. Such a society we want, with opportunities for everyone, with fair opportunities to end up making something of your life. That goes for everyone. I'm behind and next to the welfare mom who wants to get out of benefits. I am from the refugee who comes here legally and tries to build a life here and make a positive contribution. I'm right next to that, and I support that, and I want to help him get the best out of his life and make something out of it. This is in the interests of all of us; it will improve society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	I think these words are good, because we will indeed have to cross over to people on the other side of the gap. The people here are often on the right side of the gorge, but there are people who are on the other side of the gorge and are really in the corner where the blows are taking place. We'll have to address those people, group by group. It won't just have to be words. I am not saying that the Prime Minister is going to leave it to words, because he also comes up with actions, but then we will have to address groups and make that crossing. We may come back to it more specifically later, but I ask the Prime Minister to listen to the cry of the Salvation Army. I hope that we will visit those people, for example in the ggz, who cannot go to the Malieveld and can't raise their voices, and that the fine words that the Prime Minister is now speaking are followed by deeds: yes, we are crossing the Malieveld and reaching out to you and are going to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	We take that signal from the Salvation Army very seriously. At the moment, we are trying to get a better picture of the exact size in collaboration with the Federation Opvanging and 43 center municipalities. Mr Segers was right to make a comment about this yesterday in his speech. On the basis of that survey, Rijk or local authorities will take appropriate follow-up measures. In doing so, we need to look at debt relief, care, but also at the opportunities to rebuild our own home for these people. I think it's very important. I think we all want to avoid homelessness in this country. One of the great achievements is that we are not America where too many people end up in a cardboard box somewhere on the street. That's not us. But if it does happen, if someone is homeless, there will be adequate crisis relief and stability and people will be able to work on recovery as soon as possible. We are very much in agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	What the Prime Minister just said in his introduction, we could also hear from our king in the throne speech. I think that story is a long way away from what people experience at home. I myself called it "a fairy tale speech." It seems as if this cabinet is in a parallel, different world, because what have people noticed in spite of the fine words of this cabinet over the past few years? They're getting a percent added now, the older ones even a little less. They have seen in recent years that, under the leadership of Prime Minister Rutte, rents have increased, that there is a risk of €385, that care homes have been closed, that pensions have been or are being cut and that asylum record has been broken after asylum record. The Netherlands has not been pulled out of the swamp; the Netherlands has been pushed into the swamp. And now we're supposed to be happy with a percent purchasing power? I think, Prime Minister, that you are wrong in all respects and that people do not experience it that way. You have followed the Netherlands with problems and the Dutch have noticed nothing of the recovery. Why don't you say something about that? Why don't you have something of self-reflection and why don't you say: we made the wrong choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	Look at the facts about 2016, the year we're in now. I am addressing Mr Wilders' point about purchasing power; let me respond straight to that. This year, 2016, the purchasing power improvement for workers moves between 3% and 6%. There is therefore between 3% and 6% increase in purchasing power for workers in the Netherlands this year. For pensioners there is an improvement in purchasing power of around 2% in 2016. Of course I would like even higher amounts, and of course I would like us to be able to reduce taxes further, but in 2016 we will see a huge recovery in purchasing power after difficult years. That's what I see in my own immediate surroundings. Someone who is a secretary in a large department, eventually improved net €80 to €90. That's someone in scales 5 or 6 and they've improved €80 to €90 net per month. This can be because we have made sure that 5 billion has been returned. That is what we are doing, especially in the case of workers. For next year, we also want benefits above zero and pensioners to be significantly increased. I therefore disagree with Mr Wilders. Of course, the ambition will be to move forward, but I say one thing. You can always choose Mr Wilders to do that; that's his style to always fly things from pessimism and from the negative, but let him realize one thing: this country consists, for the greater part, of a quiet stubborn majority of people who want to move forward, who see best things not going well, who really do not run away from the things that are not yet in order and for the problems that are still there, but that overwhelming majority of the Netherlands is increasingly turning away from this pessimistic sound, because they see that it doesn't bring anything and ultimately doesn't help us on the way to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	That may be so, but that means that the vast majority of the Netherlands do not believe you. This is also evident from all investigations, from EenVandaag to Maurice de Hond; you can't name them all. People don't see your reality. You live in a parallel reality. Prime Minister, you're saying that next year the elderly will get 2%. You'll only be an elderly person whose own risk is so high that your wife can't go to the hospital for a liver photo; I mentioned that example yesterday. You'll only be an older person whose pension will be cut soon, while the pension funds have billions in cash. You'll only be an older person whose home care is halved and who can't even go to the nursing home. And then there's a prime minister who says there's gonna be 2%. It's too embarrassing for words. That is a reality of the CPB. That is a reality of the bureaucrat. That is a reality of the accountant. The people on the street don't want pessimism. Of course they want optimism, but that 2% is opposed to all the misery you have poured over them. They often don't even dare to go out on the street to take a walk in their own neighborhood. And I'm not even talking about their wallet, the money, the quality of life and safety. If only they could be optimistic. You're making them pessimistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	Of course, people are concerned about all the points that Mr Wilders mentioned. The question then is: what do you do about it? People expect Geert Wilders and me to solve things next. That's leadership, Mr. Wilders. They expect us to make difficult decisions in difficult times, including decisions that are not popular. The day before yesterday, after the throne speech, I was confronted with a poll of the NIS in which the cabinet received a 5.2. I said, I get that figure. Why are we getting that 5.2? Because we have managed to get the Netherlands as a whole out of the crisis, but people say they don't feel that yet and that they're still worried about all sorts of things. Then the question is: what are you going to do about it? Let me pick something out. Mr Wilders says that pensioners are angry, because they say that there is a lot of money in the pots of pension funds. But we know that older people also have children and grandchildren, and that they think it is important that these children and grandchildren receive a proper pension immediately. We know the interest rate is very low. We know that this means that the costs of obligations are much higher. If you did what Mr Wilders said, and some of the others here, it would lead us to eat those retirement pots. That would be bad for future generations. Of course, we should not do that. That is really unwise policy, Mr Wilders. I am increasingly aware in this society, wherever I come from, that people are right to be concerned about all kinds of things, but in the end they say: we are choosing an approach that we are moving forward, we want to move forward and we understand that there is a role for us and a role for politics and that we need to do it together. With this cabinet, I want to be the champion and the voice of what I have indeed described earlier as the great quiet majority of people who do want to move forward, who turn away from that pessimism and that negativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	In doing so, the Prime Minister is actually putting a lot of people out of the way. Everyone really wants to hear a positive story. Everyone wants to hear optimism. But the harsh reality of recent years for many people is exactly the opposite. Today, for example, there were reports of 6,000 young people who would normally have had a Wajong benefit but who have now joined the assistance because they do not get through the inspection and who have no chance on the labour market. I'm not even talking about the very large group of young people who don't get anything because they still live at home. These are young people who would all like that beautiful, optimistic story, but do not get opportunities. I can now make a whole racket out of all those groups who feel the same way, whether they can't pay bills, lose their jobs or you name it. The numbers don't lie about what's happened over the past few years. It doesn't suit the Prime Minister at all that he doesn't give up any reflection on the possibly quite wrong choices that have been made. I would have hoped that the Prime Minister would have said in his introduction, because we will be returning to all these issues in a moment: we should have done a little more for those groups in recent times, because there are the hardest hits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Roemer calls the Wajong. Only six or seven years ago, two classes, 60 young people, went into the Wajong every day. They got the stamp for the rest of their lives: you are definitely unfit. Is that social? Does Mr Roemer think that is social? I think it's antisocial. Now we say: if you are really disabled, if you really are not able to do so, then we will take it for granted and we will do everything we can so that you can build a decent life. But for the people for whom there is still perspective, we want to do everything we can to make sure that they can get to work. I have often had this debate here with Mr Roemer. It is a fundamentally different view of the world and of what is social. For me, social is a decent benefit for people who are in fact permanently disabled for a long time. If the ideal of the SP is that 60 young people go into the Wajong every day, I'm glad we don't have that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	What you just did was get them out of the Wajong and then get them out of the picture in welfare. Those kids didn't get a job at all. I wish! I'd rather they all had a full-time job, paid according to wealth, in a normal collective agreement, so they could just come home and say, "I can build a future." I was at a practice school the other day, and I asked that teacher, "What's happening to that boy?" That boy had a low IQ. He said, "I'm holding my heart." That boy would have gotten into the Wajong, but he was cut. He might have gotten a full place at a social workshop, but it's been cut. He might have a hard time getting another rock level two, but he's not gonna pass all those tests. So what happens then? He comes home on the couch and I hope he doesn't run into any wrong friends. That is what the teacher says, and this is the future of many of those young people you now proudly say is the Wajong down. You have not given them a perspective, not an education, not a protected workplace, not a benefit; nothing at all. You can see who has improved in your own environment, but finally go with it to that other reality in society, which you have no eye for! Many here are asking for that. Apparently, you're not going to go there because you were gonna go crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	I was here in The Hague during the summer at a piece-of-the-art training programme, which makes use of the new possibilities that the legislation now offers. That's where young people get the chance to get to work. These are often second- or third-generation immigrants and often young people with a traditional Dutch background, with a very large distance from the labour market and sometimes with restrictions, who may have disappeared in the past in the Wajong. Mr Roemer knows how it used to be with plasterers. There was always some kind of prejudice about that. They'd be eating beer in the morning. Well, it's not anymore. Everyone knows: if you used to hire a plasterer, you had to set up a beer at 10:00 in the morning. This does not apply to these young people. From 9:00 a.m., they'll be hard at work to become a good plasterer. They're gonna get a job, too, and why? Because there is a shortage of plasterers in the Netherlands. This organisation makes use of these possibilities. They couldn't have done that before, because those young people would have disappeared from the picture. They would've gotten that "disabled" stamp. Now they can learn a trade and get to work. I was impressed by the entrepreneur who does so, who uses all the facilities, together with the municipality of The Hague. That's the future. For example, we need to help young people out of benefits, out of trouble and into work. I agree with Roemer that there are, of course, young people for whom this is not yet possible. We must work very hard to make it work for them, but let us also see where it can be done in so many places. What's going on in there? What can we learn there for the rest of the Netherlands? We should not accept the fact that so many young people will be 'approved' for the rest of their lives, as was the case a while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	All you've done is take away the little bit of income security from those young people. You do not go into it, but many of the young people who are now cut off from the Wajong, end up directly in welfare or sitting at home with their parents on the couch and have nothing. Therefore, the group of young people between 20 and 25 who depend on their parents has grown in the years that you are Prime Minister. Those kids didn't stand a chance. You put it away. You're thinking, if I dump them into poverty, they'll get a job, because they'll have to. The hard reality is different. But if you never get there and never show any genuine interest in it, you will indeed not notice it. Then you dump the young people in a situation without a chance. And I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	I find it so special that we are now having another competition: who else is going to work? Then I have to say again that every week I teach two hours at a school with immigrant children. I don't want to go into that fight with Roemer at all. I assume he's sincere about his care for young people. I know him. He's an honest man. He's a good guy. But his ideas aren't. He wants to give these young people a sort of income security for the rest of their lives by giving them the mark "perpetually unable to work." At some point, there were 160,000 young people in that Wajong. That's a terrible perspective for the Netherlands, isn't it? And that would have gone on and on. I don't think we're gonna agree on this, because these are really clashing world views. It is an absolute glorification of the Wajong's income security versus: there is a decent safety net, namely welfare, and we do everything we can to help people get to work. And we can do that now, because through the Participation Act and the changes made by this cabinet, we can now help these young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	That's a false representation of things. I said, like the Prime Minister, that I would like all these young people to have a full-fledged workplace, whether accompanied or not, so that they are covered by a collective agreement and have a decent income. Why didn't you take care of that? How many of those young people who really want to find such a place of work have indeed been able to find such a place of work? You can count them on one hand. Those young people are dying to see you, but they won't get a chance from the Prime Minister. What are they gonna hear? You will be re-approved, if you were already in the Wajong, and then you will be rejected or you will be good enough to find something, after which your income will be taken away and you will be on welfare level. If you're not even entitled to that, you're gonna be sitting on the couch at home. You're not giving them any perspective at all. The number of workplaces for people with disabilities has fallen considerably behind. Employers' organisations also say that it does not work, and we do not make an obligation. So do not come up with a few thousand jobs, while you are throwing away so many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	It's about the facts. They're colliding worldviews. Eventually, Emile Roemer and I are not gonna agree on this. Maybe that's okay. Perhaps it is a good thing that we take a different approach in politics. For the Socialist Party, income security at a high level is the absolute good. That's not it for me. For me, that's a safety net. Of course, a decent income is crucial in order to live well, but I want to do everything in my power to make people discover their talents, to get to work and to get to social contact. That's a really different approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	It is true that the Prime Minister's supporters are in a very different corner than those of Mr Wilders, Mr Roemer and myself. It really bothers me that every time young people are scared that there will be insufficient money in the pension jars. Let's be honest. At the time of the crisis, the contents of the pension pots doubled from 700 billion to 1,200 billion. You are talking about low interest rates, but it has determined politics under pressure from Europe. The actual interest rates of the pension pots are many times higher. There is still a great deal of profit being made every year. It is therefore absolutely unnecessary for us to cut down if we were to adjust the rate of calculation. Look at what old people's organizations say. Look at what the Nibud says. You give the elderly 0.7%, but they don't even notice it in their wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr Krol runs a party called 50PLUS. I have a very different picture of 50-plussers than Mr Krol. 50-plussers often have nephews and nieces or friends under 50 very often also children or grandchildren under 50, and they want them to be able to get a good pension. Look at the facts. So, what's it look like? The pension funds themselves make good returns. Mr Krol is quite right about that. But at the same time we know that interest rates are so low at the moment that the obligations to be paid with all those assets are also more expensive. That means that if we do what Mr Krol says, spend it all now, there is a very good chance that young people who want a pension in the future will not get it. Then Mr Krol achieves a paradoxical thing he does not want at all. That would undermine the fundamental solidarity that exists in our pension system. Then there will be a moment when there will be a rebellion between generations, when I want to prevent it. I want to find the balance. I want these generations to keep reaching out to each other and to keep building a bridge between them. But if Mr Krol gets his way, there will be a rebellion. Then, at some point, young generations will say: you know, with this low interest rate, with this huge higher cost of the liabilities arising from it and with the fact that those assets will not be there anymore, why should we pay? You'll cut a tire. We have a kind of basic deal in the Netherlands, which means that young and old are in solidarity with each other. That's in the pension system, it's in the healthcare system, and that's even in our social security system, in our AOW. I think that is a very great achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	It's killing me. Older people, by definition, show solidarity with young people. Older people all have children and grandchildren, and they all want it to work out. But let's just be honest. There's plenty of money in those jars. This cabinet has chosen to reduce the pension build-up. Why? You are one of the largest employers in the country and it looks nice on the purchasing power picture for workers. But of course it's not right. Let us be honest: even if there were not a penny left in the pension pots, there will still be enough money to pay for young and old for the next decades. Anything that is not indexed is not indexed for the elderly of the future either. So you're not just taking care of the elderly, you're taking care of the young.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	Your note fell to the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	I don't need my note to say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	But you did have it with you, so that's why. The cabinet has considered what it could do in reasonable terms to address the problem of threatening discounts versus the interests of younger generations in order to count on sufficient buffers. What can we do? The possibilities are limited, because ultimately pensions are a matter between employers and employees. The government plays a limited role in this. We could do a few things because we're dealing with the level playing field. We do this through the financial review framework. There is a new financial review framework in which we have arranged a few things to settle the balance between young and old as best we can. For example, colliders and setbacks can be spread over time, so that there is no immediate reduction. This has enormous effects, which means that the discounts, if they are to take place already, we know that we cannot yet spread over time. That's a very important one. The Secretary of State has promised to look at a few other things as well. Could you, for example, extend the number of years you've spent it on? This type of aspect can be addressed by the government, without damaging the basic solidarity between young and old, but reducing the risks of discount for older people as much as possible. Really, it remains crucial in our pension system that we maintain the agreement between generations, namely that we are there for each other and that we ensure a good pension, now and for future generations. I hope so too for the party 50PLUS, which is also there for 50-min.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	I repeat when I say that people of 50+ obviously have the interests of young people in mind. I say that there are good agreements to be made between employers and employees, but it is going to be a mistake where we, as politicians, are going to determine the calculation rate. The actual returns are many times higher. Look at that. Then it will be very affordable now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	The government doesn't control the interest rate. It shall be established independently. It looks at the most sensible situation. It calculates the amount of pension funds that will have to hold in order to be able to pay out enough in the future, i.e. for the current elderly, but also for future generations. There is something else that needs to be determined, and Mr Krol should also be grievanced about it. In the current system, pension funds make this commitment with a high degree of security. As a result, the obligations must also be higher. They are valued at risk-free interest rates. It shall be adopted by an independent committee. There's no political influence in that. But if we start messing about that and when we say that politics is a bit more convenient to pretend that it's all a bit more favourable, we're really taking a big risk with Geert Wilders' pension, Jesse Klaver's pension and even Emile Roemer's pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	Almost half of the gross domestic product goes on social security and all kinds of increases and reductions in the tax system. We have a very complicated benefit system for young people, the elderly and welfare mothers. There's a huge civil service behind that. These officials check whether people do meet all kinds of criteria for receiving such benefits. That often also gives crooked eyes. The question arises as to whether or not a person is entitled to benefit. Isn't it interesting to look at a basic income? Both conservative liberal economists and progressive economists have been thinking about this system for decades. That is a basic income system that provides much more security and much more scope for activity, such as the work that remains. Wouldn't it be interesting to see if we can simplify that system and increase security? As a result, we can create much more opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	As an active young person in my party, I've already figured this whole thing out once. The VVD also has a tendency in the early 1990s towards such ideas, a basic system of social security. There are two very big disadvantages. The first big disadvantage is that you make everyone benefit recipient. In fact, you do, because then everyone gets money from the state. The second problem is that you are making a simplification in the tax system.The tax system becomes a bit easier to collect, but not quite, because you are not suddenly away from the Tax Office or something. You still need a lot of tax officials, but there you can simplify a bit. In the social security system itself, the savings on bureaucracy are very limited, because the basic income will always be at one level so that people who are on the welfare standard or on the AOW standard or who receive WW or child benefit and those who are eligible for the childcare allowance and for all kinds of other supplements, such as the rent allowance, will still receive these supplements on top of that basic income. This means a problem for both the Tax Administration and social security. So both more ideologically I now look up with my hat from young activist in my party as well as and above all practically there are great objections to the basic income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	We are now trapped in an economic system that no longer fits the current way of producing and consuming. In the current traditional economic system, we are trying to keep everyone working and getting them to work, while we are dealing with a production system that can produce and organize everything we need with less and less human power. We will therefore have to implement this economic system in a different way, because otherwise people will remain on the sidelines. Isn't it interesting to see if we can make that change happen? Because this Prime Minister's response is still very focused on the old economic system, and I think we need to make that change because it cannot be sustained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs Thieme now sounds a bit like my father, who unfortunately no longer lives. In the eighties, when we were walking the dog, he said... Mrs Thieme will be interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	Was he good to his dog? I mean, in terms of name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yeah, he was really good for the dog. He was a pretty tricky dog, because I've told him before. He never wanted to eat sausage at the butcher's. Mrs Thieme will like that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	I'm very distracted from the subject. No, my dad, and he got wrong at the time, and he said: technological modernisation will eventually reduce the number of workers, people will have to get used to dealing with more leisure time and we will have to find ways to maintain our prosperity with a smaller workforce. The facts are different. There's never been so many people at work: 10 million people. There have never been so many jobs: 9 million jobs in the Netherlands. That number has increased enormously. Once again, there are concerns about further technological development. What is it going to mean for employment? It is my belief that this will lead to completely new forms of economic activity and to very new jobs. I am therefore not so concerned that unemployment will eventually rise structurally. I think that we are innovative enough to keep a lot of people at work, with all the social benefits I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	Sure, I'm not worried about that either. I see it as a potential blessing that with more and more technology, or sustainable technology, we can make life much more pleasant and therefore give room for personal development and more care for each other. But when you see that people are still on the sidelines when we need that care so badly, we need to see how we can do it. With the current tax system and with the current economic system, which focuses mainly on growth, growth, even more debt and even more production and consumption, we will not achieve this. We disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u40	Yes, because I love living in a country that after Denmark has the most volunteers, where most volunteer work is done and most care is provided, and where people are committed to bringing their surroundings of food to the neighbors up to and including family drive to the doctor and take care of the grandchildren. People are active in all kinds of organisations, national and international. It is one of the great achievements of this country that so many people are working for others. Last year, when large groups of refugees arrived, we saw how many people have worked to manage this, including volunteers. I've seen that for myself. At the same time, it has to be and-and. We must also take care of it, and I think that we can really do so: we cannot give in to the pessimism that technological innovation will lead to fewer jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u41	So I don't share that pessimism either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u42	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u43	But with the present technological system, we must only work longer and more often instead of life being relaxed through that technology and working less hard and less long. So the current economic system has a very strange effect. As a result, people are no longer able to provide care and do voluntary work in the margins of time they have left. That's why it's interesting to look at a basic income that allows more space for these kinds of activities that make life much more meaningful and can also create more quality of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u44	Okay, but for me it's and-and not or-or. Mr. Chairman. I have not yet answered a question, so even if it is true that only six questions have been asked, it is not, because this is the dossier I am working on today, and that is a little more than that, we will finish the day. Mr Wilders is going to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u45	I'd be happy to do that. I'll come back to pensions. My party, the Party for Freedom, finds it truly insurmountable that elderly people who are no longer able to improve their income through labour have not only been the victims of many measures taken by the Cabinet, but are instantly faced with reductions in their pensions. The Prime Minister says that he can't help it because he doesn't find that interest rate that is indeed far too low, that's what happens independently. However, I say to the Prime Minister that this is because interest rates are lower. The ECB interest rate is low and pension funds must take into account this low interest rate. This means that there is a need to cut down. Now there's one body that benefits from that low interest rate and that's the government, that's his Prime Minister Rutte and his team. The Millions note shows that next year the Dutch central government will pay 1.4 billion less interest than the year before. So the Prime Minister benefits 1.5 billion from that low interest rate. If he doesn't want to come to the accounting rate, is he prepared to temporarily return the profit of the low interest rate to the elderly to prevent them from being cut, for example by a higher elderly discount or a higher AOW? Those people can then be compensated for the reduced pension of at least €200 or €300 per year as long as the interest rate is low.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u46	This cabinet spends 800 million on the purchasing power of older people in 2017. Mr President, I would like to put a question to Mr Wilders through you. Does he know how much revenue from our natural gas revenues are falling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u47	That's a hell of a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u48	Yeah, but how much? Mr Wilders has the figures ready. How much is the decline in natural gas income?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u49	It is very nice that you ask me a question back, but I am talking about pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u50	Answer me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u51	No, I'm talking about pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u52	We are debating on the basis of facts, Mr Wilders. You're a former financial employee of the VVD. You know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u53	I can also ask you a question about immigration, but none of that has anything to do with it. You're not running away with that. You're not running away with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u54	I will give the answer: revenue is 7 billion lower because of natural gas. What Mr Wilders is doing now was precisely the problem in the Catshuis in 2012. Eventually we got out after seven weeks, but then he ran away. The first seven weeks were tricky, because he was just booking in the pluses and not the lovers. There's a plus on the interest rate now. That's right. Mr Wilders is quite right about that. But there is also a very large minus of 7.2 billion on natural gas revenues. You can't say, "I'll book in one thing, but I'll leave the natural gas"? I can't do that, can I? It is right that natural gas revenues should decrease, because there are terrible risks in Groningen and people are anxious. I am therefore totally in favour of less natural gas, but of course this has a major impact on the budget. So you have to do both. Mr Wilders, that's governance and taking responsibility. You can't just book the pluses. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u55	This has something to do with each other. I am not going to blame you on the pension file for opening the border and spending billions through the asylum system when you did not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u56	What does that have to do with anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u57	That's the same trick you're doing with the natural gas problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u58	He'd never pull a trick like that, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u59	I say what the VVD did: open the borders and last year's asylum record after asylum record. I ask you one concrete thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u60	A weak response; a weak response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u61	You can talk through it and find other solutions, but I say one concrete thing. The pensions of 2.4 million Dutch people are threatened by low interest rates. As a result, people have less in their wallet and can no longer work to update it. That's because of the low interest rates you benefit from. You're paying 1.5 billion less interest next year. I ask that, temporarily, until interest rises, that profit, which you do nothing for, should be given to the elderly of the Netherlands by increasing the elderly discount or pension as long as the interest rate is low. If you then fall into natural gas and other things, it shows that you simply do not want to do so and say to the elderly of the Netherlands: fuck off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u62	It would always be "pleasure," but I'm not saying that. We have, in structural terms, invested 800 million in the purchasing power of older people. That's one. Next, Mr Wilders says that the interest rate is a problem, but if we do what he says and what Mr Krol just said, then we take a very big risk with younger generations. Then we're gonna be politically setting the calculus rate. That's the last thing we have to do. Mr Wilders, as a former financial and economic employee of the VVD Group, would have warned Hans Hoogervorst, who he worked for then, of such an approach. He would have said: you should never do that, because it is unwise and you should have it established independently. How far can you drift? For me, it is very important that we try to keep older people in their purchasing power as well as possible. We are. As a government, we cannot take responsibility for the whole pension pillar. We must ensure that fair agreements are made and that both the elderly and young people have a good pension. That's crucial. We are also faced with the fact that we cannot spend the money twice with a large reduction in natural gas revenues. I come to the first question I have been asked about purchasing power. I can answer briefly, but I don't think I can. I am going to try to say that the group chairmen of VVD and PvdA have actually said everything about it and that I fully agree with their comments. That goes well; then we go to question two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u63	I expected the Prime Minister to be brief, but what he's trying to do here is above all expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u64	I was counting on you to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u65	Colleagues have indicated that the figures presented by Mr Roemer and I would not be correct and we would even be liars. You are in favour of this, and it seems that you are in favour of it. From my colleagues in the Chamber, I can still accept that, but not from a prime minister. So I would like to hear where we are wrong with the claim that inequality has increased in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u66	The inequality has not increased, so Mr Klaver is wrong about that. It would not have been appropriate in government policy either. We have always said that we want a balanced income policy and that we want to ensure that work pays. One example: after we had to increase the burden first, last year we were able to reduce the burden by 5 billion because of the slow economic growth. We used them for low-income workers. In the purchasing power picture, you can also see that the group of low-income people is growing considerably throughout the cabinet period. In the 2017 purchasing power package, we have put an emphasis on bringing older people and beneficiaries to the same level as the rest of the population. That was also the case for this year. We are spending 1.1 billion, including 800 million for purchasing power repair for the elderly, as I said to Mr Wilders. There was a strange calculation in GroenLinks' argument that EUR 2.5 billion in charges would have gone to the highest income. That's not right. Not 2.5 billion, but 840 million went towards extending the third tax base. We've lowered the rates in the second and third discs. In contrast to the extension of the third disc, there is a reduction in the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. If you add all this up, for example, this will lead to a very balanced income picture for 2017, in which the highest incomes would improve without correction 1.2% and now, in the whole picture, 1.1%. Within the lowest group, the beneficiaries and, in particular, the elderly were at a significant disadvantage. Now the whole group goes to 1.1%. Within the highest and lowest medial groups there is now about an income development of 1.1%. That seems balanced to me. To make the calculations even worse: GroenLinks also gave the impression that the high incomes there have improved €3,000 to €4,000 more than the low incomes due to the policy of the cabinet. That's not true. However, you can see that there are wage increases throughout the income building, either through collective agreements or people employed, which are independent of government policy. That is not because the cabinet has put extra money into these groups. What GroenLinks then says and what I find very special is that she wants to significantly reverse the extension of the third disc and the reduction of the rate in the third disc. That is precisely what affects people with a very moderate income, that is to say, under fashion. People with an income of €34.000 are very heavily affected by this. If you want what GroenLinks does, not only looking at government policy but also at what happens to people's salaries, you have to increase the tax rate for the highest groups to 80% or 90%. So you have to increase that rate from just under 52% now to 80% or 90% to achieve what GroenLinks wants. Then Mrs Halsema is indeed very far away, because she had once started a more left-wing liberal course with GroenLinks. But this? This is worse than the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'm glad I can still get a compliment from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u68	It's a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u69	The Prime Minister is allowed to shop in the numbers available. There are a hundred standard households and you can always pull out groups that have progressed. The Prime Minister can talk about exactly where the money comes from and how you move it, but the point remains: inequality has increased in recent years. If we not only look at purchasing power for 2017, but look at purchasing power for 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, then we see a big difference between people who work and people who don't have jobs. These differences in our society have increased. There is nothing else you can say but that inequality has increased. I'm sorry the Prime Minister's running away from that. The arguments he mentions do not alter the claim that inequality has increased here. I regret that, because the Prime Minister is constantly talking about 'working must pay'. That is all well and good, but we can achieve that by ensuring that people who are on the sidelines are at least as much progress. That didn't happen. That's a political choice. Stand in front of that, but don't sprinkle with all sorts of numbers to throw up fog. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u70	Now the monkey comes out of the sleeve, because it's not about high incomes. I thought there was the problem, that they rose so much. I have shown that to the extent that high incomes have increased in individual cases, that was not due to government policy but was the effect of all kinds of other matters outside government policy. No, Mr Klaver actually says that the difference between people in benefits and people working should remain as small as possible. This has a huge effect on the labour market. It means that there will be less labour supply. In this cabinet it's good if you put these two parties together. You have the VVD that wants the money to go mainly to workers. Let me just say it in black and white. The Labour Party then says: ho, so do we, because we are the Labour Party; this point is not only of the VVD. The PvdA says that we must ensure that we do not increase the income differences at the bottom by pushing the benefits down. So we didn't do that. These benefits have always been maintained and have also grown a little. Next year you see that they themselves grow quite along; look also at the elderly. So we have managed to do that properly. At the same time, we added a little extra to the workers at the bottom, which increased the difference. If that is the case, Mr Klaver must say: I object to the fact that in that lower group of people who are below average, the workers were making more progress than the people on benefits. I would add that the people with benefits have not fallen and even increased where possible. We have done this very nicely. Indeed, workers have risen more. That is exactly what we wanted: to make the difference between working and not working bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u71	No, Mr. Rutte. What I'm talking about is the difference between the highest and the lowest incomes. We can see that in recent years the average incomes have been much lower than those who have more than twice the average. I think that's unfair. The Prime Minister may point out the market wages that have risen and inflation and everything that is happening in the economy itself, but ultimately it is about the choices made by the cabinet. The cabinet has chosen not to give more to people at the bottom in redistribution, who already have the least. I think that's a wrong choice. Stand up for that. Tell me it was the purpose of your policy. Fine. But don't try to run away by saying it's some kind of natural law. It's a choice of the cabinet. Then stand for that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Klaver is a moving target. Where I initially thought his point was that the cabinet had increased the income gap, then the problem became that we in the group of people below moderated the differences between people with benefits and people with jobs. The latter is, by the way, correct in a way where the people with benefits have remained very decent and have been able to grow with them where possible. People who worked could grow heavily. That is very good, also for the functioning of the labour market. But now Mr Klaver is back to his first point, namely that those highest incomes have risen so much more. I have shown in my previous answer that his calculations are wrong there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u73	If the Prime Minister says the calculations are wrong, let's see them. Last Friday, the Finance Minister was very fierce: it would not be right. I sent it out and said, "Show me what's wrong, check it out, come up with the right numbers." We have looked at the cumulative purchasing power in recent years. If that's not true, I'd like to hear it. Let's see it. If the Prime Minister is not prepared to do so, then he must take back his words that I am wrong. If you're telling me we're wrong, show me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u74	Here is Mr Samsom's answer yesterday: you cannot, of course, add up medians. And that is what Mr Klaver did in that calculation. He said that this highest group has improved 2.5 billion thanks to the reduction of charges. I have just outlined that the extension of the third disc involved 840 million. I have outlined what we have done in the second and third editions and how this relates to the reduction of the general tax rebate and the labour rebate. The calculations just don't add up. If Mr Klaver asks for that to be done again, of course he can always do so. We all have agencies that do that. I would be happy if the Chamber or we sent that to the CPB, but I fear that Mr Klaver will not be happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u75	That's fine. We'll send it over. We will show how purchasing power has developed in recent years. I welcome this commitment. Then we can finally get some clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u76	I would like to stress once again that purchasing power development is really not balanced. If you look at what workers have received in recent years and what pensioners have received, the difference is up to 30% according to the Central Statistical Office. The Prime Minister says every time that older people get 1.1%, but in his own figures there is 0.7%. That is really too little to pay for anything that has become more expensive. Older people are really getting worse and worse. These are really the official charts of the Central Bureau of Statistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u77	I think it would be a good idea for Mr Krol to take another look at what the Central Planning Office says about this. You can put all kinds of figures on it and then you see what happens in this year, in 2016. You also see what's happened over the past few years. It is absolutely true that many groups have deteriorated in recent years as a result of the economic crisis. That's well known, but if you look at 2016 and 2017 I think we're doing it extra decently thanks to the 800 million. I'm definitely not running away from it. The developments in pension funds, which the government is not about, we really have to be careful not to draw that responsibility to us. Of course, they have also had an impact on purchasing power figures. That is absolutely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u78	The tricky thing about this kind of discussion in the Chamber is that anyone can shop for a table, a graph or a percentage in about 3,000 available tables and graphs. I admit immediately that makes it difficult, because a different table can be set against each table of mine. People look at their own situation and read that next year everyone will get a little bit better. It is not difficult to translate that, because one percent for someone with a top salary of a tonne is of course much more than for someone with the lowest income. This shows that the differences in euros are indeed growing. Even McKinsey, not exactly an agency associated with the SP, has come up with a report indicating that 80% of people's disposable income has fallen over the last 15 years. This does not apply to the 20% of the most wealthy, because there the disposable income has grown over the last 15 years. We are talking about 15 years and we are talking about measures taken by previous Cabinets. People read that, people see that and people feel that. Do not deny that the differences have indeed grown. It is good that the Prime Minister says that the cabinet has taken all kinds of measures, but do not deny it! Clover was just right: income differences have grown. And I'm not even talking about the power inequality that's grown even harder. Income inequality has just grown over the last few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u79	May I first ask Mr Roemer if he still wants to lower VAT?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u80	Don't come back with all these tricks. Why don't you just answer the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u81	This is a very important answer for my answer. We are having a good discussion and I ask Mr Roemer if he is still...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u82	Just answer the question if you agree with me that over the last 15 years the disposable income of 80% of people has fallen and that of the 20% richest has risen. That's what the McKinsey report says. By the way, I understand you're thinking of other tricks if you don't want to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u83	One more time, though. I will give the answer if Mr Roemer does not want to do so: the SP wants to reduce VAT. Not everyone will have followed it last year and that may be why it is illustrative. If you lower VAT, not only does VAT on household items in the supermarket go down, but also VAT on cars. Last year we discussed what that means in pennies for half a brown and for the next Porsche Panamara by Jan Peter Balkenende. We talked about this last year and then we found out that a VAT reduction in the case of a Porsche Panamara is about thousands of euros and about pennies in the case of a sandwich. That is what happens when you go from percentage to real euros. Let me give this example to show that it is a bizarre reasoning to go from percentage to euros. You can't do that at all, and if you do, Zijlstra's right. He was right to say yesterday: if you want to do so, you must also tax in the same euros, otherwise it will not be right. So you have to do it from both sides. For income inequality, we're looking at this. I always have to think about that woman who comes out of that bottle... to the gini coefficient that Klaver came up with yesterday. That coefficient shows that it has developed very neatly, because that gini coefficient has grown somewhat, which means that it has become less than more uneven. It just doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u84	Even the gini indicates that income inequality grows until 2021, but this aside. I'll come back to my question. The McKinsey report clearly shows that income inequality has grown over the last 15 years. The disposable income of 80% of people has fallen. That's what people are all about in the end: what do I have to spend? With the 20% richest, it's gone up. What is the Prime Minister's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u85	The gini coefficient is always good that the Minister for Social Affairs is sitting next to me! In the period from 2000 to 2014, the situation remained exactly the same. It has simply remained the same and I really do not understand what problem Mr Roemer sees. It also fits with a cabinet looking for decent balanced income relationships. Sometimes the policy works. It doesn't always work, but here you can see that it's really true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u86	This is exactly what the Prime Minister always tries to do by bringing in all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u87	These and those, Mr. Roemer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u88	Exactly. And the thing and the thing about the people is what they have to spend in the wallet. You can stand there arrogantly, that may be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u89	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u90	But the ones and the ones for people are what they have to spend. A renowned agency such as McKinsey, not even a SP agency, has investigated that in 15 years' time 80% of people have fallen into disposable income, what they have in their pockets and what they can spend, and that this has grown significantly for the 20% richest. That is why my question remains: what does the Prime Minister think of his boyfriends getting better and the rest of the Netherlands being able to take the hit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u91	We really need to be careful that we continue to compare apples with apples and pears with pears. That's exactly my point with Clover. Are you looking at cabinet policy? Are you looking at all kinds of other developments in society? Are you looking at the development of mortgage interest rates? Are you looking at wage developments? You can involve all of that, but of course the cabinet is not about that. What the cabinet's about, this is it. We are always trying to achieve a balanced income picture on the basis of all these factors from year to year. We always succeed in that. Look at this year, for example. We thought that on average purchasing power over all categories of income would increase significantly less than in the end. This increase in purchasing power is much greater than we expected last year. That's not because of government policy. The government policy led to a significant increase in income due to the 5 billion package. But then you can see that it's much more because of all kinds of developments in the economy: low inflation, mortgage interest rates, all kinds of things. All of that has working effects, which is good news for people. Mr Roemer, of course, has a point when he says: look at what it means for people's purchasing power over a longer period. Of course, if you go through a severe economic crisis, we will all experience it. That's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u92	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u93	Now we're finally getting there. I had to wait, ask around, listen to a few jokes, but now we're here. At last, the Prime Minister acknowledges that it has been very good that an agency really investigates what all the circumstances do with people's disposable income, and rightly so. For 15 years, it is indeed a longer period than this Prime Minister is Prime Minister. But if you find that 80% of the people in disposable income have fallen and the 20% richest in the Netherlands has improved considerably, you can also see that this cabinet has not changed that. That's exactly what this cabinet and this prime minister want. I am glad that he has now admitted that it is, but that is what Klaver has always meant: it has been unevenly divided over the past few years and this cabinet has contributed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u94	Then the facts. It is wrong that only the 20% richest go up. Over the cabinet period, the average purchasing power of households increased at all levels of income, but especially low-income workers improved significantly. They're going to pay a lot less tax. This means, for example, that the single worker on WML received almost 13% of this cabinet period. Mr Roemer is right to refer, as I have just said in my previous response, to the decline in disposable income, but this occurred especially in the crisis years, 2010-2013. By the way, households went down on it across the board. But if we look now, we can see that 96% of all households are making progress this year. Next year, it'll be 90% of the people. I am glad for that, because hard work, at a time when the Netherlands is coming out of the crisis, can and should be felt in their own wallet. As I said at the beginning, not everyone is yet experiencing that, not everyone is convinced of it, but the work of this cabinet is aimed at further reducing unemployment and making people feel in their personal lives in the future that things are actually getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u95	The last interruptions on this point. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u96	The Prime Minister is really trying to get rid of it too easily, even with Mr Roemer, especially when it comes to the gini, one of the criteria to see how unequal society is. The planning office of this cabinet itself indicates in the Macro Economic Recognition that in the coming years the policies deployed will increase inequality in the Netherlands, that the gini will increase relatively by 3%. That's what it says. The gini is not the right size to assess whether income inequality has grown in the short term. For that, you can look much better at the purchasing power picture. This is mainly about the long term. Then we see that, in the case of unchanged policies, inequality in the Netherlands is increasing. What's the Prime Minister's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u97	We fix purchasing power every year, don't we? Every year in August, the cabinet talks about this. Next we talk about purchasing power in the General Reviews, in the General Financial Reviews and in the Social Affairs budget. With unchanged policies, you'll always see crazy things happen in the income building. That makes a lot of sense. That's why we fix purchasing power every year. In fact, we have done this structuralally this year. EUR 800 million goes to the elderly, because we saw that they would fall by 0.7% next year. We have said: if the Netherlands is coming out of the crisis, then of course the elderly must also experience it. Especially since we chose last year to give this major tax reduction mainly to workers, it is correct to give 800 million to the elderly this year, out of the 1.1 billion for purchasing power recovery from the wallet of all of us. You fix purchasing power every year and you provide a balanced picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u98	That's exactly the point. You can see that inequality is growing through the policies deployed and that there must be a competition every year, a struggle to ensure that the purchasing power of the people with the lowest incomes does not decrease too much. That should be the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u99	It's just the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u100	You should see that inequality is decreasing. Then you could look at: is it going to be too much, do we have to compensate there? That's exactly the point. The policies deployed provide a more devel oping picture in the longer term. That will have to be compensated every year. It also shows why the choices we make on 15 March are so important, because this picture must be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u101	It really is the opposite, exactly as Mr Klaver wants. A number of measures to restore purchasing power, e.g. the rent payment, have been made structuralally for the coming years. In earlier years we had to repair for one year because of the limited wallet. Now we've been able to fix that structuralally. Even if Mr Klaver is standing here, I'm going to try to avoid that. He'll see that there are all kinds of outliers, whatever his policy is. If he gets the figures from the Central Planning Bureau in April and June, all those drafts, drafts and draftsmen, then a strange picture is gradually emerging. The policy of a cabinet is then aimed at repairing it. We have done so now with 1.1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u102	It's not about what the cabinet did this year. I congratulated you yesterday on the image it is sketching this year, and that is fine. I am looking at the entire cabinet period and, above all, at the longer term. The Prime Minister can't walk away from just seeing inequality increase. In order to avoid that, you will have to make repairs every year. Does the Prime Minister find it strange that I say here that this should not be the case, but that the structural results of this cabinet's policy should be that inequality should be reduced rather than increased? He can come up with what needs to happen in August and the Minister of Social Affairs can laugh, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u103	It doesn't make any sense. Policy is aimed at ensuring that we have decent income relationships and a balanced picture. In fact, Mr Klaver wants to incorporate the whole development of the economy into that policy. That is indeed more the CPN than the PPR in its constituency, if I may describe it that way. Then I understand. The Political Party of Radikalen in the Green Left, by the way, with some more liberal influence perhaps Mrs Halsema came out of it would say: you have to fix this every year. As a cabinet, you can't control it on a multiannual basis. If that's what you want, you get a state-led economy and a state-led wage policy. You'll be back in the '70s.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u104	The offer of the Prime Minister is the most similar to the offer of the supermarket "now of €4.00 for €3.50," while last week it only cost €3.00. Your own figures for this year say 0.6%. Last year it was 0.3%/0.1%, and then it was not structural. If, as Mr Klaver rightly says, we go back in history, we see that in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 older people were in a bad way. If you add up those years, old people are in a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u105	But then it will be correct if Mr Krol tells the whole story. Then you see that in 2011, 2012 and 2013 the workers were also in a very bad way. In reply to Mr Roemer, who had a right point, I just said that we were in the worst phase of the economic crisis in the period between 2010 and 2013. That's when we all went backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u106	The Prime Minister referred to PvdA and VVD at the beginning of this block, a short time ago, which had already given the right answers. Does that also apply to the answer given by Mr Zijlstra to a question I asked about work that should pay? It is not a good thing that, as a earner with two children in a rental house of €27,000 to €32,000, you lose your income on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr Zijlstra gave the right answer to this question: for a number of years, Cabinets with the CDA and Cabinets of this composition have chosen to gradually reduce the portability of the general tax rebate to the least-earning partner. That choice, which we made with each other, has an absolute effect on the incomes of a earner, i.e. a couple with or without children, one person earning the money. That definitely has an impact. This cabinet and previous cabinets have done so from an economical and emancipational point of view, in order to ensure that more people get to work, without directing them from the government and making choices about how families should organise themselves. That's up to the families, to the families. You will also notice that there is a great deal of public support for this. Then you have to establish that you want to do that and want to prevent it from giving too big outliers. You can see that before 2017 we succeed that this group, although the phasing-out of the transfer of the tax rebate continues, will still be in the plus. In the recovery of purchasing power, which is very important for Christian Union and SGP, we have also maintained the reduction of this transferable tax cut, while at the same time considering what you can do to ensure that this group benefits from economic growth. We've succeeded. Then there was another particular problem, which Mr Segers rightly raised yesterday: a earner whose partner cannot work, for example, because he is chronically ill. That is why we have allocated 50 million. This leads to a reduction in the maximum own contribution in the Wmo. This applies especially to multi-person households under the AOW age. It means that the advantage for that group comes to about €1,400. It is also necessary; it is good that we have done so. Then you will also see the importance of cooperation with the three parties that are here today, who have supported the budgetary and recovery policies of the Netherlands at all times. We know that this is a special focus. This concerns the income of the sole earners and the maintenance of the phasing-out, considering what can be repaired and not losing sight of the position of chronically ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u108	It's a good thing the Prime Minister is telling this whole story. At least two plumes to the cabinet are in place, plumes which the Prime Minister himself indicates, namely that there has been some correction in purchasing power for a earner, and that a commitment has been made to ChristianUnion, SGP and other parties that have made themselves strong in this regard, to force a very specific group of earners to settle for a very specific group. Appreciate that. But there are still two issues left. First of all, this is the fact that the tax burden is increasing. If you earn €40,000 as a earner, you pay almost six times as much tax on it. We also hear people from the Green Left and from the VVD saying: can we still know how we do this and whether we opt for more care at home or for care? We also understand that there is a policy to stimulate work, but does that really have to be six times as much? That's a little extreme, isn't it? Does the Prime Minister want to respond to that point? My second point is that obviously there are special situations in which people really work more and therefore start making more money, but still decline. That's not supposed to happen, is it? That is also within the system that is being followed now, isn't it the intended outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u109	I get the two points. I know from the discussions we had to make agreements in 2013 and the years after, that this is an important issue for the SGP and the Christian Union. The coalition's position has always been: we want to stick to the reduction of the transferable tax rebate, but we want to see what we can do to ensure that this group does not lag behind if there is an increase in purchasing power that was not there in the first few years, but now there is some increase in purchasing power and how we can support this group. We have succeeded in doing so, maintaining the reduction of the general tax rebate. But I realize that we think differently about that. It can, of course, have individual effects. That is why it is so important that we could fix the purchasing power picture. That didn't quite work out, but to a significant extent, for 2017. I also realize that, should Mr Van der Staaij be in charge, he would see it differently either on his own or with Mr Segers. I know. He would say from his conviction that it's not up to the government, I'm trying to paraphrase it now to make a choice how the family organizes things. The coalition, as well as the CDA and D66, say that we do not make that choice either, because it is indeed up to the family, the family decides who does and who does not work, but we should not send in the tax system. These are different approach routes, but they do start from the same point, namely that it is up to the family and the family to make those choices. We agree on that. The question is whether you still want to act in a direction that is based on the tax system. The classic people's parties say: we should not do that. I know that SGP and Christian Union have different views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u110	It would indeed be a good thing if there were less steering action, because now there is only one direction possible and it seems to be a punishment for unpaid work and care. That is, in my view, a point that other parties are also saying, and I hear that from the SP, but also from other parties, that we want a participatory society, but that it now seems as if unpaid work and care for each other in this way is not being adequately paid for in our tax system. We therefore call for the tax system to be modernised in this respect. I have one more point, namely that of the extreme situation that there is not only more tax burden, but that people really get worse when they start working more. Are these not situations where the cabinet says: we want to see what happens there and work doesn't pay any more? Mr Zijlstra mentioned that yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u111	It is an important point that hard work and more work in the wallet is palpable. It'd be crazy if it wasn't. It is absolutely true that the reduction of the general tax rebate can have all kinds of effects. That is why we have said that we must pursue a two-track policy. One track is sticking to that dismantling and the other track is to have this group reported in it as well, now that there is economic growth. That's what worked. We're gonna have to look at that year by year. I can really assure Mr Van der Staaij, at least on behalf of my party, but I feel that I am also speaking on behalf of the Labour Party, that this is not something that was limited to 2013 and 2014 when we had this very intensive cooperation. This continued after the 2015 state elections, when five of us lost the majority in the Upper House. That's what you're seeing now in the $50 million for the sole earners with a chronically ill partner. We had the agreement at the time that as soon as the opportunity came up, we would do so. So that is really a multi-annual obligation. By the way, in general, my commitment to this cooperation continued after April 2015, but we also know that from each other. But it will have to be a two-track policy: repair where possible, but stick to that phasing-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u112	I think that people are quite interested in this whole discussion about how we repair here every year when it comes to policies that are not only used by the Cabinet, but also, of course, by other factors. The Prime Minister was right to say the same thing. But the question isn't just how you do it. D66 supports the cabinet's choice to compensate for the low incomes, benefits and the elderly, because it would have been crazy if they had been left behind. So a plus is made of that minus. The fact that this is partly at the expense of higher incomes is fine. The Prime Minister is convincingly stating that the cabinet is monitoring that distance. There is, however, a question in there for me. The cabinet was planning to increase the employment discount, especially around mode. Some of that will be reversed. I mean, like, 500 million. Why wasn't it chosen to do that part by greening? That knife cuts on multiple sides. It is good for the environment; we have been able to choose this over and over again in the cooperation of recent years. It also has significance for employment and for what people in the wallet have left. So I'd almost say it's a multi-edged knife. Why was it chosen to reverse the policy envisaged? Why wasn't it chosen to get the 500 million out of, for example, that crazy advantage the coal farmers have in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u113	What we've done is what we do every year. How does the purchasing power picture develop? Parts of the package also stem from the agreements with CDA and D66. Last year, within the framework of the Tax Plan, we agreed on a reduction of 5 billion. There was another novelle attached to it to increase the rates in the second and third discs by 0.2%. The increase in the childcare allowance and the elderly discount was then financed at a higher rate in the second and third discs. So you always see that everything happens underwater. You look at all the buttons, job discounts and so on, first of all to prevent people with benefits or pensions from falling below zero. Then we could pull out 1.1 billion to raise groups as well. However, Mr Pechtold asks a more fundamental question: why not from the fees, why not from a completely different source? That's tricky. If you did that, apart from the exact appreciation of Mr Pechtold's proposals, you would blow up the energy agreement. That agreement has a multi-annual effect until 2023. If you're gonna do that, it's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u114	That's not true. We know Mr Kamp's attitude. He always says no at first, but then he starts thinking along.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u115	With me, it's the other way around. He thinks along first and then it becomes no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u116	Maybe I should talk to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u117	I'd love to, but not at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u118	I listened very carefully when you were discussing this with Mr Klaver. I agree with the cabinet that working should pay off. I think that is indeed the average of VVD and Labour Party. We are not talking about high incomes, but about low incomes and the difference with benefits. The cabinet rightly chooses to increase the benefits and low incomes slightly, but without reducing the difference, which would not make working for this group pay. That planned part of the employment discount is around the Modal; I think it is something of €150, but the gentlemen on the left and right of the Prime Minister will know exactly that. It is precisely there that we have the opportunity not only to raise and reduce the 500 million by means of these incomes; that is what we have done in the past with the cooperation of Mr Kamp. I am referring to the repairs we have been talking about all morning. We can also do it in other ways, for example by greening. That is a matter of making choices; that is policy. What you get in your wallet is one thing, but the other things you spend are choices. I am looking for a way to stimulate the impact on the labour market by implementing this reduction. I am also looking for ways in which I would also be able to get Mr Klaver on my side to distribute the burden better. Assuming that this would have helped the income, greening and employment, can we not be a little more creative in this respect towards the financial considerations? Can we take this further in line with Paris and the agreements on greening, in line with the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u119	I must say that, of course, I have followed very closely the whole process of the energy agreement. I've seen Bernard Wientjes eat up to four times with the president of Greenpeace. That went well, too. It was a bit reminiscent of the pleasant contacts between the chairman of the VVD and the chairman of the Labour Party, who may not be more different but still like to see each other. This has led to an energy agreement which is very fragile in terms of its implementation. Fortunately, the agreement is now holding, but of all the agreements of recent years, it is one of the most complex. Quite apart from Mr Pechtold's appreciation of the substance, my assessment is quite frankly that it is for the moment a past station to add this type of thing. I am not saying that because Mr Kamp would not want this. Of course, this debate can always be repeated in the discussion of the AMvB, but my political and social assessment is that this is not going to work now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u120	Over the past few years, we have looked again and again in the tax field at where this is to be laid. In my opinion, the autumn agreement involved 700 million. Do you put it in the case of taxes on work or taxes on pollution? Of course, we should not take any turns in The Hague, because then Mr Kamp will indeed be in trouble, but in itself the energy agreement does not prevent you from shifting into the types of energy taxation. We have done so before; we have done so a few times in recent years. Before people drop out altogether, I would argue that we should not make another shift in the reduction in working time and that sort of thing, especially for low incomes and incomes against modality, but rather to take this out of pollution. It is good for the economy, jobs and income if we look a little more creative at that point for about 0.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u121	I'm also looking at the counter-budget of D66. I'll talk about that later. I have great appreciation for the fact that so many parties have made a counter-budget. I think Mr Pechtold refers to this or possibly to a variant of it. This counter-budget involves increasing environmental taxes by 700 million, the highest energy tax discs, natural gas and withdrawing the exemption from coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u122	The coal tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u123	Oh, yeah. The abolition of the exemption from the coal tax for coal-fired power stations would really be contrary to the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u124	I think it is dramatic that we are giving coal farmers in this country an advantage in terms of taxes, because coal is the knock-on effect of climate pollution. Anyway, that's in the energy agreement. However, as far as the other things in our counter-budget are concerned, you don't even have to be creative in order to be able to do those things. If you agree with me that work in particular should pay for it, then I think that the whole discussion on this issue is a solution that will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u125	I am making another assessment of what this means for the continued existence of the energy agreement, but we will perhaps come to the discussion of the counter-budget in greater detail on the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u126	I would like to return to the point made by Mr Van der Staaij about families. There is a whole range of measures: the combination discount, child benefit, the child-related budget and childcare money. I really object to the frame the Prime Minister places here. He says that standing up for room for the family would be driving and that the cabinet isn't steering. If you give the honest picture and if you look at the impact of measures, the measures are only aimed at one thing: you will have paid work. That's the government's direction. That is allowed; you may have reasons for that, but parties who stand here for freedom of choice for the family may not be accused of restricting that freedom of choice. The exact opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u127	I certainly don't blame you for that. It's good that that misunderstanding is gone. I also understand what Mr Segers is saying: if the existing tax system with the transferable tax rebate is the starting point and if you are going to reduce that tax rebate, you can say from the point of view of Mr Segers that you are going a certain direction. I only think that the CDA, the VVD, the Labour Party and D66, when they used this policy in different cabinets in recent years, have just said that there is an improper steering system embedded in the tax system. So the question is what perspective you're looking at. If you look at the tax system as it is now, I understand Mr Segers' perspective. The other perspective is that you actually think it's crazy that in the tax system there are now things that stimulate one or the other direction. The main purpose of the tax system should be to collect taxes in a proper way. This must be done, because the public interest must be financed. As a liberal, I would just like to say that I like to see as little tax as possible, but taxation will always be there. Try to steer through that system as little as possible from the perspective of what was before it, if it hadn't been for this. From that perspective, I'm looking at it. I agree with Mr Segers: there is no blame for him wanting to move in a particular direction. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u128	I stand for freedom of choice. If extra money goes to the family in the combination of government measures, it goes to child care to a large extent. That's what you send. That'll send you a message. In view of the difference between one and two earners, which Mr Van der Staaij has just spoken about, it is sometimes the question of whether work still pays off. Then you send. Then you deliver the message: both partners must have a paid job. Three years ago, in the speech of the throne, the word "participant society" suddenly emerged. That was a nice find. I think it was the word of the year. After that, we never heard about it again. That has to do with this. We ask for a group of care for children, care and volunteering. At the same time we say: you will work, you will have paid work. That combination makes such a participatory society almost impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u129	The problem was not the word "participant society" but the impression that it would replace the welfare state. Of course it isn't. There was the problem with that term. In itself, the term "participation" naturally comes back to all sorts of things. Look at the Participation Act, which helped Mrs Klijnsma through the Chamber. As a cabinet, you want to ensure that you collect taxes in a decent way: no more than is necessary, with as little guidance as possible and with as little disruption to social life and the social process as possible. For example, look at the child arrangements. The old starting point of the classic General Children's Benefits Act was not to do income policy, but to make the difference between people with children and people without children. When people have children, of course, this entails certain costs. When people make certain social choices, at least we try to prevent too high a cost from hindering it, regardless of income. Here and there there are also child schemes that take account of income. That's fine, too. This has, of course, been extended over the years. But in the tax system, I think it is a strange phenomenon that the government says: the tax discount applies not only to the person who works but is also transferable to the partner who does not work. Once again, I understand Mr Segers' perspective. From the existing tax system, I understand what he's saying. My perspective is: how would you like it? I would like a tax system with as few incentives as possible. Mr Segers says that removing that incentive is also an incentive. That's his point of view, and I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u130	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u131	This naturally raises the question of what kind of society you want to have. For example, a partner can choose to take care of a parent or child and say: I'm quitting paid work now, because I want to take care of my parenting father or mother or I want to take care of my sick child. If the tax burden goes up that far, you'll send it, won't you? Why don't you send a family who wants to combine care and work in their own way in sometimes the rush hour of life? Why don't you send them when they're willing to make a choice? The cabinet has now looked at the position of a chronically ill partner and indeed comes up with 50 million because it considers this to be a real problem. My call is: look at groups wider. Where's it pinching? Where is it again in the division between work and care? Where's the wrong thing between one- and two-earers? It is precisely if we want people to take much more care of each other and have an eye for each other that the cabinet should look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u132	I think the Cabinet and the Chamber should have an eye for that. One of the goals of the new Wmo is also to make more customization possible. The Participation Act also offers more tailor-made work. As I said earlier, I am proud to live in a country where so many people are committed to others, volunteering and providing care. I also realize that in some cases, in many cases, it can be very incriminating if a partner is ill for a long time. I have the utmost respect for that. We should certainly appreciate that with each other as a society. There are all kinds of ways to do that. I do not think that the tax system itself is the most appropriate way of doing this. The tax system should focus as much as possible on the proper collection of taxes. Social guidance on other elements, such as support for family care, has to be done in other ways, but I agree with Mr Segers that we should pay attention to this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u133	I have one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u134	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u135	How's the Prime Minister gonna look at that? What's he gonna do? He says, "Let's take a look at it." What's he gonna do for the group that wants to take care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u136	That is not what we are going to do; we have been doing this for four years. The whole Social Support Act was aimed at making customization possible. It was asked: which of the elderly wants to stay home longer? Let's get away from the idea of the retirement homes from the 1970s, the nursing home and the nursing home. Let's really look at customization. The personal budget has arrived. The Wmo makes it possible to make very precise arrangements in connection with the pgb, so that people can really make their own choices. One is very bad on his feet, but thinks he can stay home with a stair lift for a few years. Another thinks that he now needs such a level of care that he really needs to go to the nursing home. I see in my own environment that there are very sweet, well-educated people taking care of our elders. If people want to stay at home, there is also good care. Look at the neighborhood care, which is now brought under the Health Insurance Act so that the bureaucracy is gone and the neighborhood nurse gets back to it, who can make his own decisions from the point of view of his or her craftsmanship. I think that is a great achievement. We have been working on this for four years, and where we can improve that, we certainly need to do so. I can be quite brief about a few final questions in the financial and economic bloc. We have, as we know, the Reward Policy Act financial corporations. Questions have been asked about this. Foreign companies that are established here, which are not covered by our deposit guarantee scheme, naturally have different requirements. We have looked very closely at this in the past, in the adoption of that law, together with the Chamber. The ECB has already been referred to, so I have already answered that question, as have the questions on pensions. We have also talked about assistance. How do we prevent older workers from getting started after a company's bankruptcy so often? That is what Mr Krol literally asked. I get his point. The Minister of Social Affairs has also announced that he will discuss the position of employees in bankruptcy with interest groups, and report to the House of Representatives. It is important, however, to establish that Mr Krol's question contained a little bit that the rules of dismissal do not apply at the start-up after bankruptcy. That is why the principle of reflection is not included. However, the cabinet believes that, after a start, older workers should also be included. So there will soon be further reports on this. A question came from the Labour Party about stimulating further investment in the Netherlands. Mr Samsom has already given the answer in his speech. I would therefore like to say briefly that the Dutch landscape on the government side has grown organically, and I would add that to the context of its demand. That's still developing. Indeed, the cabinet believes there is a profit to be made by pooling knowledge and resources more effectively, so that there is a more effective and more effective toolbox available. We will also look at what other countries are doing. We want to respond quickly and adequately to new and special financing needs, especially if the market is still a little weak. So we do not do that in order to replace the market permanently. We only do that at a time when the market is still a little slow. I do not really want to anticipate this, but the cabinet intends to come forward with a proposal before the elections to show how these investments can be better supported. We will look at both the business facilities and the major societal challenges, as well as the solutions that we can work out for them. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance are working on this together. These proposals will be sent to the Chamber as soon as they are ready. That is also in line with what Mr Samsom said about it. I say to the Socialist Party that I appreciate the Hart voor de Zak report on the position of small entrepreneurs. I recognise a lot of what it says, for example the proposal to extend the Retail Agenda with the aim of reducing congestion in inner cities. I fully agree with Mr Roemer on the payment period. Indeed, the government has an exemplary role to play in this. The timely payment of public funds to companies and companies themselves is of great economic importance. The progress report by the Minister for Economic Affairs also shows that we are doing better and better. I would therefore like to raise the target for paying by the ministries from 90% to 95% within 30 days. The SP also rightly states that small businesses are the driving force behind the economy and employment. The Netherlands is currently one of the five most competitive knowledge-based economies in the world. This is to a very large extent due to the hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm incredibly proud of that, and we should keep it that way. I really think the ING report is unworthy of ING. The ING is a nice financial institution, but this report can really be in the wastebasket. It's very inadequate. If we do what ING says, we must literally apply the French battle. This means that we must increase unemployment to a doubling, to above 11%, towards 12%. The public debt is now at 100% in France. France is not growing. It is a country that has not actually reformed since the Gaullist constitution was introduced in 1958, at least not in the last 25 years. Public finances are at a very high level. The differences between France and Germany have increased enormously. Moreover, ING does not include the uniqueness of the Dutch economy in its report. I am the first to mention our banking sector at the time of the major financial and economic crisis, first the banking crisis and then the economic crisis. My predecessor had to take very difficult measures together with Finance Minister Wouter Bos. At that time, I strongly supported those measures to save the banking sector from the opposition. Our banking sector has the Dutch economy on the balance sheet five to six times, the ING alone had a balance sheet total of twice the Dutch economy in those days. A second important element in our economy is pensions, and a third important element is the housing market. If we had not intervened as the cabinet did then, we would not only have lost the confidence of the financial markets and the investors, but the Dutch economy would also have sustained very serious damage. We have made sure that there is long-term certainty again about the financing of our AOW, our health care and our housing market. I'm not gonna throw away that certainty to make a bad report. I'm on the DBA Act. I agree with Mr Zijlstra, who has quite rightly mentioned it. There will be a hotline for unwanted effects so that the cabinet can monitor properly, with the aim of restoring the unwanted effects of the law. In addition, there will be no fine wave for good businessmen. But non-zzp'ers do have a problem if they are filtered out, and that is exactly the intention. I would point out that the DBA Act has not changed the distinction between an employee and azzp'er. We can still do what we used to do. We are going to apply the normal enforcement practice of the Tax Administration in this respect. We're gonna do that nicely. That means that if people have not been able to meet all the requirements beyond their fault, they will obviously not be fined. In the past, however, there were alsozzp'ers who wrongly used the financial facilities. It was a small group, but there was. If that turns out to be one of the goals, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u137	Are you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u139	I am nevertheless suspicious of the attitude of this cabinet towardszzp'ers. This cabinet wanted to get 500 million from the self-employed deduction of thezzp'ers. We have been able to reverse that cabinet policy as D66 in steps. So I don't think you have the benefit of the doubt. Now the law has been replaced by a new law and the DBA instead of the VAR. The new law simply shows that the model contracts are on the shelf, that there is a threat of fines and that there is uncertainty. As a cabinet you can say that the old was not good and the new will be improved, but look at what happens in the meantime. A client, for example someone who wants to have a translation made by azzp'er, is like death that he suddenly has to pay charges if it is not clear, because that assignment is seen as an employee relationship. Be very clear for once. This is our law. Those people can't help it. It scares off. Be very clear. Saying there's not gonna be a fine wave isn't enough. No, no fine in case of doubt. My question is to make sure that this new law is not suddenly a brake on work. There is fear in the market because people, by the government as legislator and by us as co-legislator, simply do not know what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u140	Here Mr Pechtold and I, and the whole cabinet, draw on the same side of the rope. It's good to establish that first. The main point of departure is that there must first be clarity and then enforcement. But at the moment there are people who are wrongly using the tax facilities forzzp'ers. It's a small group, but he's here; we know that. I assume that Mr Pechtold agrees with me. As far as they're concerned, they're basically employed. So we have to establish that it's fine if that group first becomes visible. I don't think we can argue with that. That leaves a very large group ofzzp'ers. For that group: first clarity and then enforcement. This means that there will be no fines for entrepreneurs who have not yet been cleared by the Tax Administration at the end of the implementation period, which runs until May 2017. That is why we have this hotline, precisely in order to make effects visible to Mr Pechtold's translator and to be able to learn lessons from it. This is what we really agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u141	Okay, these are clearer words: first clarity and then maintenance. It is fine to tackle abuse, in both the old and the new law, in the past or in the future. Abuse is at the expense of the benevolentzzp'er and the entrepreneur who wants to give an order. I heard it very clearly: as long as there is confusion, we are not going to maintain it, because we need to be clear first. But we will have to give it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr Pechtold lacks one thing from my answer. If during that period it appears that somezzp'ers are evidently not a zzp'er, then it is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u143	But that was in the old system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u144	Fine. Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u145	I call Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr Buma, do you have an interruption on this point or on the flexwet Wwz? 'Cause he's gonna be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u147	I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u148	I had a hunch. You can see we've known each other too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u149	I don't have to do anything anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u150	I agree with that in itself. We've known each other too long. I'm gonna stay in politics for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u151	Me too. I even announced that I would return to the parliamentary group, should it not end well for me. So Mr Buma is not getting rid of me. By the way, I wasn't going to let it end badly. No, well, I'm moving on to the labour market and the Work and Security Act. Questions have been asked about that. First of all, let me outline what is actually the purpose of that law. A lot of comments have been made on this. The aim of that law is to prevent the improper use of flexible contracts and to promote sustainable employment relationships. I know that there are all kinds of people who think all kinds of things are going on and say that this piece of legislation doesn't work well enough. I can tell you that the WWZ is being monitored. The law will be reviewed in 2020. For example, on 30 July last, the examination of the experience of judges with grounds for dissolution was sent to the Chamber. As a result, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment stated in a letter that he would discuss the level of the transition fee with the Court of Justice and the fact that some judges felt that the law left little room to dissolve on the basis of a distorted employment relationship. So we're working hard on this. In the case of such a major reform, it is also necessary to say that I have always said that you are making adjustments during implementation. VVD and PvdA have agreed on a few important adjustments. That package was sent to the Chamber earlier this year. As you know, this package stipulates that although it is normally necessary to offer a fixed contract after three contracts in two years with a six-month interval, it can now be agreed by collective agreement for seasonal work that this period is three months. This concerns work dependent on climate and natural conditions. This arrangement has already entered into force on 1 July. Then there are two other areas where legislation is in the process of being prepared. Firstly, we are talking about a transition payment in the event of dismissal. In the event of dismissal, an employee normally receives a transitional allowance or equivalent provision agreed by a collective agreement. In the event of dismissal for business reasons, it has now been agreed that this collective agreement provision at individual level should not be equivalent to the transition fee of the employee concerned. For example, this can also be a sectoral from work-to-work arrangement. This is an important point that was played by employers and employees. Secondly, it is now the case that employers are entitled to a transitional allowance in the event of dismissal after two years of illness. That's what employers see as unfair. It has therefore been agreed that this remuneration should be abolished for individual employers and that it should be financed in a generic manner from the employer's contributions. That's about the two-year pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness. If we then look at the situation, we are now seeing an increase in the number of permanent employees in the last three quarters. For the first time since 2009, there has been an increase in the number of permanent employees in comparison with a year earlier. As you can see, the percentage of the total number of employees with fixed contracts is still falling, but this is mainly due to the fact that more workers with flexible employment relationships have been added. This is not surprising at this stage of economic recovery. We monitor that very carefully. We are also going to look very closely at how this is going to develop in the longer term. I have just mentioned a few elements relating to dismissal. The Minister for Social Affairs will still be in contact with the judges on the basis of the investigation. This concerns the level of the transition fee. This includes, in particular, the granting or non-payment of fair remuneration. Sometimes this is taken into account when accepting or rejecting a request, but that is not the intention. The Minister is therefore discussing this with the judges and also the fact that the judges consider that the law leaves too little room to dissolve on the grounds of incompatibilité d'humour, i.e. a distorted employment relationship. Those are important things. We will continue to work on the further improvement of that law, but if you look at the broad lines, you will see that the number of people with a fixed contract is increasing and that people are flexing at the same time. It also reveals the recovery of the economy. Finally, I would like to make a comment on this point, perhaps also for Mr Buma, because he said that there should be a polder agreement on payment of wages in the event of illness, flex et cetera. I had direct contact with the President of the Economic and Social Council this morning, because I know that Mr Van Haersma Buma attaches great importance to that polder and I do. I asked the president of the ESC: if the President of Christian Democracy asks me such a question, what then to do? We have noted with each other that, in addition to an opinion on pay for illness, flexwork and so on, which has already been requested by the Cabinet and the CDA, a broader agenda is being worked on within the Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council has created a working agenda which will be discussed in the ESC tomorrow. I can therefore inform Mr Van Haersma Buma, on behalf of the chairman of the ESC, that he is being served at his fingertips and that the polder is busy with this request. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and his people are obviously following this very closely. This is useful and we cannot say: elections are coming, we do not need to do so. The work goes on. We work until 15 March and even after that. Perhaps even for a long time after that, because if the formation becomes complicated, the cabinet will continue to work. That's on the questions about the Work and Security Act and any arrangements in the polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u152	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comment on solving the problems of seasonal workers and seasonal work, where the deadline can go to three months. We have also often discussed the situation of people who do not have a collective agreement in previous discussions. I refer, for example, to the sports sector, where trainers have to be in service for six months and then get out. There's no collective agreement there. The problem is that the trainers should be dismissed after the sport season or put into permanent service. A second point that we have also discussed... I will wait until Minister Asscher has given the right answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u153	This is a collective process. Of course, I know all the answers themselves, but it is motivating for the ministers if they can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u154	I don't want to disrupt that collective process. Bringing chickens make you hatch their golden eggs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u155	Now he won't say anything for the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u156	My second point concerns education, and perhaps Minister Bussemaker can help. That's where the same problem arises. All invaders must be able to stay longer to prevent schools from having to call for a new raid each time. In the interests of the children, the same force must be available to the class each time. There too, the question is whether this can be solved, because the problem lies in the WWW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u157	The last group has a collective agreement and this must be regulated. About the first group has been good contact, among others with the KNVB. Moreover, it is not the case that no one is covered by the collective agreement; some are and some are not. There was also an information campaign there. So there is a lot of work to be done on this too. You make such a law, it covers a lot and then you encounter a real problem in practice. This has to do with seasonal work linked to climate and natural conditions. The question is whether or not you can make that six-month demand. I think this is a wonderful example of an issue that we have resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u158	If we solve it, that's fine, but this is typical of this puppy-and-wet cabinet, which makes a wrong law with a six-month period while the three-month period was actually much better. Now we're gonna try to nail something up again and make sure that it's still a little workable. Pragmatism is not strange either, but of course there are so many things to come. That three-month period was a pretty good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u159	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u160	Could we not include the three-month deadline in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u161	The law is normally evaluated. Everything's being looked at. Of course, there was a reason to go to six months. It was part of the social agreement of 2013. It's also landed in the law. There were all kinds of good reasons for that. You can see this in very large system changes. I myself had the opportunity in 2003 to completely reform the assistance under the Work and Assistance Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2004. I can assure you that we have had to adjust in the first few months and years. You can't predict everything in advance and not exactly predict every behavioral effect. That's not bad at all, as long as you're open to adjustments and changes. PvdA and VVD did that with this package. I also think it is very real to say: beware, the seasonal work we still have to take care of. That's what we've done now. So I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u162	A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister was at a meeting of entrepreneurs. He said there: if I'm honest about the Work and Security Act, I'm having a cabinet crisis. A few moments later, there was a letter saying: I am very motivated with the cabinet to proceed with that law. Today, the Prime Minister says: all kinds of people like that law, but we're just going to go through with it; it's good to work with. I do not know if the Prime Minister is aware, but saying one A and doing the other B is precisely the reason why everything that has been said in the last two hours about purchasing power and all the percentages that have been mentioned is no longer believed by anyone. People see all kinds of games and perhaps realities about purchasing power here, but they also see a Prime Minister here who says that we are moving forward with the Work and Security Act, but the businessmen say: I say that as Prime Minister, when I, Mark Rutte, want to get rid of it; don't be afraid. This Prime Minister has to understand that everything we do here is going to be futility at a time when politicians are eating like that. I hope he realizes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr Buma drove the cannon out, but I think we can easily agree on this. The CDA was once in a coalition: in every coalition you make compromises. That's a perfectly normal way of doing things. I support this compromise. But in their election programs parties color things to their own political party. They say what they would like to achieve if they had 76 seats on their own; Mr Zijlstra referred to that yesterday. That's the usual political handiwork. Mr Buma is now shooting cannonballs at this, but this is the normal political work. Of course, the VVD election programme will undoubtedly include a number of things on this subject, but I am Prime Minister and support this compromise and support it and defend it here. The same will apply to Mr Buma, who has not supported much but what is necessary in recent years. The CDA election programme will also show that he will continue to color things for the CDA. I'm not gonna tell him that's crazy or that the voters don't get it. They understand that very well. We will then hear Mr Buma as the leader of his party, who says: if I am in charge alone, I will adapt these things a little further. I can give you many examples of this. I remember last year's 5 billion. Then Mr Buma also said: I support it, but would actually like something else. I think that's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u164	The Prime Minister did not say: we must compromise, that is of all times and I support it. No, he said something else. That's why I'll come back to it. He said: I, Mark Rutte, do not want it to be honest at all; it is a compromise, it has to be from the PvdA and I am not for it. He was there as Prime Minister. That's one of the reasons they never trust us again. It's really the same thing as talking about €1,000 and saying afterwards: I said that, but you do understand that I have to compromise? Or: I did say that there isn't a penny left for Greece, but you do understand that I don't mean that? And if I'm being honest, you'll understand that I don't mean my words about a cabinet crisis. But it's not. If it were, trust in the cabinet wouldn't really be only 21%. If it were, the confidence in politics would be greater. People are on to it. Premiership is not some kind of annoying interruption of two election campaigns. It's a responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u165	If there's anyone who realizes that, it's me after six years. The prime minister is all about responsibility. I can assure Mr Buma that. It's just about responsibility, it's about making difficult decisions. It is about taking the necessary measures in times when the country is in a bad position, even if they are unpopular. I can assure Mr Buma that. I've experienced that more than in the past few years. I find it extremely honorable that I have been given the opportunity of the Dutch electorate to do so. I will do my best, and I ask for respect from the Dutch electorate next year on 15 March to continue with that. However, taking responsibility is also naming what you do not do well. I do. That goes for all of us. If things don't work out, you just have to say it and you don't have to beat around the bush. That's what I'm doing. In my view, that is what contributes to credibility. So I fully agree with Mr Buma. It's very important. We are all responsible for the CDA, the VVD, the Labour Party, all the major popular parties and all the other parties in this Chamber. Mr Buma is also right, the prime minister is only about taking responsibility. I can assure him that I have experienced that like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u166	Even in this answer, the Prime Minister is going to sit back in the chair which he likes so much more: give me a mandate on 15 March, because then I can move on. That's not what the chair's for. We all have a very great responsibility here. Again, all the politicians here this morning trying to talk together about purchasing power and what really affects people... that is completely pointless when politicians themselves set up two faces. One of what you really find, "Mark Rutte finds: €1,000 plus," and the other, "yes, the others, sorry, don't call me here either." You stand by it, Prime Minister is the core and if you disagree, you must stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u167	I have been allowed to perform this function since October 14, 2010. So in a few weeks, that'll be six years. The other day it was noted I think Frits Wester said that I apparently haven't changed that much. However, I can assure you that I have changed on the inside. This function is heavy. I've been through very difficult things, we've all been through very difficult things. The low point was undoubtedly what happened in Ukraine in 2014. The major reforms and those that try to lead through the Chamber in a good way, with a parliamentary minority in the First Chamber, are still trying to get the country out of the crisis; these are very heavy responsibilities. I fill it with the greatest possible concentration and sense of responsibility. That includes just naming and saying when things don't go well, not running away from that. I think that's a responsibility, too. Leadership is taking responsibility for me, but also naming it when things don't go well. That's part of the plan. Precisely because I believe with Mr Buma that we have only one task, and that is to ensure that the credibility of politics prevails. You do that by taking responsibility. You do that by saying it when things don't work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u168	It is indeed that credibility, and it starts with language, where something is thrown into the arena every time and then almost enjoyed by the Prime Minister that we try to say 'you do not, that is not the good example you set'. Besides language, I find something even more important. We are talking here about the Work and Security Act. The most essential thing for people is that they can provide for their lives by having a job. There's a lot of criticism. My party had a lot of criticism when that law didn't work. Then you ask the Prime Minister if we can do something about it, and then he just sits here quietly saying: no, it's a good law; look, it's all of its own; it's a shame that a lot of people are on kicking contracts and have flex jobs, but this law works. Then he is with entrepreneurs for a moment and he says: if I had my way, I would have a cabinet crisis. A cabinet crisis! In other words, don't change a bit, the whole law is judged by him as nonsense. That's where trust breaks in people at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u169	I have just outlined how we, while the law is there, adapt things that are not working properly, for example in seasonal work, and we have had other discussions. That is what I think is the normal work of us as politicians. With very big reforms, you have to do that. I assume that Mr Pechtold was also able to make adjustments to the social agreement when we had the talks in 2013 to get the support of D66, Christian Union and SGP. That's normal work. It is also normal that electoral programmes should continue to reflect their own political tendencies. That's perfectly normal. This will also be done by Mr Pechtold in many cases which he has supported. So that's not weird at all. Mr Pechtold has no doubt that I myself and the entire cabinet until 15 March, and even after 15 March, if this cabinet is decommissioned and a new cabinet is redesigned, will take full responsibility for making these major changes to the system a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u170	You don't get a cabinet crisis about adjusting seasonal work. The point is that after six years, you still do not realize that the most important thing about the reliability of politics is how you act as Prime Minister. At the time, the Prime Minister spoke of 'the great red danger' and said that the grains of sand would run out if you entrusted certain people to the Sahara. I like humor, but people think, "He's never gonna work with that." Then the Prime Minister said after six weeks: no, this will be an eight-year coalition. After six weeks, it was suddenly eight years. From that moment on, and I think that that's your problem, people haven't even accepted positive messages anymore, because the basis of trust is under pressure every time. Now to the content of the law. This concerns work and the way in which we as legislators achieve it. If you say that the law of the colleague next to you, Asscher, is actually such a mess that there would be a cabinet crisis if you said that honestly, then you do it over the back of people looking for a job. That is still the problem after six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u171	First I'll come back to 2012. Mr Pechtold referred to this yesterday. We know the election results: my party had 41 seats, Diederik Samsom's party had 38 seats. An investigation was conducted and all the other parties, including D66, said that the two should first try with each other. The country was shut down for four years. The PVV had run away from the Catshuis at a low point of the economic crisis. She hadn't taken any responsibility. We had a four-month election campaign back then. Then there had to be a formation, which normally lasts at least two or three months. Can I at that time afford the luxury of saying that I do not want to go with the Labour Party at all? While the voter says the VVD is the biggest party? While all the other parties say they're gonna drop out? There is only one thing that can happen: putting the national interest at the heart of the matter. The country's interest was that at that time there would be a cabinet as soon as possible that was still able to influence the 2013 budget. There was no other way. It would have gone against the interests of the country if I had indulged myself and said: well, I said in the campaign that I do not want to go into the sea with the Labour Party. After all, the electorate had said that we were the two largest parties. I would have abandoned the electorate, I would have abandoned the country and I would not have taken my responsibility. I just said it to Mr Buma and I am now telling Mr Pechtold. My job is only about one thing: taking responsibility in the hardest time for this country over the last 40, 50 years. Taking responsibility also means working with a partner that you wouldn't have chosen first, but who wants to take responsibility for. All the others said that we had to do it and that there was no other way. It was in the country's best interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u172	Now we're getting to the point. How did those 40 seats get there? By saying the day before the election that you would stay away from the mortgage interest rate and that point of returning the next day. How did those 40 seats get there? By saying that everyone gets $1,000. Yeah, I really don't understand how people got into it, but they did. That's what got those seats. The Prime Minister shouldn't say that he suddenly had 40 seats and had to work with Samsom. That is a forgery of history, for other parties said at that time: "You have fought such a battle, first solve the great differences over which you have declared each other virtually impossible. After that, we'd like to watch." That's exactly what happened, just not in a coalition, because I don't have to sit between that fight marriage. Now it's about reliability. We're talking about the Work and Security Act, because those elections will come. When you say about the Work and Security Act that it's such a mess that it could be a damn cabinet crisis, I think you should have the guts to say that that law is being amended. Then we will not let those more than 500,000 people who are looking for a job wait any longer because it is not a good time for the elections and for Mark Rutte. If your election promises were a financial product, we'd take them off the tube!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mr Pechtold is actually saying the following. In September 2012, when the country was in a deep crisis, he said, because of the way the campaign had gone, that he and D66 would not take responsibility, because the two parties mentioned had to bridge the differences. Yeah, those two did, because, given the state of the country, we didn't have the luxury of sitting around arguing for months and then looking at how to get out. The country had to be governed. We saw a huge increase in deficits. We saw the economy collapse. We saw that we were losing the confidence of the financial markets. Unemployment went to 8% and doubled compared to the 2008 situation. We were in an extremely serious, unsustainable situation. So who's gonna take responsibility here? Mr Pechtold did so in 2013. I will never forget that he addressed me here and said: remember, eight seats in the First Chamber, the sum of SGP, Christian Union and D66. That was about the settlement agreement. That's Mr. Pechtold I know. That is also Mr Pechtold I hope to have here before me. What he is now saying about his mindset in September 2012 is not worthy of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u174	It's purely forgery of history. First the differences with the PvdA were pumped up. For example, the PvdA wanted to limit the mortgage interest deduction, because that party, like mine, saw that the mortgage interest deduction, the largest subsidy we provide in this country, leads to a fixed housing market. First pump up the differences and then bridge them. What do you mean bridge? It took eight, nine months, and then the whole cabinet was in the swamp. Do you remember that retirement agreement? Everything was stuck. You wouldn't have looked at that First Chamber, but apart from that, the differences were still there. They were just muffled away for a while. Then we had to change all these plans again. Then we had to make it more social and workable. That's leadership. But the most important thing I blame you for over the last few weeks is that there is a law that does not seem to work, that you are campaigning on it, but that you are not taking any action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u175	I hold on to the Pechtold of 2013. I think it's here today, too. That's the leader of D66 who does take responsibility. I'll just ignore the 2012 Alexander Pechtold who said during a serious crisis: well, you guys take care of it, I'm not giving it at home. I thought that was incomprehensible. I think he and I agree: politics is just about taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u176	For the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u177	For the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u178	Shall we go back to 2012? That little adventure with Wilders, which still isn't completely ruled out? In the middle of the crisis, a cabinet was formed that after a year was on the rocks again with all the economic effects of that. Do you remember who did the budget back then? We saved your entire cabinet, your whole misery then, simply by daring to make policies, by dareing to say that something must happen if laws do not work, by daring to increase the age of AOW, with the support of others. Yeah, so I can play prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u179	Not in the cabinet, he wouldn't dare. I come to Europe and international policy. Can we do that before lunch, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u180	If you're capable of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u181	I do. Mr. Buma quoted De Tocqueville yesterday. I think he didn't quote from his story about France. It is good that De Tocqueville was quoted, because it also says something about Europe. The Tocqueville makes a comparison between America and France in the beautiful book on the democracy of America. He says he's seen both of them. When a tree falls down in America, the farmers come out with their saws and stuff and clean up the tree so that the road gets out again. When the same thing happens in France, the farmers come out and run to the mayor: a tree has fallen down; what are you going to do about it? That's a big difference between America and Europe. I will not glorify America here. When it comes to the social system and so on, that is certainly not our dream. But it does show how complicated it is to work together in the European Union. This kind of ingrained cultural differences exist between countries and we will have to bridge them one way or another. If you don't, that leads to mistrust between north and south and between east and west. We are having a lot of debates on Europe, so I would like to address a few more specific questions. For example, the whole issue of procurement bureaucracy has been asked. I can say that the cabinet is working for the European Union that focuses on key issues. I am proud that the European Commission does the same with First Vice-President Timmermans. As far as we are concerned, a better Europe is no longer Europe either. It is now mainly about implementing the agreements that have been made, and not every problem deserves a European solution. Many things need to be addressed by the Member States themselves. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about job plans. I think he is referring to the European Fund for Strategic Investments, the Juncker Fund. I agree with him that we need to make sure that the fund does the things it has to do. It must be an investment fund and not a job plan. So we'll be very careful about that. European procurement is indeed difficult, but it also has advantages. This will prevent corruption and ensure effective public spending. I can tell Mr Van der Staaij that the Netherlands has continued to pay attention to reducing the burden on tenders, which we saw recently in the review of the procurement directives. We also see it in pensions, because it is now the case that the Dutch supervisor can intervene if a Dutch pension fund wants to leave abroad. That seems to me to be a good thing, and so you can see that it also has positive aspects. I agree with him in general that we should be very careful not to create more bureaucracy. The whole objective is simplification: less hassle and a Europe that focuses on the main themes. A question has also been asked about the Ukraine referendum. We also discussed this last week in the debate in preparation for the Bratislava Summit. The Chamber is aware of the cabinet's position. I don't think we're gonna ratify it at the end of the day. I think that is the outcome in the end, but I would nevertheless like to make an attempt with the Cabinet and the Chamber to find a substantive answer to the no vote. Why is that necessary? If you do not ratify because of the no vote in the referendum, up to 85% of the content of the association agreement can simply be done by the European Union itself. So that part goes on as a whole and then 15% remains, but that 15% can be achieved to a large extent intergovernmentally. Countries can agree with the Ukraine that they will do it anyway. I would like to ask those who said that the Netherlands should vote no, if that is the outcome they wanted, namely that the Netherlands does not participate but that the rest almost goes on. It is my political assessment that that will eventually happen. I think the neekamp will say we bought a cat in the bag. That is why I think it is valuable to consider whether it will be possible to find a substantive answer to objections if more money would go to it, there would be more defence cooperation and there is too much corruption. We are making an effort to do so and we are doing so as soon as possible because we do not want it to last longer than is necessary. If that succeeds, the cabinet will propose to settle the matter in substance by all 28 in such a way that it is absolutely clear that we have a joint response to the objections that have been raised. If that does not work, I think there is a good chance that it will not succeed. The cabinet will come up with the proposal not to ratify. Again, it is my prediction that non-ratification on the first day will lead to "whore, they do what we asked" and on the second day to a "cat in the bag" feeling because then it turns out that most of it just goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u182	Before I give Members the floor for interrupting, I would first like to know whether you have completed this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u183	I am done with the Ukraine referendum, but a few other questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u184	I would like to suggest that you finish the whole block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u185	A question has been asked about defence and security. Maybe I can refer to the amount that will amount to 870 million by 2020. That amount is used for additional investments in the armed forces. There is also, of course, the Van der Staaij motion which calls for a multiannual review of investment. As I have said on many occasions, we will look at the follow-up steps in the light of the international security situation and the financial possibilities available. A question has been asked about the action in Northern Syria. I've even been asked to condemn it. I don't want to go that far. We must realise that the Turks must fight ISIS fighters at their own borders. However, we believe that every effort should be made to prevent further escalation in Syria. The Netherlands also calls for action to be limited to the fight against ISIS. It is very important that Turkey conducts this military operation in Northern Syria in close coordination with the other partners of the anti-ISIS coalition. Complicated is the role of the YPG, the Kurds in Northern Syria. The Netherlands also supports the idea of not moving to the west of the Euphrates. It is very important that they can play a role. Turkey is an ally, but also the YPG. The YPG plays an important role in this. These units are an important partner on the ground, on the ground in the fight against ISIS, and they are, we must realize, the only ground troops that would also be able to free Raqqa from ISIS. So we can't just alienate ourselves from it. It is therefore a careful operation, in which, in my opinion, the Americans are heading in a sensible direction. Those were my answers to the questions internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u186	That Ukraine referendum. Of course, with the Prime Minister, I was disappointed with the outcome, but that is democracy. I campaigned for it with my party and we lost it. The Prime Minister has promised a position before summer, in summer and after summer. I think dragging such a result is very bad for confidence. That's what the British are doing. I think they were surprised at the outcome of their referendum, but now they're going to spread it because they see the effects are bad. That is precisely why you have to show yes and no voters what the effects are. And of course, we knew that 27 other countries will have a relationship with Ukraine, while the Netherlands will have a different way. Let's see the effects. The world will not perish, but the electorate has spoken and the clarity is there. The very fact that there are differences then is very illustrative of what a choice means. I would therefore like to say that no longer hastening, no longer 'the big snow slide', as the Prime Minister himself sometimes says, which then pushes that idea forward. Show them in Europe: The Netherlands does not ratify and these are the effects. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? And my first question was: can we just get that position from the cabinet before November?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u187	I think it's an unwise line. What you do is this. You're gonna tell the no-camp we're out. That is what Mr Pechtold is suggesting as an option. It is possible, and it is possible, that is the outcome. But we must also realise the effect of this, namely that the no vote is not served in any way. The only thing that gets it is that the Netherlands does not participate, but that was not the question of the no vote. The question of the no vote was to get that whole association agreement off the table. That's not gonna go off the table. Most of it goes on for the rest of the day. I do not think that is good for the sense of participation and democracy either. You can see if you can find a substantive answer to the no vote. Can we ensure that the objections raised are addressed? Then I believe you're formulating a much more intelligent answer. It's complicated. It doesn't work in a few jobs. But I hear what Mr Pechtold is saying. We will do so as soon as possible. I can assure him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u188	"As soon as possible" I just don't find an answer if there are three promises: I do it before the summer, I take care of it during the summer and I take care of it right after the summer. That's what the Prime Minister said. And now it's "as soon as possible." That's another promise that has an infinity. It is not up to us to interpret who has said yes or said no or stayed at home and perhaps wanted to say something about it. It was a no. And everyone knows, or then finds out, what that means is no. On the contrary, I think it is very important that this becomes clear and not that we are now going to think for the no-voters. No, if they didn't realize that the other 27 countries would go on... So please let us have that view. Then Europe will know where we stand. Then the Netherlands, yes, no or stay home, knows what the effects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u189	What I have always said is that we are doing it as quickly as possible. I have always mentioned when we will come up with intermediate steps. I think we are still in that time frame, and we are doing so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u190	On 6 April, 61% of voters were very clear, and they said no. And no is no. The Prime Minister has repeatedly promised to come up with an explanation of how he is dealing with this, and every time he puts it out for himself, we can wait for it. The Prime Minister is ignoring the law. Can the Prime Minister now, on this point, give us an assurance when we are clear? I'd say before October 1st. It's been long enough. It's been 160 days. October 1st is fine. The preparation could have taken place a long time ago. Nothing happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u191	I sincerely do not understand Mr Bontes. He's asking to translate the one-on-one into the no. That may also be the outcome. I agree with him that you should do that as soon as possible. However, he doesn't go into my argument that people will eventually feel: but it all goes on anyway, but without the Netherlands; that's not what we wanted. He's a representative of the Neekamp. People will have the feeling: we bought a cat in the bag? It's not so crazy that that's my counter argument, is it? I do agree with him that we should do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u192	That is an interpretation by the Prime Minister of the feelings of the people. People have only one feeling: nothing is being done about the outcome of this referendum. That is the feeling of the people and not 'I am not heard sufficiently' or 'compromise on compromise must be found'. The people who said no have been very clear: no is no. The Prime Minister is ignoring that. I don't understand why he's gonna keep doing that. I get the impression he even wants to lift it over the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u193	I shall leave the impression to Mr Bontes. I sincerely answer here that we want it as soon as possible, but that it is complex to formulate a substantive answer in Europe that does justice to the no vote. That's complicated, and I don't think that's gonna work either, but I'd like to try. I am absolutely convinced that the alternative, saying that we do not ratify, will lead to a feeling among those who voted no: that was not what we wanted. Mr Bontes belongs to that group. Why would Mr Bontes not want to try to see if we could give a place to what was always said in the debate in the weeks before the referendum on accession, on money, on defence cooperation, on anti-corruption and on other matters? Why wouldn't he want to try that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u194	Because the voters have been clear and have said: no. Now the Prime Minister says: but they don't really mean that. No, that's what they mean: no is no, don't ratify that treaty. There is unanimity and then the treaty goes away. That is how simple the EU works on that point. Only the Heads of Government are making it difficult. The Prime Minister makes it difficult and complicated, because he finds it annoying to say to his friends in Brussels 'no is no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u195	In my view, the wide-ranging public debate in the weeks before the referendum made it very clear that people wanted the whole association agreement to go off the table. It was not their intention that the Netherlands would not participate. No, the idea was that the whole association agreement would go off the table. I'm sketching that that doesn't happen, but most of it just goes on. I have a question back to Mr Bontes: if we do not ratify and the vast majority of it seems to continue, then what will be the reaction of the no-chooser?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u196	That is the decision-making process in Brussels. If the Prime Minister says no, the treaty will not be ratified, and the other countries will have to accept it. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u197	That's not gonna happen, I'm sketching here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u198	Do you not respect a democratic right of the Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u199	Yes, I do. That treaty may be off the table, but the Union can regulate almost 85% of what is in the treaty directly with Ukraine. On the rest, the other countries can make an agreement with Ukraine, so that what was on the table remains largely material. Again, that doesn't satisfy the noe camp, does it? The Neekamp wanted all this to go off the table, didn't they? My point is that that's not gonna happen. It's all going on for the most part. What remains is a no-thumb that will say: but that was not what we wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u200	Mrs. Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u201	Neekamp wanted it to go off the table in terms of content. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u202	But that's not gonna happen, is it? My point is, that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u203	You have said that, and you cannot ask any more questions to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u204	I object to the removal of the majority of the Dutch population as a camp. The majority of the Dutch believe that this treaty should not be ratified. The Prime Minister has a point, namely that a great deal of the Treaty has already entered into force because of the European Constitution, which allows Brussels to allow the commercial part to enter into force independently. I would like to ask the Prime Minister another question about the other free trade agreements under way. CETA is such a free trade agreement that is already about to enter into force for the time being. That's exactly the same as with Ukraine. People are against CETA. Does the Prime Minister, in order to prevent us from getting the same thing as Ukraine, want to stand up in Brussels for a no to the provisional entry into force of CETA, before considering whether we want CETA here in Parliament? Otherwise we will get the story back: we cannot stop CETA, because it has already entered into force for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u205	This was the subject of a whole debate in the Chamber last week. But I'd like to get back to what you're saying about Ukraine. I was not talking about provisional effect, because if the Netherlands does not ratify, at some point that provisional effect will also lose its legal basis 'over time'. Again, that's not my point. I know that's gonna be crazy, but that's not the problem. At some point, that will end in law. In the end, the vast majority of the association agreement continues to be content/material. This can once again be agreed with Ukraine by Europe. The rest can be agreed between 26 and Ukraine. 61% of those who rose voted no; that was a great victory. I did not get the impression from the discussion in the weeks before that that they wanted the Netherlands not to sign. They wanted the treaty to go completely off the table. Now that that doesn't work out, I'm asking if it's smarter to see how you can give a place to all the substantive objections that came up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u206	The people who voted no did not give you the mandate to renegotiate. It was very clear: there must be a law that makes it clear that we are not going to sign that treaty. That is a simple task, which the Prime Minister must carry out as soon as possible, six months ago. In order to prevent us from playing the same misguided game with other free trade treaties, with a cabinet again indicating that Brussels has independent powers to continue, I would ask the Prime Minister not to allow the CETA Convention with Canada to enter into force for the time being, before the Parliament has discussed it and has been given the opportunity to hold a referendum on it. There is already almost a majority for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u207	Mrs Thieme has voted against, as I suspected. Her goal wasn't to make sure that everything went on, albeit the Netherlands didn't participate? I thought her goal was to get that whole thing off the table. Now it turns out that that is not possible, now it appears that, if the Netherlands says no, it will continue to do so. Is Mrs Thieme still satisfied if the Netherlands does not sign? Or does she not say that it would be better to look at the substance of the important points she has raised in the debate? That makes more sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u208	The Prime Minister is not about why I said no. No more than he's talking about all those other people who have said no for their magical reasons. The question was simply: are you for or against this treaty, and if you are against it, it will not be ratified. That was a very simple assignment. The Prime Minister turns it into a complicated story, by interpreting it and also doing selective shopping in the considerations underlying the "no'. He does not even mention the whole agricultural section of the Treaty, which was an important part. He therefore shop selectively and does not do what a majority of the Dutch population wants, namely non-ratification. The coalition agreement was clear: there should be a bridge between The Hague and the people. He is now showing that he did not mean it, because he is not responding seriously to the referendum on the Treaty for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u209	So Mrs Thieme says: I'm happy when the Netherlands says no, and then everything just goes on. I don't understand, because I didn't hear that in the discussion. I believe that the aim of the people was that the whole of Europe did not go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u210	"If everything goes ahead," that is precisely why people hate the whole of Brussels instruments so much, namely that people are simply going over people on the path of more free trade, at the expense of everything and everyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u211	You have made your point, Mrs Thieme. I call Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u212	I have a brief question about the defence point. The Prime Minister just indicated that there's extra money going there. That is a good thing, but we are still a long way from the NATO standard and even the European average. My simple question is: when would this cabinet want us to be back on that NATO standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u213	I can't put a year on that. I can say that, on the compass of Mr Van der Staaij's motion, we can see whether we can add money to defence over the next few years, including financial interests and the international security situation. This will inevitably be a step-by-step process. However, we cannot say exactly now: then and then we are at that 2%. That has hardly been reported by any country either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u214	The Prime Minister cannot give an exact year, but can he indicate something of an order of magnitude? That is an international agreement, because it also sounds the alarm in NATO that this is not going well and that we really need to get there. Am I supposed to think of five years, 15 years, 50 years? It doesn't matter anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u215	That really goes over this cabinet period and will therefore inevitably be part of the formation. That will be discussed at the formation table. This cabinet will find extra money where the possibilities arise. That's what we found, net 200 million. If you look at the whole over this period, it's 870 million, and that goes on until 2020. However, I do not feel entitled to say more about this as Prime Minister of a coalition cabinet which has elections in six months' time. I can tell you what we are doing now, because that is also in the budget. But I cannot speak on behalf of the entire cabinet about this 2% standard. That will really be a matter for the next formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u216	However, there were always cuts in defence at the formation table. On the contrary, we need to be clear about the urgency that we really cannot allow this to continue and that, as Mr Zijlstra said yesterday, we really need to take into account that, if we are to achieve this NATO standard in the foreseeable future, we really are talking about hundreds of millions a year. It goes even more to a billion a year that will be needed to get there at a decent time. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u217	I agree that we should not make the mistake, and that would also be contrary to Mr Van der Staaij's motion to cut back on the next formation. I think the conclusion must then be that whoever is at the table must continue to invest in defence, as we have done as a Chamber and cabinet in recent years. There's no doubt about that. Given the international security situation, Ukraine, Russia, Syria, North Africa, the whole situation surrounding instability in other parts of Africa, and the need for the Netherlands to contribute to this, to protect its own territory and to replace weapons systems, Mr Van der Staaij can fully know me and the entire cabinet on his side. There's no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u218	I would like to return to the referendum on Ukraine. I find it odd that the Prime Minister is going to tell us exactly what the no-thumb meant. I think it was obvious that it was about the role of the Netherlands and what the Netherlands should do. This means that the outcome was clear: do not ratify. I think the Prime Minister can just do that as soon as possible. My question is therefore whether he will indeed do so as soon as possible. It is a matter of substance or else I will get the same answer: that political part of 15%. That is also the part that needs to be ratified and why consent should be sought. That part of the trade can indeed remain the responsibility of the European Commission, of Europe. The main objections were not there either. They were in the political section. With the non-ratification, that's off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u219	No. For those who voted no, I fear that will not go away. Mr Bontes also felt that the aim of the 'no' vote was to get that whole thing off the table. I just outlined the two things that are going to happen. Ascending to 85% is something the European Union can simply do on its own and the rest will happen intergovernmentally. The 27 countries will agree with Ukraine on almost the entire remainder. In the end it will all go on and I think that the no-voters did not have that as their goal. That is exactly what I said to Mr Bontes. The no-voters wanted that whole thing to go off the table. I therefore call for an alternative. If it doesn't work, it doesn't work; I don't think it's gonna work either, but I think it's worth trying. The alternative is to try to find an answer to those four points that I have just mentioned, and perhaps there are more. The question is whether this does not do more justice to the no vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u220	To a large extent, the Prime Minister is right. The proportion that rises to 85% is indeed a competence of the European Union. Either way, it's gonna happen. The main objection was also not against that part but against the political part, at least 15%. The Dutch electorate has said that the Netherlands should not participate in this. If all the other countries then feel the need to make intergovernmental agreements, that is up to the other countries. The result of a referendum in the Netherlands is that the Netherlands should not do so. That's as pure as it can be. So the answer is not to ratify. We don't have to wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u221	I disagree with Mr Roemer on one point, namely the rest. We closed a Fiscal Compact in 2012. In any case, Britain did not participate. So we were not able to conclude a treaty at Community level at the time. That's when we did it intergovernmentally. My prediction is that this piece, which does not fall within the scope of the Union but falls within the competence of the Member States, is simply regulated intergovernmentally. Then you get a final situation in which we vote no, with which the existing association agreement is off the table, but then everything relives and continues. I wonder whether Mr Roos, Mr Baudet, Mr Roemer and all the others who were against would not feel that they were buying. My prophecy is that they'll feel bought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u222	I think it's very pure what we're doing. If other countries want to conclude a treaty with Ukraine, then we will have no influence on it. We have presented to the electorate what the role of the Netherlands must be. The rash was clear. A clear majority felt that we should not sign. You can find all kinds of things when other countries are going to conclude treaties with anyone you can be happy with or not happy with, but the fact is that we have to do what we have presented to the Dutch. So, yeah, come to the room quickly, but don't rat it out. Finally, I have one question. "As soon as possible" can also be until St. Juttemis. Let the Prime Minister at least admit that he is the problem owner of the result of the referendum. There's no way he's gonna lift it over the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u223	What interest do I have in this swinging every time? Of course I'll try to do it as soon as I can. I'm not waiting for this either. We've been talking about it for half an hour. As Prime Minister, I think I'm also committed to looking at it together. I might also like to make proposals to the Chamber to see if it works. But I'm not sure. I already told you it might not work. Then I will come up with the proposal not to ratify. I think it is worth looking at whether we can formulate a more substantive answer than we say 'we are not in', while the rest just goes on. I predict that a lot of people here and a lot of people in the country who voted against will say: we feel bought. I can see that. I say to those people: there was an alternative, but Mr Roemer was not allowed to do so. That does not seem sensible to me, so give me a chance to see as soon as possible whether we can give these substantive objections a place. If that doesn't work, we'll come up with the withdrawal bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u224	I can get really mad about this. I think a lot of people in the Netherlands are furious about this. We saw it in 2005 with the European Constitution. The Dutch people said no then and the then cabinet changed two commas and ratified it. The voter was a fool. We're seeing it again now. There was only one question, Prime Minister, one question. What will the rest of Europe do if you vote against ratification? The question was: do you vote for or against the adoption of the treaty with Ukraine? That was the only question. The Dutch people said no. There is only one thing you can do: not ratify. If Europe continues to do so, it says more about Europe and why we should say goodbye to the Brussels bureaucrats than about the electorate. The voter spoke on one question and said no. If you do anything else, you're not worth the cut in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u225	Even Mr Wilders can have 27 other countries, that is not to say that the European Union should not prohibit them from making agreements with Ukraine which are in fact the same as what is now contained in the association agreement. So what does Geert Wilders get? He then gets that the no vote will be converted into repealing the confirmation law. Then we will not sign and the association agreement will not be able to continue as it stands. My prediction is that it almost goes on after all. He can't stop that either, because that doesn't even have anything to do with Europe. This has to do with freedom of association and assembly. Countries may make intergovernmental agreements of this kind. That is outside the European Union. Then he bought a cat in the bag, didn't he? Then he doesn't do justice to the people who voted no, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u226	Prime Minister, you don't have to decide when you do justice to the people who voted no. People voted no. That means that you should not ratify the treaty. If one is stupid enough to let it go, then without the Netherlands, because we have not ratified it. That is the consequence you must draw. It's not even just about that treaty with Ukraine. It is about the fact that, for the first time since 2005, we had another referendum in the Netherlands, which was also about it, and about the need to respect the voice of the people. That voice must be respected. If you do not, and if you have kept this in your back pocket for almost 200 days, the electorate still has zero confidence in this policy. So that goes far beyond just the referendum. So I would ask you once again whether you would like to submit the repeal law by means of an accompanying law, preferably today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u227	It's just the other way around. If we do what Geert Wilders and some others ask here, I already have a conflict here with no-voters: Roemer and Wilders on the one hand and Bontes on the other. After all, Mr Bontes has just said that he is concerned that the whole treaty is off the table. My point is that, in the end, it will prove that the treaty is largely going ahead, for the most part. So I have a conflict with a number of people here in the Chamber anyway. There is nothing I can do about that; that simply has to do with the fact that you cannot ban other countries from going on with each other. This is not about the European Union, but primarily about countries that make such an arrangement with Ukraine. My prediction is that that's going to happen. Then it is inevitable that people will feel that they have actually been bought, that they have bought a cat in the bag and that it has not come true. Mr Wilders, I really do not understand why you want to take that risk, because that is precisely why the electorate will feel bought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u228	The Prime Minister is the cat in the bag. You are the cat in the bag, because the Dutch people voted. The Dutch people have said no. She has not asked you to interpret that and what is the best result. No is no. Even Mr Pechtold, who, as he himself said, has campaigned to stop the 'no' vote, now says: carry it out! Friend and enemy of the referendum and of the treaty say: listen to the Dutch people. If you do not, the result is not the cat in the bag, but you are the cat in the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u229	We can talk louder and louder, but that does not strengthen the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u230	"As soon as possible" you can't say six months later. The law says "as soon as possible." I listened to the answers. We've got five months left. We're not gonna see the Prime Minister just pull this off for him, are we? He doesn't think: there will be the argument that there will be elections and then I'll just put this on the table of a new coalition to be formed, which will then be able to figure out what to do? This is another example of responsibility and trust. It is the Prime Minister's job to carry this out as a matter of fact from the left to the right, from the hardest to the hardest against, it is said: implement this and come up with a position. This is also an example for the British, who are now pretending to be able to say no to Europe for free. Within a week this cost 30 billion for pension funds here in the Netherlands and the pound blew down. The British now know how to slow it down. Do you know why they can slow it down? Because they're pushing it out for themselves. Meanwhile, they're spawning the business community to stay there. No, the effects within the European Union must be clear. If you're against something, it's not free. If you are against the Ukraine Treaty, 27 other countries will continue. They are going to make security agreements and economic agreements, and they are going to take advantage of those benefits. The Netherlands does not. Has the Netherlands chosen to do so? Whether that choice was conscious or unconscious will be a concern. The Netherlands said no. Execute it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u231	There is, however, a very big difference between the UK referendum on whether or not to continue EU membership, the so-called "brexirefreendum," and the Ukraine referendum that is before us. Those are really two completely different things. I fully agree with Mr Pechtold: in all cases, you need to clarify as quickly as possible what you are doing with the outcome of such a referendum. This is true here and so is the United Kingdom, but it is very different. I can assure Mr Pechtold that I have no interest in stretching this longer than is necessary. We know what happens if we vote no: then it all goes on. I believe, on the basis of my responsibility, that it is worth trying to formulate a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u232	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u233	The result could be a yes, but it could certainly be a no. You have had months, with your entire cabinet, to think about what a no would mean in the referendum. There were two options: yes and no. With a yes, you didn't have to do anything. But you could have prepared yourself for a no, couldn't you? Or did it happen to you that people could vote no, too? You act as if it was only now, six months after the referendum, that the thinking started. Then what are you all doing in Brussels? This is about credibility again. This is about reliability again. This is about you having to do that when the voter says something. It would be nice if after 15 March we were to say: well, the electorate has spoken but we remain in the present composition, because we are going to have a good look at whether the voters actually found what they voted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u234	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u235	I wonder whether this would serve credibility and reliability. Mr Pechtold was in favour. He's got an agenda now. He says: "Don't ratify and everyone will see the consequences; then it's over with such referenda on international issues. That's his schedule. He says, "Make it clear, make it visible." That's what he said in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u236	Very briefly, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u237	That's what he said when he started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u238	Let's check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u239	Yes, make it clear, but don't think for me too! Yeah, I was ahead, and I campaigned. You were in favor too, but you were too busy with other things. I haven't seen a campaign of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u240	In any case, Mr Pechtold said that when he started his interruption. He said: I just want clarity and then the people who voted no also see what the consequences are. But those consequences are that everything goes on. And that is what Mr Pechtold wants to make visible. Then I'll say it right. I don't think that's reliable and solid. I think it is reliable and sound to see if you can formulate a substantive answer. That's my point. In my opinion, that is the end of the international block. Then I come to the block of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u241	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u242	No? I'm not getting to the migration block. Let's eat!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u243	I suggest we suspend until 2:00 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work, to continue this debate ten minutes later. Mr. Bontes, can you live with this? You will be given the floor later to make your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u244	I'm fine with making my point after lunch, but it still relates to this block. I'm okay with getting on with that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u245	You will have the opportunity to make your point.
