ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group. For the sake of completeness, I would like to point out that speaking time is two minutes, including tabling any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. What's worthy of it if a mother and ALS patient can't stay home when she wants to? You're too expensive at home because it's cheaper to give you care in a nursing home. I have put these questions in writing to the Secretary of State, but he said that he is not yet able to answer them, because there is a need for coordination with those involved. I invite the Secretary of State along this way to visit this mother with me and talk to her about her situation. I'd like to hear if he'd like to go into that. On the occasion of the debate, I would like to table two motions: one to reverse the austerity that no one wants, and one to standardise the reduction of what no one wants, namely the drugging of people in institutions. My firm conviction is that we do not come out without standards. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to cut 500 million on long-term care by 2017;]] [[Considering that in long-term care the soil has been reached and every penny of austerity will have a significant negative impact on the health, well-being and dignity of people who depend on this care;]] [[Considers that the announced austerity is already working disastrously in the sector as the preparation for austerity is being put into effect;]] [[calls on the government to remove the proposed reduction of 500 million on long-term care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-203]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	I have a question for you anyway. This motion concerns the structural austerity of 500 million in 2017. I imagine the SP has also thought about coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Last year there was 5 billion in tax cuts. Let us use 500 million of these for long-term care. We can pay for this by robbing the premium we pay annually not for 10 billion, but for 9.5 billion. It can be paid fine, only a little less tax discount goes to business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	That's pretty creative. We're not talking about last year, we're talking about 2017. Why is that cover proposal not included in the motion so that it can be reviewed by other parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	To give the government the freedom to look for something else. Because that's very easy. We have heard that extra money is going to come for the Defense Department, but we have not seen any cover proposals for that either. By the way, that is the great wish of the VVD and apparently there is money available for that. The VVD knows it's about political choices. There's a lot of money, but there's got to be 500 million off old-age care. I hear the Secretary of State say in every radio item that he's looking for money everywhere, and I'm happy to give him the space to get it from anywhere. Otherwise, the reasoning is that we have such a specific proposal for cover that he cannot be in favour of it. If we say that there must be more money for the defense because it is no longer there, then there must also be more money for the elderly and the disabled, because that is no longer the case. Those are just political choices, I say to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	I ask you to submit your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	I do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite previous commitments, no efforts are being made to reduce the unnecessary use of psychopharmaceuticals in inpatient care;]] [[noting that an investigation is currently being carried out into reducing the unnecessary use of psychopharmaceuticals and that a task force has been set up on this topic;]] [[Considers that an effort, preferably developed by the field, is an important benchmark to work towards and has worked well in previous initiatives to reduce coercive measures;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure a target or percentage for reducing the unnecessary use of psychopharmaceutical in inpatient care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. I only have two minutes to speak for the entire care of the elderly, so I have to confine myself. During the AO on 14 April I discussed in particular the report of the hunting team, one of the 20 or 30 hunting teams led by Marnix Norder, about longer independent living. Since the report of the Environment and Infrastructure Council of January 2014, we have known that there are tens of thousands of adapted care homes in short supply. And yet this government continues to operate within the existing dogmas. That is eternal sin, because if we want to facilitate people to stay in their own homes for as long as possible, there must be adequate adapted care homes. Mr Norder's chasing team didn't deliver anything. I'm not the only one who says that, because that's what ActiZ and ANBO say. This is an eternal sin, because these homes are incredibly needed, not only for the elderly, but also for people with physical or intellectual disabilities. There's something very wrong with the housing assignment. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas housing corporations have become very reluctant to invest in care homes, because their operation as a result of appropriate allocation is not economically feasible;]] [[Whereas the cost of a home made suitable for people with intensive care needs is much higher than the cost of a regular rental accommodation;]] [[Whereas the elaboration of appropriate allocation conflicts with the purpose of the Long-Term Care Act, such as freedom of choice;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the voluntary allocation of residences to people with a Wlz indication as appropriate in all cases where those homes require a higher rent due to the special facilities provided,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is right that Mrs Keijzer should draw attention to this problem. I just wonder if a motion has not already been tabled by the CDA to another committee on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	We raise this issue in several places, because it is so very important. This motion has a different text and goes much more into the concerns of the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is unclear to me what the difference is between one motion and the other. I'll take a good look at it. However, if there is hardly any nuance in it, I would ask Mrs Keijzer to table a motion in one place for clarity. At least I'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	I had a little back-spoke. It is, in itself, possible to make very similar motions on several occasions. Whether that's preferable is verse two, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	It's okay, I get it. The point is that you have already voted in favour of a motion that may be very similar to another one. Then you have to ask yourself whether you are willing to vote for the same type of motion on several fronts. So it's okay, but it's a trade-off from a party itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	Always, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	That brings me to another question. We voted against the other motion, because it meant that the points of the house would change enormously, so that extremely high rents can be requested from people, just because they have a customized home. That can't be the CDA's intention, can it? Has that been modified in this motion? I can't see that very well, because I don't have the text yet. I would like to clarify that from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	May I first ask you if you remember the occasion at which this other motion was tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	I'm not sure. At least it was about renting and house adjustments. If a house is adapted and made energy-friendly, more points can be charged. As a result, the rent increases. So you not only have an energy-efficient home, but also a higher rent. If that is the case with a customized home, we do not necessarily help people who have a customized home. That was, for example, why we voted against that earlier motion. In order to form an opinion on this matter, I would like to know whether that element has been removed or whether it is still in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	The motion is now being distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	This motion does not mention the points relating to the adjustment for the benefit of the need for care. I understand the point made by Mrs Leijten. Let us look together at how we can adapt the motion so that we can deal with this major problem that is currently taking place in the care of the elderly. Now it's just that corporations no longer go with care institutions to, for example, convert existing care homes to care apartments or to realize new care institutions because of the costs they have to make to adjust the home. As a result, they come at such a high amount of money for the realisation of that property that it can no longer come from the rent that fits the rent surcharge limit. That's what this is about. I do not know how many hundreds of euros are going to give us direct care homes, and in no way is it going to take a critical look at the foundation costs of the corporation, because the Empire is paying anyway. That is a concern I share with Mrs Leijten. That's not our intention. But let's see how we can change the motion so that we can find each other in it. The fact is that we lack thousands of adapted care homes. This is one of the major problems that make it impossible to adapt or build the care homes. This issue does not come between this government in one way or another, because that is the dogma of: we allocate up to the rental surcharge limit, no matter what it takes to adjust a property.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mrs Leijten, do you have a further question or do you have a new one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u22	No. Mrs Keijzer is, of course, right that this expensive blower for €1,000 per day does not lead to the result we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u23	How are we gonna...? Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u24	But if we...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u25	No, I'm sorry, may I interrupt you for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u26	If we can come out together...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mrs. Leijten, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u28	Yeah, and I'm talking to Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u29	Yeah, but I'm talking to you, and I'm in front of this. We're not going to have a whole debate. You may request an explanation of a motion. A general consultation report on the agenda is not intended for a new debate. You can ask for an explanation of the motion, but not open a debate. I won't let you. Do you have a question about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u30	It was an introductory sentence to my follow-up to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u31	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u32	I don't have a question anymore. Mrs Keijzer says that she would like to come out with us to arrange the house adjustments for people with care needs without leading to extreme rent increases. I'd be happy to accept that invitation. I hope that we can get out and put down a fine motion, because something must be done about this and we do not need expensive drivers for €1,000 a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u33	I completely agree with what Mrs Leijten is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you very much. I call Mr Krol of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. I agree with Mrs Leijten, by the way. I've prepared a motion myself. It's a little more careful, but maybe we can put them together. We'll see about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government has set itself the objective of reducing the misuse of psychopharmaceuticals to zero;]] [[Whereas several actions and improvement plans have already been implemented for this purpose;]] [[whereas no intermediate targets or time planning are indicated, but it is important to keep the finger on the wrist;]] [[calls on the Government to forward annually to the Court a progress report containing as concrete information as possible on the reduction of psychopharmaceuticals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u36	The second motion is also tabled on behalf of Mr Otwin van Dijk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas older people with a care demand are living at home for a longer period of time on their own;]] [[Whereas it is also important from the point of view of prevention to support this group in a broad sense in its safety;]] [[Whereas it is important for individual and collective safety to take account of fire prevention;]] [[calls on the government to engage with the VNG, health insurance companies and elderly organisations to consider how safe home living can be better supported, including attention to fall prevention, fire safety and the need to place smoke detectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nursing home residents receive psychopharmaceuticals unnecessarily and often against their will;]] [[noting that psychopharmaceuticals have a drugging effect and are often used to keep nursing home residents calm because there is insufficient staff;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that psychopharmaceuticals are administered only when properly used and with the consent of the nursing home resident even if this is not established by, for example, dementia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to give an explanation of the motions that have been tabled. In the motion in part No. 203 by Mrs Leijten, on the removal of the announced 500 million cut in long-term care. Within and outside this Chamber there is extensive discussion of the current mandate. I have indicated that I want to see it in conjunction with the additional resources we have allocated to improve the quality of nursing care. I understand very well that we need to look very closely at the coherence between the quality impulse and the mission. I have also indicated that you are aware of my commitment to this point, namely that it is a very intensive subject of discussion in the context of the 2017 budget preparation and the Spring paper. I said here that I would like to talk to the Chamber about it after that decision was taken. For this reason, I consider the motion premature and I would like to discourage it at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr Potters wishes to put a question on an opinion of the Secretary of State on a motion by Mrs Leijten. That's not very common, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u40	I would like the Secretary of State to explain that the 500 million is proposed in the motion without cover. I can imagine that the Secretary of State shares the opinion of the VVD that proposals that are not covered can not be granted anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u41	That's right. That is why I would very much like to talk about this subject in connection with the decision-making in the Spring Paper and the budget, because those are the times when we can provide the necessary cover for any other proposals if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u42	Why does the Secretary of State say at any time that he sniffed out a camera or microphone that he wants to get rid of the austerity, but does he say in the Chamber that he should discourage the motion? Then he must be a guy and when he has a camera or microphone for his sniffing, say: I have no money; I'm going to cut down on the most vulnerable in our country, those who live in an institution where the bottom has already been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u43	What Mrs Leijten and I may have in common is that when we are questioned about our commitment in various debates, which occasionally make known. I think it is very careful to make that bet too. We will therefore have to agree that it will be done through the front door, that any other proposals will have to be adequately covered and that there will have to be a balance between all kinds of other issues. That is why I call for this debate to take place in connection with the decision-making of the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u44	Can the Secretary of State then explain to me why the Secretary of State for Defence says everywhere that more money must go to the Ministry of Defence and more money to do so, and that the Secretary of State must say: I must look for money in all corners and cannot commit anything? What exactly is the difference in the balance of interests for this Secretary of State? If he wants more money to come, or actually that the cut is off the table, it's not about more money, but just about not cutting back. He's just taking care of it, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u45	I suggest that Mrs Leijten might be surprised if we talk about the Spring Paper and the 2017 budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u46	Next motion, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u47	In the motion in part No. 204 we are asked to achieve a target for the unnecessary use of psychopharmaceuticals in inpatient care. A few motions have been tabled on psychopharmaceuticals. I have tried in the debate to point out that, as far as I am concerned, our commitment is similar: I want to reduce the improper use of psychopharmaceutical to zero. We are in very intensive consultation with all experts and care professionals to see how this can be achieved. It is very important to look at the approach and treatment of people with dementia. In doing so, you want to reduce psychopharmaceutical use and replace it with a bit of the wrong term, which is due to other measures that do not require the provision of psychopharmaceuticals. That is very important. There are a number of projects running at that point. The Vilans organisation has told us to be careful with a general standard that is not applicable to situations that are still to take place. That is why we now have some 50 pilots to show you how to reduce the improper use of psychopharmaceuticals. We all agree on that. So, to make a long story short, I feel more in favour of the motion in which we are called upon to ensure that the pilots run smoothly and we know how to reduce improper psychopharmaceutical use. I am very willing to inform the Chamber about this and to keep it informed of progress. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 204.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u48	There's been almost no record of pulling like that about drugging the elderly, but we're here. The policy makers say that we find it undesirable and we want to go to zero. It's so unclear. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to come up with a target or target rate. We can follow Mr Krol's motion with an annual report, but I would like to see whether we are moving forward and whether we are making it. Finally, I would like to say the following. If we do not achieve a target or target and there is a legitimate reason for this, then of course everyone can accept it. But then we know what we're working towards. The Secretary of State says zero again, but not when. Ten years from now? Twenty years from now? In two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u49	I think we are really sharing the policy commitment and the one that we want to go to. I can't stress that enough. I want the improper use of psychopharmaceutical to zero. The professionals indicate that it is necessary to look very carefully at what other measures you could take to achieve this and to get sharper when it is wrong or not. This means that we can see very clearly from the pilots what measures are needed and what progress we can make in this respect. As far as I am concerned, we report on this every year, so that the Chamber can follow with me whether we are indeed moving forward. That's what we want to do with each other. Let us try to assume that the pilots will also provide us with much more information on what is feasible and what is conceivable in the light of the findings of the profession. Then we can discuss that again with each other. I would recommend to the Chamber that the motion be put to the vote. Mr Krol on this point... The aim is clear: the improper use must go to zero. Every year we report with the most concrete data possible on reducing psychopharmaceuticals, so that we can also monitor whether we are getting along.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mrs. Leijten wants to know when.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, Mr President, I cannot comment on that now. In that I really want to learn from the pilots.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u52	How can we see if we're moving forward if we don't agree when it is? In disability care, we didn't want to tie it up anymore. With Ban the band we said: that's going to come out. It worked. However, that was not possible by saying: we are going to investigate that again and we are doing a pilot again. No, it's been said, then it's over. About the solitary cells in the ggz is just said: then it's over. If it doesn't work out for once, everyone will understand. The principle, however, is: then it passes. I just want to know from the Secretary of State when it's zero. Ten years from now? In five years? In two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u53	Your point is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u54	There is a comparison with the Swedish band. What was at the heart of the discussion about this? It was about fixing, even when it wasn't necessary. In the meantime, all kinds of alternatives have been invented, developed and devised by the profession. Once you have and can apply those alternatives, you can say at that point that this is no longer necessary. In psychopharmaceuticals, I'd like to go to the same approach. I think it's possible to reduce the improper use of psychopharmaceutical to zero. That is also my goal and my goal. We need the profession to see what measures you can take to achieve this. At some point we can say to each other that it is no longer necessary, because there are sufficient alternatives that have also been validated by the profession. That's how you could make that shot. Once again, I would therefore like to make the motion in part No. 204 to dissuade. As regards the motion in part No. 206 I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 205. It is true that a similar motion has also been tabled in another debate, with my colleague from Wonen and Rijksdienst. Next week, a response will be sent to the Chamber on the report of the Longer Self-employed Living Team. That letter will also address this issue. That's one reason. The second reason has just been mentioned by Mrs Leijten in the debate. It is very important not to say automatically that voluntary allocation is always appropriate. This indeed has to do with the point rating system. This could lead to us not helping people at all. I understand Mrs Keijzer's commitment, but the motion is not entirely clear on that point. My proposal would therefore be to wait for the letter from the Minister of Housing and National Service next week. At the same time, we can talk about the motion that has been tabled on this occasion. That is why I have come here to discourage the motion in part No. 205.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u55	Having heard the Secretary of State, I'd like to hold the motion. Then we can see if in the letter that comes to the Chamber there is at last a real solution to the shortage of care homes. If it isn't, the motion will resurrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u56	At the request of Mrs Keijzer, I propose her motion (31765, No. 205). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr. Chairman. My position on the motion on item No. 206 I've already pointed out. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr Krol has a question about your opinion on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u59	I want to make it easy for the Chamber. I assume the Secretary of State knows that today it is also possible to adopt a motion so that there is no need to vote on it. I heard the enthusiasm from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u60	Certainly, that is Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows the vote to be taken if other Members do not oppose it. Mr Secretary of State, what is your response to Mr Krol's suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u61	I think I was the one who first set the precedent for taking over a motion. So I wouldn't mind doing that second. So I'd like to take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u62	Are there any Members who oppose this? I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u63	We're not making a habit of it, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 207, in which the government is invited to engage with the VNG, health insurers and elderly organisations to consider how to better support safe living at home, including fire prevention, fire safety and the need to place smoke detectors. I have already indicated in the debate that, together with the Minister for Housing and the National Service, we are engaged in intensive discussions with a number of organisations, including fire organisations, to see how fire safety can be strengthened, especially now that we see that this is more necessary at the time when people stay at home longer and therefore we need to look not only at institutional fire safety but also at fire safety in our own environment. I therefore consider the motion to be a policy support and therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide. The motion in part No. 208 is about the psychopharmaceutical. Because I prefer the motion in part No. 206 I do not recommend this motion in part No. 208.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u64	I hear Mrs. Agema shouting "ho, ho, ho" like Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u65	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The state secretary says he wants to eliminate psychopharmaceuticals and go to zero. And this motion calls for at least start with those people who have not consented to it. The Secretary of State says, "I'm gonna advise against that motion." That's impossible, isn't it? Besides, this is simply the law. The law must be implemented, in the sense that psychopharmaceuticals are stopped from being given to people who have not consented to it. I really expect the Secretary of State to pronounce "judge chamber" on this motion or to take over this motion. Otherwise, the Secretary of State isn't worth a sniff if he says he wants to go to 0% administration of psychopharmaceutical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u66	I disagree with Mrs. Agema. The motion states: psychopharmaceutical is administered only when used properly and with the consent of the nursing home resident, even if this is not established by dementia, for example. That's exactly the point. It may sometimes be necessary to provide psychopharmaceuticals for the benefit of a patient, even if the patient is incompetent. This means that a professional judgement is needed by the nursing home doctor to see in which cases it is and in which cases it is not necessary. You can't say in general: we don't do it at all or we always do. That is precisely what we want to have a very careful policy on. For this reason, I continue to prefer the motion in part No. 206.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mrs Leijten, I say the same thing to you when I said to Mr Potters: it is another's motion and we are not going to have another debate. So if you have a question about the Secretary of State's opinion on the scary motion, then I will allow it, but only then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u68	How does this advice not to take over the motion relate to the law of concern and compulsion in the First Chamber, which states: coercive measures may not, unless. That's kind of crazy. I don't think this is at all in line with that Law of care and coercion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u69	To my liking it is, because the Law regulates care and coercion that also applies in cases of willlessness: you don't do it, unless. In addition, very careful procedures have been devised for this 'unless'. That is the essence of that law, and that is why we have made it. So you cannot say in general that there must always be agreement, even if there is willlessness. I can't do that. We have legal safeguards for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-5.u71	I propose that we vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
