ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science at the beginning of the afternoon. We need the third term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u2	Madam President. This is the third time that we have discussed this issue with the Secretary of State for Media. We are adding yet another chapter to the soap opera we gave here last week. It's too bad it has to be like this. The CDA Group does not need any long input today. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitments he has put on paper. It has become a huge list of commitments and explanations of how things should be seen. This underlines the need for an additional law. The Secretary of State deliberately does not refer to it as a repair law, because in his view it may not do justice to the present law, but I am still referring to a repair law. Much is being repaired, also for good, so I say in all sincerity. This is without prejudice to the question of whether the CDA Group is satisfied with the outcome of what has been promised. I say yes and no. In a number of areas, we are truly satisfied with the commitments, but this is certainly not the case in other areas. We're not alone in that. A large number of broadcasters, ranging from KRO-NCRV, AVROTROS and MAX to NOS, have also commented on the letter of commitments to the Chamber in recent days. In particular, the direction of the NPO remains difficult for many, and also for the CDA Group, and may also be contrary to the Constitution. One of the most difficult points is that the scope of the concept of steering is not further developed in the letter sent by the Secretary of State to the Chamber. I am not going to go into that at the moment, because the subject will undoubtedly come back to this house in the near future. What I do want to say about this is that the NPO must now also register, display and thus measure the public involvement. I don't know exactly what the Secretary of State has in mind, but measuring public involvement from the perspective of the NPO, how do you do that? Do you have to have 20 people follow Twitter later, so that they can check what happens on Twitter while a program is being broadcast? Or are you gonna set up a panel? You're gonna recruit members? It is clear that the CDA Group has said once again: let the programmes and the productions be broadcast by the regular broadcasters. That is in principle the intention. If you do that, you know that it is generally done by broadcasters representing half a million members. What do you mean, additional public involvement? Moreover, the question raised by the Secretary of State should not be addressed by other groups in this House. We have a strong basis in the broadcasting system. Let's make the most of that. I would also like to remind the Secretary of State of the possible conflict with elements in the concession policy plan, which already anticipates in part what is to be said in the new Media Act. Perhaps he can respond to that in his term. Then I'll be on the regional broadcasters. In fact, we have only one appeal to the Secretary of State: come quickly with your new bill announced. You said it's coming for the summer. It cannot be done quickly enough, because you can still make a number of floors with regard to the content of how we look at the regional system and its securing. It has to be said: last week the Secretary of State did not respond to the remark I made that among others the drivers of Omroep Drenthe and Omroep Zeeland have more or less turned away from the ROOS plans. Now we see that, in addition to that movement, steps are being taken from a number of other provinces to achieve a status similar to that which the Secretary of State promised last week in response to a motion for a resolution for Omroep Fryslân, namely a kind of status separate with more influence in a number of areas. Last week I said it was a pity that no commitment was made regarding the financing and additional financing of that status separately. The province, which in my view has not yet concluded an administrative agreement with the State Secretary, would very much like to see such an agreement, because of the specific position of the second state language. Now, however, there is also a question to be asked from other provinces, or that question will come this week. I am curious to see how the Secretary of State deals with this, especially since other provinces relate to the fact that local languages are spoken there, which must also be included in the recognised minority languages in the European sense. I therefore put that question to the Secretary of State, through you, President. Of course, we welcome the financial commitment which, I understand, was formalised yesterday. Then the broadcasters will be able to make the austerity steps later than foreseen, due to the delay in the legislation. I would like to say something not so much about the content, but about the procedure. Last week, we had serious doubts about the procedure. What is threatening us now is to adopt a law that will never come into force, at least for the most part not. Suppose the law is passed next week, then this law actually goes straight to the gross dirt, as far as national public service broadcasting is concerned. We find that extremely strange. The Secretary of State has said: I come up with additional legislation, do not worry you, senators, because I guarantee you that if you accept the law, large parts of that law will never enter into force, and I guarantee you that there will be a new law, an additional law, in which you will get what I have promised you. From a state-law point of view, too, it seems extremely risky to use this wording here. I say that again, because this Secretary of State cannot give any guarantee that a new law will come unharmed by the House of Representatives and then end up here. In fact, we don't even know if such a law passes through the House of Representatives. That's all still in the big glass ball of the future. Moreover, the Secretary of State has said that he guarantees that the law will not enter into force, even if he is no longer there unexpectedly, at least politically. You never know in these times. The CDA Group would like to know what the Secretary of State bases it on. If, for whatever reason, there were any other than this Secretary of State concerned with this portfolio, this group would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he would be able to guarantee this House on the basis of an passed law. This seems to us to be extremely difficult, politically neither legally consistent nor sustainable. In short, questions enough. I won't repeat them all. I said last week that it would be wise to ask the Council of State for a ruling as well. We have seen a quick scan of Professor Elzinga. He also makes critical comments on what is on the table, and others have already expressed their opinion. Uncertainty trump card. In that sense, it is regrettable that there is apparently already a majority in this Chamber that is going to say yes to the law. This is not because of the law, but despite the law and, above all, thanks to the Secretary of State, who has done everything possible to get a majority. It seems to the CDA Group that it would be wise not to adopt the law next week. We urge the Secretary of State to uphold the law. This law then offers the possibility, also to the State Secretary himself and to the House of Representatives, to do the new homework in peace and to look at the follow-up law that has been announced. At the same time, regional broadcasting could take on board what has been announced by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u3	That was a very long sentence. I would like to ask Mr Atsma a question. He said so clearly at the beginning of his speech that the CDA Group is looking at this law with a full yes and a full no. Now he does say no, but if I have listened to him correctly, he actually says: with the amendments that the Secretary of State has now made, we are in fact in agreement, and we can actually agree with that. We have a number of questions, but it is the procedure that we do not like in particular. Can I sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u4	No, you didn't listen properly. Are the commitments good? I said yes and no. I have dealt with a number of aspects of that no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u5	I didn't hear those aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u6	I've been talking about steering. Maybe you missed that. I have said what a number of broadcasters have also said to us in recent days about steering, that the general policy frameworks for steering from the NPO are not defined. The Secretary of State did say something about the programme, but not about the wider framework. I have indicated that there is a concession policy plan, in which there are already points that may not or may not be partially acceptable with what is covered by the law in force. I have said this about the Secretary of State's proposal to place public responsibility at the NPO and how public responsibility and accountability should then be shaped. I have serious doubts about that. If Mr Schnabel is listening carefully, I have also indicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u7	I have heard these questions very well, but my point was for a moment that they were questions and observations. I thought that was interesting. I was wondering how full that yes and no actually was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u8	You can have a few more if you wish, but given the limited speaking time, I would particularly like to talk about the procedure. I do not think that this procedure is proper under state law. You should also take that to heart. The messy way of doing things, the gossiping that is now being done, the way in which the Chamber threatens to adopt a law that will not then enter into force; this Senate should not want it to. We're not here to pass laws like that. Anyway, the vote will show that next week. I have announced that the CDA Group would like the Secretary of State to keep the bill, so that he can make further preparations in peace for the follow-up law, the repair law, but also for the regional broadcasters to take the follow-up steps he thinks he should take. To underline that, I will table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Atsma, Mr De Vries-Leggedoor, Mr Nagel, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen and Mr Gerkens proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the examination of the proposal to amend the Media Act has led to commitments to the Upper Chamber;]] [[that the Secretary of State has announced that an additional legislative proposal will be presented in the short term;]] [[that the elements concerning national public service broadcasting will not enter into force until the additional legislative proposal has been accepted by the Chamber;]] [[that the Secretary of State will shortly submit a legislative proposal on regional broadcasters to the First and Second Chambers;]] [[proposes:]] [[maintain the current proposal to amend the Media Act;]] [[call on the Secretary of State to submit the supplementary legislative proposal in the short term;]] [[call on the Secretary of State to submit the draft law for regional broadcasters before the summer recess;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34264-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u9	I said what I wanted to say on behalf of the CDA Group. In particular, let efficiency, legality and care be at the heart of the outcome of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. It is the third term of the treatment of the Media Act. Of course, I could say again that public service broadcasting is a left-wing, elitist party, but I do not. Not that the PVV has changed its mind in this respect, but in the second period it was not so much about the content anymore and now in the third period it was no longer at all. The way things are going is extremely remarkable. Like Professor Elzinga and Dr. Mr De Vries, in their opinion commissioned by Mr Nagel, referred to a 'already special change course'. The Secretary of State wants the current bill simply to be accepted by this Chamber. The commitments made will be worked out in a future legislative proposal. To accept that future legislative proposal, only those elements relating to public service broadcasting will enter into force. In other words, the majority of the law will not enter into force for the time being. Professor Elzinga and Dr. De Vries call this practice at least a matter of urgency. They also claim that the limits of Dutch state law are stretched. That's a big deal. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? Besides, is the aforementioned future bill going to come? Has the Secretary of State not simply put on too big a pair of pants with his promises, given the possibility that the future bill in the Second or First Chamber is simply stranded? I'd like to get a response. What are promises made by a Secretary of State of a cabinet that could fall apart at any time, a cabinet that is virtually maintained by the EU Presidency? Like Professor Elzinga and Dr. De Vries state that his possible successors to the Secretary of State are in no way bound by state law to the commitments made. They also write that, if it agrees to the bill, the Chamber is at the mercy of the "probably well-meaning commitment" of the Secretary of State. How does he react to this? The First Chamber is always the last move. This is where legislative proposals are accepted or rejected. In doing so, the Chamber shall rule on its own merits. Right of amendment? We don't. A novelle? Could be, but the Secretary of State doesn't want that. The Secretary of State does want the law just to be jacked by the First Chamber. The commitments made sometimes pass through another legislative proposal. Really, that's how the Secretary of State assures us. The possibility that the bill will end in the Second or First Chamber is not an obstacle for the Secretary of State. Also the possibility that the cabinet might fall in the meantime does not affect the Secretary of State. It seems that the Secretary of State is above the legislative process and overlooks the Cabinets. I repeat, the Chamber is always the last move. The vote will be taken in favour or against. There are no other flavors. Then, of course, it is necessary to know what exactly you are voting for or against and to know the precise consequences of whether or not to accept a law. The fact that the Chamber, with the adoption of this bill, loses any direction and control of the commitments made, is in stark contrast. It would therefore be best if Mr Atsma had already referred to it to hold the votes here and to wait until we have a novelle, a separate repair law or a completely new law so that the Chamber holds the lead, a stick behind the door. That is more sensible than being handed over to the "probably well-meaning commitment" of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. This third deadline is more than justified by three new data: the letter from the Secretary of State Dekker dated 4 March. with the package of commitments he made during the examination in the First Chamber, the letter from the thirteen editorial councils and works councils of the thirteen regional broadcasters and the opinion of two independent state lawyers, Professor Elzinga and Mr. De Vries, about the First Chamber and the handling of the Media Act. I would like to start with the reactions from the provinces, because the Secretary of State has consistently argued that it is the interests of the employees of the regional broadcasters and that there is a need for urgency so that uncertainty for them no longer exists. The thirteen editorial and works councils continue to be deeply concerned about the way in which the Secretary of State tries to steer the legislation through the Upper Chamber even after the second term, they write. Their concerns about the quality of regional journalism and the content of the media have increased rather than decreased. On the other hand, the Secretary of State insists that the cuts will hardly have any impact on journalistic quality. He has no broadcasting experience; otherwise he would have known how the cuts work in practice. Loss of 200 jobs under 12 million cuts: how can one think that this does not affect journalistic work? The remaining 5 million will also have to be reported to the editors. Never before have broadcasting workers been as badly hit as under this Secretary of State. He says to stand up for the broadcasting staff, but in practice he doesn't care about the people in the workplace. The letter of the thirteen editorial and works councils is supported by the Brabant deputy Henri Swinkels, who points out that there is no financial need to speed up the introduction of part of the law and who calls on the Senate to hold the vote. The agreement with ROOS confirms this. Moreover, it is a matter of delay and not of delay, so the regional broadcasters remain threatened. A few comments on the appointments previously made. Is it correct, as we would like to know from the Secretary of State, that Omroep MAX has called on the Public Administration Act to obtain the necessary information about previous appointments? Can the Secretary of State undertake that, unless there is any data at stake concerning privacy, such as names, this information will be given in full and that the pot of black paint will not come out of his desk drawer? When we read the last letter from the Secretary of State, we could hardly believe our eyes. I'm sure a bill with so many commitments hasn't been dealt with in this house before. However, what are these commitments worth? The Secretary of State admits that the large part of the law that is not about regional broadcasters does not enter into force until the promised amendments, which still have to be dealt with through the Council of State and the House of Representatives, have been dealt with here. On 1 March, the Secretary of State argued that if he could not handle these matters himself, for example by leaving the cabinet prematurely, his possible successors must keep his promises. That just doesn't turn out to be true. Mr Dekker's possible successors are in no way bound by state law to the commitments he has made, as the report by the experts Elzinga and de Vries shows. For those who are happy with a dead sparrow, I would point out that the report states: "If the First Chamber now agrees to the bill as it stands, then it has lost any direction on the course of the procedure proposed by the Secretary of State. She is at the mercy of the State Secretary's probably well-meant commitment and the possible goodwill of the House of Representatives." I would add the question as to what all these commitments are worth if, after possible interim elections, the composition of the House of Representatives has changed dramatically. A strong opponent of this law as the PVV can grow. In all likelihood the VVD will be reduced and the PvdA even more. Those are the parties that have guaranteed this law in the past. The Lower House has the right of amendment, even on proposals dictated by a majority of the Upper House. It can happen all the time, and that is why this bill cannot be adopted, especially since it is absolutely unnecessary. What we're going through now doesn't match parliamentary history. At every threat and demand, the State Secretary nodded before the questions were completed. Meetings had already taken place outside Parliament and parties who always advocate transparency had already concluded their secret agreements with the Secretary of State. It was visible: the Secretary of State was eager to nod and it seemed as if he was calling the speakers to a greater urgency. It was as Elzinga and de Vries described: "Many groups show an open eye and ear for the proposals and commitments made by the Secretary of State. (...) State law does not oppose this. But not all the solutions currently on the table are obvious from this point of view and are acceptable under state law." It is noted that the Secretary of State will have to return to the Cabinet, Council of State and the House of Representatives. When it comes to limited changes, it is customary to work with a novelle, in fact a disguised right of amendment. In this case, however, it is a significant amendment to the bill which is not in line with the accepted use of the novelle. The bill is amended in many parts and the largest parts of it do not enter into force. The room of reflection has completely lost its way. The independent state lawyers therefore conclude on page 7 of their opinion that in this case the novelle with a disguised right of amendment develops into an effective amending instrument in the hands of the First Chamber, which is contrary to the Constitution. That is a not insignificant statement and for 50PLUS reason to urge the Secretary of State to consult the Council of State as a matter of urgency. This is an extremely important matter which cannot be handled with sufficient care. Such an opinion can be delivered urgently if necessary and it is too important not to have this controversial case reviewed. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask the Council of State to give an opinion on this before next week's votes? What is agreed here does not seem to leave parts of the House of Representatives untouched. In view of the very many and profound changes that have been made, not only has the Secretary of State done shit. The House of Representatives has also failed massively. She's got nothing to do with what the First Chamber has dictated. In fact, the roles of the Second and First Chambers are reversed and the Second Chamber is held hostage. The state law scholars believe that the foundation of the Dutch two-chamber system is being violated. We would not be surprised if the initiator of setting up a State Committee on Institutional Affairs, the VVD, started the next election with the slogan 'we cannot make it crazier'. It is concluded that the First Chamber is now involved in the political movement between the Cabinet and the Second Chamber, a position which the First Chamber should not hold to itself. After sending out the package of commitments, the state lawyers informed us that we have taken the letter from the Secretary of State, which confirms us in the view that it is not possible to do so. If we set out what has already happened, what is at risk of happening and how easy it can be to do otherwise, 50PLUS wants to make a proposal. First, however, I would like to make a comment on the appointments. The Secretary of State has interfered far too much and now thinks that things have to be different. Why does he find out about this so late? A lot of improvements are being promised. First, however, a bill which is not good in many respects must be adopted, although it is not going to be implemented, with all the risks involved. Contrary to what the Secretary of State said on 1 March, it is clear that his successors are not bound by this. That is why we are asking him to give us a very clear answer to the question whether he fully admits that he has made a mistake, that he does not really have control of what the House of Representatives is going to decide and that this is even less the case if it changed this House of Representatives drastically in an early election. The first parliamentary groups that count on the Secretary of State and his commitments take great and irresponsible risks. It is really crazy that a bill is going to be passed quite unnecessarily which is not good or is not going to be implemented. There's no one to explain that to, is there? A reasonable alternative is obvious. It is possible that we would have preferred to keep the entire bill, after which the Secretary of State urgently submits an amended bill which, through the Council of State and House of Representatives, arrives rapidly at the First Chamber. We have co-signed the motion on this subject. In that case, the procedure described and, in our view, unacceptable need not be followed further. 50PLUS sees no reason why this should not be possible. We would like to know from the Secretary of State whether he does not consider this reasonable alternative to the very controversial and incorrect procedures he has so far arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are debating today in the third term aims to make the public broadcasting system future-proof. The proposed measures should lead to stronger choices, stronger creative competition and greater jointness in the performance of the public task. It was able to count on a large majority across the street and the support of the NPO and the College of Broadcasting. But then the sentiments started to shuffle. At the expert meeting on 4 December, we heard many critical noises. Some parts of the bill proved to be open to multiple legal readings. The scope of motions "from the other side" was not clear. The added value of the detailed examination of the present legislative proposal in our Chamber lies mainly in a further tightening up of its reading. Our Chamber has taken an appropriate political role in this. We have expressed concerns about too much political influence on the public media service. This led the Secretary of State to undertake to remove the role of the Minister for the Management Board of the NPO, to minimise the role of the Supervisory Board of the NPO, to carry out a serious review of the transparency and independence of appointments in the public media sector and to support public engagement. Furthermore, our Chamber has called for clarification of the frameworks of the guiding functions and powers of NPO and how they relate to the responsibility for the form and content of media offerings that broadcasters have and hold. Unclearness has led to a great deal of unrest. The recent letter from the NPO and a majority of broadcasters provide clarity and the Secretary of State has indicated that they share and embrace the methodology set out in the above letter. On one point, I would like to receive a further explanation from the Secretary of State, which concerns the status of agreements with broadcasters. We would like to ask him to clarify what he has in mind here. In addition, I have asked questions on behalf of my group about the legal interpretation of a number of articles in the Media Act. We specifically discussed Article 2.6 on the membership of the Supervisory Board of the NPO, Article 2.15 on the provision of information, Article 2.172 on the establishment of the annual accounts and Article 2.178 on the organisation of business processes. Legal clarity with the help of independent experts on these issues has been promised by the Secretary of State. My group intends to vote in favour of some of the motions tabled during the plenary debate. The Ten Hoeve c.s. motion. (with the letter K) about the extra guarantee of the position and interests of the Omrop Fryslân within the Regional Public Call we have co-signed and can count on our support because of the special position of Frisian as second state language. Also the motion-bikker c.s. (with the letter M) on the inclusion of budget and space in the performance agreement between the government and the NPO for philosophical programming, we have co-signed and can count on our support for the importance of philosophical programming for the pluralism of public broadcasting. The amended motion-Atsma c.s. (with the letter N) on legal safeguards for the production and transmission of programmes by broadcasters, we consider that unnecessary and therefore we will not support them. Also the Teunissen c.s motion. (with the letter L) on the position of regional broadcasters in the absence of the RPO cannot count on our support. On the contrary, we call on the government to do everything in its power to support the regional broadcasters by allowing the RPO to continue. Finally, I come to the Secretary of State's proposal that only those parts relating to regional public service broadcasting should enter into force. Such proposals have reached our Chamber before. Think of the legislative proposals Changes in the electoral process (33268) and Implementation of revised telecommunications directives (32549). Each time parts of the bill have not entered into force in order to repair this part in a new bill. Reinforced by these precedents, we support the Secretary of State's proposal so that the RPO can make the necessary preparations. We look forward to the legislative proposal with the additions and clarifications I have outlined earlier. Above all, however, my group is looking forward to the NPO, broadcasters, producers and programmers working on the legislative proposal before us to make public media services future-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. Of course, the treatment of this bill does not really deserve the beauty prize. In the meantime, too much has changed. But last week there were clear agreements. I have to say that in the letter that the Secretary of State wrote afterwards, the agreements made have been expressed in a perfectly acceptable manner. In that sense, I am satisfied. I agree with the Secretary of State's intentions, although I must point out that only the element of this new body which is responsible for public involvement gives the impression that it is not incredibly bureaucratic. I'm not too happy about that. It is difficult, to use that word, that at this very last stage there are apparently many changes of opinion on that part of the bill that will have to come into force first, namely on the RPO. The amazing thing about this is that comments that are now coming apart from different sides seem to be completely contrary to what has been reported earlier in this direction, namely that it was appreciated that the legislative proposal would be adopted as soon as possible. In itself, I can fully understand the comments made by the regional broadcasters. Last time we spoke explicitly about the cuts that should be pushed forward. The Secretary of State finally opted for a six-month period, on which I am not dissatisfied. We also noted last time that the cuts may prove to be too large, so that they will do too much damage to the content of the regional broadcasters. As soon as that becomes clear, we should try to go after it. That was changed last time with the Secretary of State. There are regional broadcasters who are now asking very strongly for independence. I must say that I would have preferred to remain independent of regional broadcasters. I have noted that there is no majority for this either in the Lower House or in the Upper House. Then we have to find another way to settle the matter as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u14	Do you think about time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u15	I'm almost done. For Friesland, therefore, an exception will be made. That exception is now, as it were, also claimed by a few other regional broadcasters. I sympathise with the other recognized regional languages in the Netherlands, the languages recognised as a minority language in the European context. However, I have to say that there is a fundamental difference between the Frisian broadcasting system and the other regional broadcasters, in the sense that in all regional broadcasters, the Dutch language of use is structural. Except for Frisian broadcasting: there the Frisian language is consistently the use language. This means that Frisian broadcasting is not only regional broadcasting, but also explicitly the broadcasting of the national minority Frisian. That is a fundamentally different situation. That's why I tend...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u16	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u17	... in order to stop working on the procedure at the moment: next week, as far as I am concerned, the legislative proposal can be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. Today we are experiencing a special third period of debate on the Media Act, which has largely taken place outside the public domain. After the suspension of the discussions after the first term, a back-room policy circus has taken place, in which the favors of the majority needed in this house have been achieved through wheels and deals with mirrors and beads. That's not how laws are supposed to be made. What is ahead is a Media Act which, according to the State Secretary's commitments, will only enter into force in part, i.e. only for regional broadcasters, with the rest suspended until most of the law is repaired, even before the summer recess. It is completely incomprehensible to the Animal Party why the Secretary of State does not just take back a law that apparently needs such far-reaching repairs to the House of Representatives to come back with a new bill before the summer. That would be the royal road, which seems impossible for a number of reasons. Can the Secretary of State now explain why this road is not seen as passable to him, why the debate has not been able to take place openly and why he is not offering himself and the bill a fair re-launch with a debate that takes place entirely in the open of the Second and First Chambers? In first and second terms, the Animal Party has argued that the new Media Act is a risky austerity operation, as a breakdown of a functioning system and as an erosion of independent national and regional journalism. Those objections are not minor. In the course of the debate, our concerns have been confirmed rather than reassured. As far as my group is concerned, there will be no less, but more room for public service broadcasters, there will be no prior scrutiny of programme formats and there will certainly not be any regional cuts, especially now that decentralisation of work and income, care and other areas are being carried out and that regional review is urgently needed. In the second term, it has been pointed out by various groups that more tasks for local authorities also means that information should be provided to citizens. That's what I'm underlining again. It is therefore all the more important that the development of the role of regional broadcasters should come to the Chambers first and that there should be a vision on the table, and not just cuts which put pressure on regional news and control of the parliament. There is already a huge blow in the field of coverage of provincial and local politics. That doesn't seem to be getting any better with the plans in the current Media Act. In his letter of 4 March. The Secretary of State, with his far-reaching commitments, always anticipates the legislation. If this Chamber were to agree to this bill, only those parts relating to regional broadcasters would enter into force. All aspects of national public service broadcasting will not enter into force until the additional legislative proposal has been accepted. So it's promised to put three-quarters of the Media Act in the waiting room. That's not the way the First Chamber should pass laws on parole. We know a "yes", a "no" and a novelle. We do not have a disguised amendment to a form that no longer resembles what the House of Representatives has adopted. We are dealing with a law which, after a vote, is amended to a significant extent by means of an additional legislative proposal. Vote on the new Media Act is therefore a very problematic process, creating an undesirable precedent. According to state law scholars Elzinga and De Vries, "it is particularly remarkable that the proposal is being requested to be approved now, while repair legislation should ultimately lead to a completely different proposal." These lawyers argue that handling through the supplementary legislative proposal would be inappropriate. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Followers of the Secretary of State are in no way bound by state law to the commitments made here and now, according to the lawyers. The additional changes envisaged may also take more time than planned or the changes may look different than expected. The First Chamber is now being asked to accept a law which raises considerable objections in the present form. My group strongly opposes this. A better alternative, the royal road, would be to vote only when the supplementary legislative proposal has been decided. No less than thirteen regional broadcasters are seriously concerned about their journalistic power, about the pace in which this bill is being passed through this house, about the uncertainty about the support for total friction costs and about the final level of the austerity in 2017, can be seen in their letter of 6 March. The guarantees for the journalistic independence of regional broadcasters still need to be regulated by law. It should also include agreements on maintaining editorial independence and regional identity. The Secretary of State believes that this second phase of the Media Act can be submitted to the Lower House before the summer recess and later this year to the Upper Chamber. In view of the delay in dealing with the first stage of the law, my group is not confident that the second stage will be dealt with soon. It would be unwise for the Chamber to agree to a law that would lead to irreversible steps for regional broadcasters, whereas journalistic independence would not be guaranteed. We cannot afford to let the regional broadcasters drop between shore and ship. I am not referring to money, but above all to guaranteeing the quality of essential news and journalistic control of power. According to Deputy Henri Swinkels, this is the wrong order: first cut and centralize, and then a plan. I propose that the Secretary of State brings forward a detailed vision and that it be put to the vote together with the supplementary bill and the legislative proposal before us. The agreement between the Secretary of State and ROOS is that the cuts will be postponed for six months to set up the RPO. With that agreement, there would no longer be any financial reason to speed up the implementation of the law for the part of the RPO. Can the Secretary of State respond to this consultation and confirm that this is no longer a matter of urgency, both for the RPO and the NPO, to adopt the bill now with steam and boiling water? Why not handle the law properly under state law and wait until the supplementary proposals have been dealt with by both chambers? In this way, we will prevent the establishment of an RPO from establishing irreversible issues that will need to be reviewed on substantive grounds. In the spirit of the motion I tabled on behalf of the Animal Party, I would like to clarify the impact of the cuts on regional editorial staff. According to these broadcasters, more than 200 jobs have to be removed and the cuts are directly at the expense of their journalistic function. How can the Secretary of State maintain that austerity is not at the expense of regional journalistic power? Mr Nagel also asked that question. I'd like to get a reaction to it. The question that was raised in the second term, namely what does the Secretary of State do with the message that many broadcasters do not recognize in Mr De Vries's statement that budget cuts will not be at the expense of programmes, has become even more pragmatous now that the broadcasters have once again expressed their concerns. How does the Secretary of State deal with the concerns of these broadcasters and with the concerns of the national broadcasters who have raised their objections? It would be very wrong for regional broadcasters and national public service broadcasters to be sacrificed by the blind drive for austerity, which may be the flag in particular to cover a disgust with public affairs. My group maintains the view that it is irresponsible to adopt a law that regulates the demolition of existing public service broadcasting, but remains vague about the construction of new ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. The VVD has read the letter from the Secretary of State who reached us on Friday and thankes the Secretary of State very much for this letter. The VVD can agree. The VVD can also agree to the announced repair law. We have a number of arguments for this. We see the repair law as a clarification of the Media Act as it now stands. We also see the urgency of the entry into force of the Media Act, particularly where it is seen at the RPO. After all, the Supervisory Board needs a legal basis for its establishment. Furthermore, the VVD considers that the constitutional debate that has arisen about the de facto or de facto right of amendment of the First Chamber can be passed on to the State Committee, which will also consider a lot of other things. I'm getting to the motions. The VVD has the motion-bikker c.s. On letter M, which is about philosophy, cosigned. We therefore see philosophy as all the current trends, not only Christianity, but also humanism, Buddhism. In short, we explain "life view." We strongly support the pluralism needed for this in public service broadcasting. That's why we support the motion. We will also have the motion-Ten Hoeve c.s. Supporting letter K, which is about Omrop Fryslân. In doing so, we take the Frisian as the second state language as the starting point, as enshrined in the Constitution. We see regional languages differently. Of course, we think it is a justified discussion that everyone would like to put their regional language in the same form in accordance with the same principles. However, the VVD chooses to support the Frisian language as a second state language, enshrined in the Constitution. That is why we support this motion. The Atsma motion on letter N, which was tabled on the previous occasion, is superfluous. The Atsma motion on letter Q that is now filed, we are going to study. The movement-Teunissen c.s. We do not support letter L either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u20	How does Mrs Krikke feel about the way things are going in this Chamber? I understand that she is from the same party as the Secretary of State and that she is okay with everything, but doesn't she have a single word of criticism about this whole procedure, this whole thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u21	I'm glad you noticed that I'm from the same political party as the Secretary of State. I'm proud of that, too; thank you very much. I have said about the procedure, and I would like to remind you that we can imagine that the state-law arguments that have been put on the table will be passed on to the State Commission so that they can be included in its report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u22	Of course, that's all nice and nice, but it looks like we're going to have to vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u23	I look forward to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u24	I believe that this Chamber has the original task of assessing the technical aspects of legislative proposals and checking whether a law is proper. I don't think this whole thing is right. How can Mrs Krikke agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u25	I said that the VVD can agree to a repair law, because we see it as a clarification of the Media Act as it now stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. The members of the SGP Group took note of the letter of commitment from the State Secretary. The commitments on governance and procedures in the case of appointments are a clear improvement, as are the framework for the role of the NPO versus the broadcasting associations. It would have been better if these improvements had already been made in the House of Representatives. On the other hand, you could reason that the First Chamber is not there for nothing. In any case, the proposed amendments will solve important problems. I note that the Secretary of State is choosing the route of an additional bill to ensure that the RPO can get started. In fact, it will then be phased in. This procedure does not receive a beauty prize from the SGP Group, but the considerations made by the Secretary of State can be followed by my group. In addition, I have one more question. The Secretary of State writes: "If there are circumstances in which the supplementary bill is not adopted, for example because the Lower House or the First Chamber does not accept the supplementary bill, the provisions on national public service broadcasting will not enter into force." That is part of the commitment, but I would like to know how the Secretary of State ensures proper attachment in that scenario. Finally, I come to two important parts of the SGP. First of all, I note that the Bikker motion c.s. on letter M on philosophy is welcomed by the Secretary of State. If I see it, she'll get support. Second, an important theme for the SGP...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u27	I should like to begin by giving the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u28	I hear you say: what will the Secretary of State do if the change of law is not expected to pass through the House of Representatives? I also hear you say that the Secretary of State has convinced me that it is necessary to regulate legislation in this way now, even if it does not deserve a beauty prize. Can you indicate what is the most pressing point that makes you say: we should allow this gossip to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u29	I leave the term 'broddel work' to Mrs Gerkens, but I think the most salient point is that the Secretary of State has convinced my group that it is important for the RPO to be clear in the short term, especially for the people working there, but also to get funding, i.e. austerity, in good time and in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u30	But the RPO, which is not there yet, is then set up on the basis of commitments, i.e. without a legal basis, with the risk that there will be no basis for the RPO or the public broadcasters if this law does not pass through the Lower House, as Mr Schalken says. On uncertainty for people, we have had a letter from the co-determination council and the or: they consider this to offer more uncertainty. I would therefore like to ask Mr Schalken once again what is so important about this law that we have to coat it through the Upper Chamber in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u31	I would like to thank Mrs Gerkens for this question, because then I can make it quite clear that I have not indicated that this law is likely to fail. The Secretary of State writes in his letter about circumstances that might prevent the additional legislative proposal from being adopted. I have just asked the Secretary of State how he thinks he can and should close the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u32	With Mr Schalken's confidence, I ask him: why not wait for two months and put everything to the vote at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u33	Thank you. My name is not Schalken, but Schalken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u34	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u35	And to return to your question, why not wait two months? I have indeed indicated that I did not give the way it is done a beauty prize, but that I weighed the arguments put forward. On that basis, we can agree to this. However, as far as I am concerned, until probably next week, the Secretary of State will have the opportunity and the time to hear this Chamber decide to keep the bill, should he see any room to do so in the next week. For the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, it absolutely should not go along this route. No, we don't think it deserves a beauty prize, but give the Secretary of State the advantage of this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u36	Mr Schalk talked about the law not getting a beauty prize. That's clear language. He then asked the Secretary of State to enforce the law, perhaps after ample consideration. But what does Mr Schalk think? If he as a senator says it doesn't deserve a beauty prize and there's no man overboard if the law isn't passed now, wouldn't he be in favour of keeping him for a little longer? I can think of a lot of arguments for that. Mr Schalk is actually offering them himself. I have a second question. The Secretary of State calls it different, but Mrs Krikke spoke of "the repair law," which "clears out." Does Mr Schalk agree? As I understand it, he believes that a number of important changes have been made. That's something other than a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u37	Firstly, I did not say that the law does not deserve a beauty prize, but the procedure. The law had no beauty prize in it. I have also just said that I am very sorry that the House of Representatives has not made the improvements that we have apparently had to make here. Now they're here. As far as I'm concerned, the procedure doesn't get a beauty prize. If I were Secretary of State, I would look incredibly closely in the next week at the possibilities I see to decide to hold up the bill. But I have weighed the arguments he has put forward so far to put this law to the vote in this way. I have already given my answer to that. The other question was if I think it's a repair law. I understand it's a supplementary bill. I can also imagine that the term "repair legislation" is mentioned. Those are the words of Mrs Krikke. I myself use the words given by the Secretary of State in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u38	I'd like to go back. The SGP has "convenient and weighted" and could vote in favour of this bill. Those are all nice words. But now let's go off the record. Be honest: what gift has the SGP received from the Secretary of State in exchange for support to this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u39	At least I'm not talking off the record here. I'm just speaking in the room of this room. I would like everyone to hear what gift I received: none. However, I have received a commitment. But that can't be a surprise for Mr Kops. That commitment has been made since the very beginning of this debate. So I have tried to be as consistent as possible; that is what we can expect from the SGP Group. Read the Acts: I have already indicated in the first debate that we are having problems with a number of things. Those were the things that are being repaired, let me put it this way. However, I have also added another topic. In the different deadlines, I have said it every time: I realized very well that it was a substantive and a moral point, but it does weigh on the SGP. I don't know if that's a present you're allowed to receive. However, I think it is simply a commitment. That's all I can make of it. That commitment was the second point I was about to mention, and it was an important issue for the SGP. It concerned the consistent implementation of the Watchpoint on advertising. And that had to be done on a platform-independent basis, so on radio, television and the Internet. The Secretary of State made clear commitments on this point. So the first point was the motion Bikker c.s. about the philosophy of life and the second point the Viewing Point. These points both have a substantive and moral value and weigh heavily on the SGP group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u40	What will Mr Schalk do if the House of Representatives says no to the commitment made by the Secretary of State here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u41	I've only recently joined this Chamber. So I have not yet been able to oversee all the ins and outs of commitments. However, I have the impression that it was not a motion which I tabled and which has the support of this House. The Secretary of State has simply promised that he will do with the Watcheshow as I have asked. In my opinion, he does not have to submit that question about the Viewer at all to the House of Representatives. It is not part of the supplementary legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u42	Mrs Gerkens, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u43	I am asking because I heard from WNL last Monday that Mr Verhoeven, from D66 across the street, said that he is not going to approve this law as long as this proposal continues. So I think it is relevant to ask this question again: what is Mr Schalk going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u44	I think I've already given the answer. In my view, Mr Verhoeven does not have to agree at all with the Viewing Point section, because it will not be part of the supplementary legislation. If it is, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. But I think he just made a commitment. He will conclave with the Star and the NICAM and so on to ensure that the Viewing Pointer, as it now applies to all programs, will also be applied to the advertising messages. I can tell by Mrs Gerkens' body language that she still has a question about it, but I will answer it separately later. And, of course, I may not be tempted, but I can't imagine that someone from D66 in the Lower House can change anything to a commitment that is not laid down in legislation and is actually just an act that the State Secretary in the Upper Chamber has done. Anyway, I was just finishing up. All in all, it seems that the SGP can support this bill in conjunction with the additional legislation. The process will, of course, be closely monitored. I wish the Secretary of State above all perseverance to do what he has yet to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his clear letter. In substance, my group has two short questions. With regard to the legal framework for the steering role of the NPO, I noticed that there was a small new element in the letter in relation to what the State Secretary argued in the second term. He now writes: "The additional legislative proposal includes that the guiding tasks of the NPO are carried out on the basis of the agreements and strategy as described in concession policy plan, performance agreement, profiles of supply channels, budget, agreements with broadcasters and the co-ordination rules." I think agreements with broadcasters are beautiful, but less clear, and there has been frequent noise in the last six months. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether it is true that the legal framework will be limited to the formal side and the formal documents. Did I get that right? That was my first short question. The second concerns the fact that the letter now states that broadcasters are involved in all the aforementioned documents, including the coordination rules, binding arrangements and annual plans. That makes sense to my group. I just don't know exactly what its effect is. Can the Secretary of State briefly reflect on that? It can really be short. At a third time, this does not have to be very extensive; that seems inappropriate to me. However, the letter raised that question. Then I come to the procedure chosen. This bill goes through an exceptional route. My group very much appreciates the proposals made by the Secretary of State to amend this bill. It is an improvement and clarification of the legislative text. It is a framework of the steering role of the NPO and thus a clear and firmer position for broadcasters. In addition, the motion for a resolution I tabled in the second term will ensure better assurance. The motion is expected to be supported by a majority. At least the signature still looks like this. That is an important element for my group. However, amendment of the law has implications for the procedure. I already appointed in the second term how that should be weighted. The route of a novelle is, in our view, the most pure one. However, the First Chamber does not demand it. That's what the government's offering. However, the Secretary of State has come up with another solution, which is also legally possible. The Secretary of State then writes that the bill will only enter into force if the amendment of the other law supplementing this law has been accepted in this house. The novelle preferred us. However, in view of the clarifications and improvements that will be made to this bill, the State Secretary's commitments on the points mentioned above and the speed he has promised in relation to the regional broadcasters, my group will nevertheless be able to agree to the procedure chosen and therefore to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u46	The Christian Union has a very good reputation with regard to state law. You could say that that group might be in the first place. Does Mrs Bikker have any reservations about this bill and, above all, about the procedure, also in view of the opinions that exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u47	Thanks for the compliment. I will mainly pass that on to my predecessors. If you're just like Senator, you can't charge yourself. However, I will convey it to my predecessors. One of them is not a predecessor; he is still here. I have just indicated that, according to my group, the novelle is the most pure from a state point of view, but let us not pretend that a novelle is the only taste we have seen in this Senate. The history of law shows that it has happened several times that the government comes up with a solution in this way. If we had written it ourselves, things might have turned out differently, but we're looking at the whole thing now. It's the cabinet's proposal and the cabinet's offering it to us. That's how we have the cookie to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u48	Mrs Bikker used the word "taste." I just said that the Christian Union has a first place as far as state law is concerned. Can you imagine it tastes like lentil soup to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u49	I can't imagine because that's red soup, as the Bible connoisseurs will know. I can't suspect this Secretary of State for cooking red soup.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u50	No doubt Mr Nagel meant a plate of lentil soup, but that is in a different context. I would like to return to what the Secretary of State has written. I know part of the thoughts within the Christian Union when it comes to the media system. What do you think of the Secretary of State's proposal that the NPO should also develop the element of public accountability? If I remember correctly, you have also argued several times in the first term that the broadcasters together have more than 3.5 million members. Is what the Secretary of State is proposing necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u51	I have argued for a reason that broadcasters with 3.5 million households who are members are the strongest element of our public service broadcasting. That is what I stand for, and I think this bill is going to do even more justice to it than it already did. Then there's the issue of public representation. If the purpose of the Secretary of State is to supplement the blind spots in the programming so that public service broadcasting as a whole becomes more representative, then I understand that he is looking for ways to check. If it is a representative whole, I do not think that is an insurmountable objection. However, this should not prevent broadcasters from having a strong position. And I have made every effort to do so. You have therefore also heard me ask the clarification about the steering role of the NPO and what this means for the broadcasters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u52	The Secretary of State also writes "" and we are pleased that what is given to externals through the NPO should be broadcast, especially in the form of co-productions or otherwise by the broadcasters. Haven't you realized by definition the public accountability in ultimate form and isn't it double-up? Aren't you afraid that it will be at the expense of your beloved 3.5 million members or households?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u53	These are precisely the questions that I believe we have addressed in detail in the first and second periods. I think it is a gain that the outside producers are now increasing together with the broadcasters with ultimate responsibility for the broadcasters. We've gotten a little sharper. That does not alter the fact that I understand perfectly from the NPO that people want to see the state of public service broadcasting in the broadest possible range, even wider than the 3.5 million households. Let's face it, how many members do the parties have in this house? Some one, some more. Eventually, we always go back to the voters. Well, that's different with public service broadcasting. I don't think that's crazy in itself either. However, it should not mean that we will no longer need broadcasting organisations. I believe that I have been ready to do so in my contribution so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u54	Mr Atsma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u55	You think the Secretary of State has been sufficiently clear on that point? I am asking this because the Secretary of State, when it comes to public accountability, mainly reflects on what has been put forward by the D66 side and by other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u56	I just indicated that this diversity is what I like. I would also like to see all minorities represented. That is why I have tabled the motion for a resolution on philosophy. I want that secured. That is precisely why I do not see in that public council the great danger that Mr Atsma believes he recognizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. A third deadline will give us the opportunity to point out once again what our group considers to be fundamental in dealing with this Media Act. The aim of the new Media Act is to facilitate the opening up of the freely closed broadcasting system to external programme ideas. Civil society organisations, trends with a message and creative creators can submit plans for information, education, art, culture and philosophy programmes at a single window, without having to set up a complete broadcasting service. This lowers the threshold of the Mediapark, increases the diversity of public broadcasting and provides more creative input. With all the value we attach to the pluralism of today's Hilversum: we see the admission of outsiders with a message as an enrichment that suits today's multifaceted society. Even smaller movements or groups in society that are not represented by a broadcaster now get the chance to take advantage of the public platforms. In the ideal world, public broadcasting really becomes everyone's. That is what we are talking about. New rules have been devised to make the more open order work. The NPO becomes a coordinating organisation, which sets up substantive frameworks in consultation with the broadcasters. The implementation of these frameworks in programmes is for the broadcasters and their programme makers as well as for external parties who come up with programme proposals. The broadcasters remain involved as co-producer. Not so much the aim and the core, but above all the rules of the game that have been proposed, made my group critical of the legislative proposals. According to these rules, an organisation set up by law and appointed by the political directors will determine the substantive frameworks of public service broadcasting. If that organisation, the NPO, becomes a game dealer and referee in the allocation of the transmission time, then alertness is required. Is politics at a sufficient distance, as envisaged in European legislation and in the Constitution? Are the rules of the law applicable in practice? Is the game dealer indeed the organisation that not only deals with the established interests on the Mediapark, but can it also understand itself in a broad sense with society? And are the roles clear, clear and applicable to all parties? Those are the questions that my group has asked itself. That is not playing Tweede Kamertje, as has been suggested here and there in this house. That is exactly what the First Chamber stands for in our view: to test the law against the Constitution and against European regulations and to monitor its enforcement and feasibility. The proposals we have put forward in the debate are therefore precisely those. Put the politics at a distance, stay away from the appointment of directors and supervisors. Give the viewer and the listener, give society influence through public consultation. Clarify the frameworks in the law so that everyone can take their proper role. As far as my group is concerned, the letter from the Secretary of State provides the additions we consider necessary on these points. We thank the Secretary of State for that. We believe that the Media Act will be better. The position of the NPO and the politics becomes purer, the look of the NPO must really go out and the editorial freedom of the programmers remains secure. That's not nothing! Then the form in which the Secretary of State wishes to amend the law. First the RPO components and then, after change, the NPO components. In any case, the law itself provides the basis for a differentiated introduction in Article III. We have heard the Secretary of State clearly and unequivocally say that he links the entry into force of the relevant articles of law with agreement with the legal parts to be amended in the Second and First Chambers. We attach great importance to this commitment. We believe that, although it may not be quite common in this area, this does not differ substantially from other legal procedures. In fact, half a law is now being enforced, because the Secretary of State has urgent arguments for the entry into force of part of the law on the RPO. There is also a comment to be made. This Chamber previously called on the cabinet not to bring forward any combined legislative proposals. The progress of this law proves once again how useful it is for the cabinet to carry out that motion of this Chamber. A separate RPO law and a separate NPO law would have saved us a lot of complicated discussions. In any case, what the Secretary of State proposes can, in our opinion, be formal. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State how his proposal stands if, for whatever reason, there is another ruler who is concerned with the entry into force of the laws to be amended. The proposals put forward by the Secretary of State in his letter of 4 March improve the law as far as we are concerned. My group can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to devote my third term mainly to the procedure, because I have already expressed my opinion on the content of this law in the previous two deadlines. In my youth I heard from my parents always two mantras: "hasty rush is rarely good" and "think first, then do it only." The Room already hears it: I was already at speed as a child. Why make arrangements tomorrow if you can do that today? I have rolled my eyes many times when I heard these mantras again, but they were among the good warnings my parents gave me. I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity not to rush this bill, but to proceed with careful urgency. The starting point of a law is that we need to regulate something nationwide, or that we think there is a problem that needs to be solved. The latter is the reason why the Secretary of State is submitting this bill. In his view, there is a problem: the future stability of public service broadcasting. This law must provide the solution. Whether or not he does is a political view. The SP Group believes that the law does not contribute to making it future-proof. We have also argued this in the first two deadlines. In addition to this position, my group also believes that some things, in the spirit of the way in which the Secretary of State had thought the future of public service broadcasting, are badly regulated. We are not alone in this; the majority of the Chamber agrees. The Secretary of State must therefore do something, otherwise this Chamber will vote against. The Secretary of State is now presenting a list of amendments. These could indeed improve the law. In any case, it could mean that our group could reconsider its position on the law. The Secretary of State must therefore make a change and he has an instrument available to him, namely the novelle, which has been made for minor repairs. However, the Secretary of State chooses not to use this medicine. I understand that, because the novelle is, as I said, the usual way to dot on the i. A novelle isn't really there to change a law. What the Secretary of State is proposing here is an essential change on important points of this law. The law is largely rewritten. These amendments bring new proposals, not only to the general wishes of the Chamber, but also to the individual wishes of political groups. Let me give you an example: there will be a social public or advisory council, a new phenomenon. But we do not yet know how, for example, the Council of State or the House of Representatives thinks about this. If, for example, this wish of the GroenLinks Group does not make it in the Lower House, will GroenLinks' support for the bill also fall out? Of course, this applies to all the groups that have expressed their wishes here: from the viewer for advertising to the question of what will ultimately become the precise role of the NPO. The Secretary of State says his word is his word, even if everything is delayed or if the cabinet should fall. But the truth is that this Chamber does not have any certainty or any successor thinks the same about this, or whether there is going to be an even more serious situation which will bring parts of this law into effect by the Secretary of State. For example, I would remind Minister Van der Hoeven and the'split-up law', which, after having been postponed a number of times, was finally put into effect by her. The Secretary of State's guarantee is up to the door of this Chamber. Once we have voted, the fate of our decision is in the hands of the Cabinet, the Council of State and the House of Representatives. Then we get the strange constellation that the Lower House is going to check what we have invented in the Upper Chamber. What will be the verdict of this Chamber if the law on the other side is amended in a way that this Chamber had not devised? Are we not in a position that we should not want? The Secretary of State says that all this must be done, otherwise the reforms in the regional broadcasters will not be able to continue. After a number of interruptions, he also says quite honestly that this is because of the cuts. He has half a law, but he's already setting up the RPO on the basis of a law that isn't even through the House of Representatives, based on, say, an idea, a plan. However, this does not have any legal basis. Meanwhile, the Secretary of State wants to continue with the second phase of this law, while the first phase has not even been completed. That is strange, because if there is no need for a first and second phase, why are they there? Of course, the first stage must first be completed in order to lay the legal basis for the second stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u59	I want two more sentences back. I'm trying to follow what Mrs. Gerkens said. She said there's no legal basis to work with the RPO. I understand that if we adopt this law, that legal basis is there. In that sense, I do not fully follow the reasoning of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u60	I understand the confusion. Maybe I should have explained it a little more. The Secretary of State undertakes to set up the RPO in accordance with the wishes and also in accordance with the way in which we wish to do so at the NPO. He says he will continue to do so in full according to the way in which he is going to set up the RPO. But then he is going to set up the RPO on the basis of ideas that we have expressed in this Chamber, while the legal basis for doing so must come from the legislative amendment that is not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u61	I am not the Secretary of State's spokesman, but as I understand it, a legal framework is now being created. The Secretary of State wishes to continue to do so so that the further implementation of this law will allow for clarity as soon as possible. That is what my group thought and considers to be plausible. Couldn't the SP go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u62	That is a different question from the first question put by Mr Lintmeijer. About the establishment of the RPO, the Secretary of State says: I am going to follow the model according to the way in which I will do so, as I promised the First Chamber, in the future at the NPO. Mr Lintmeijer then says: should we all set this up so quickly? My answer to that is actually "no." It is precisely for the regional broadcasters that there are a lot of problems with this bill. We have heard from the participation council and the works council, but also from a number of delegates, that this is not yet a good thing. They have called for the whole, the first and the second stages to be put to the vote. That request has been made up to and including ROOS itself. I would like to say to the Secretary of State that this is all the more reason to put everything to the vote at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u63	Very briefly, Mr Lintmeijer, because we are in a time trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u64	My conclusion is that the SP currently does not consider a legal framework for the RPO to be necessary. My group says: then you will allow the uncertainty there to persist even longer. We do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u65	There is a legal framework for an RPO that is not going to be used, but that is going to be used in a way that is deemed desirable. That already indicates how messy this whole story is. The second phase of the Media Act should give journalistic guarantees. It is the guarantees on which my group is still deeply concerned, or rather: my group is convinced that this law will undermine the journalistic quality of regional broadcasting. As I said, even ROOS asked the Secretary of State to complete the second phase before setting up the RPO. Otherwise, there is the possibility of having an RPO without a legal basis, which then has to apply for a concession for which there is no legal basis either if the State Secretary's legislative amendments do not go through the Chambers quickly or end there. The Secretary of State is not indifferent to Mr Ten Hoeve's motion, although he leaves the opinion to the Chamber. Two delegates rightly point out that Friesland is not unique in our country. They call for this motion not only to apply to Omrop Fryslân, but to all regional broadcasters, in order to monitor and preserve the regional language or culture. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's on the other side of this. I would also like to hear whether Mr Ten Hoeve is prepared to extend his motion on the right of assent and on the appointment of the editor-in-chief with heavy advisory rights in the provision of funds for programming. I think he has already said something about this in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u66	I have already said something about this in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u67	Haste rush is rarely good, my parents said. First think, then do it! A cut of only 17 million makes sure that there is a law here that rages on all sides. The resistance of the Upper House was not news to the State Secretary; the Lower House has already pointed this out to him. He waved that away. He then appointed a VVD colleague at an extremely sensitive time. He still hasn't told me why this man happens to be so indispensable in this position. With him in charge, he can now easily change the appointments. In the coming years the political influence is already assured; something with a well and a calf. He then insisted that the pressure was so high that he had to pass a crumbling law through the First Chamber. Our highly esteemed, deceased former colleague Mr Witteveen wrote a beautiful book: De wet als kunstwerk. It seems like there's a new book in the making: the law as a piece of shit. To be honest, I don't know who I'm talking to anymore. Should I address this Secretary of State, who apparently does not understand how sound legislation works? Or should I address my colleagues in order to uphold the rule of law of this Chamber and do what we are supposed to do? The opinion of this Chamber is clear to everyone: it is insufficient. The Secretary of State is then called upon to do so. Then it is a novoum to agree with so much cut-and-paste on the basis of a austerity measure. If we do, we will set a precedent that this cabinet will eagerly use. In this context, I am very concerned that the PvdA Group is already saying that this is common practice. She is referring, for example, to the Telecommunications Act, whereby the absence of entry into force by the House of Representatives was regulated by amendment. That's a lot different than here in the First Chamber. I said that we should reconsider the law after amendment. So many changes call for reflection on the whole. My group cannot think about a law yet to be passed. My group can only give an opinion on the legislative proposal now before us. That judgment is and remains negative. Once again, I urge the Secretary of State to uphold the bill and to send the repair law to the Chamber as a matter of urgency. I have co-signed Mr Atsma's motion for a resolution. It could be settled in two months. Then we can follow the royal road, as we should. Then my group can give an opinion on the whole of the law. We are and will remain the First Chamber. We're not supposed to make laws, but we're supposed to judge them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u68	Following a comment made by Mrs Gerkens, I looked in the letters in my mailbox. The last letter from ROOS that I can find calls for the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. That's all I can find.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u69	Mr Ten Hoeve is sitting next to me. I'll send him my e-mails in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u70	Mr. Chairman. In the second term, I was the last speaker of the Chamber. That is what I am now in the third term. In the second term, I have already said that the contribution would be limited to the most important things as far as D66 is concerned. So I will now. I said at that time that the draft law before us would only be acceptable if the Secretary of State was not involved in the selection of the members of the board of directors of Dutch Public Broadcasting. The commitments made by the Secretary of State and the letter he wrote to us show that he intends to do exactly that. In addition, we have made it very clear that for us strengthening the direction of the NPO that is a very important element in the legislative proposal would only be acceptable after changes in governance. Governance is the important issue for us in this legislation. More power in public service broadcasting means that the distance from the government should be greater. We were concerned with the appointment procedure and the selection procedure. In his letter, the Secretary of State has fulfilled our desires on this point. The other point was that the direction of the NPO should only be achieved if the governance was properly adapted. The Secretary of State will do the same. This has brought out the most important element of this law for us. The aim is to bring public service broadcasting to what is stated in the preamble to the law: more openness, more pluralism and creative competition, with space for new providers in Hilversum. Mr Lintmeijer also stressed this. I believe that this motivates us to remain involved in this law and, in principle, to be positive about it. We believe it is important that the points I have just mentioned can be realised. I hope that this Secretary of State will be able to meet this in the shortest possible time, precisely in accordance with the commitments he has made to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u71	Secretary of State, will you be able to respond immediately? I hear you want a ten-minute suspension. I don't recommend it. Maybe five minutes will do? We have to be ready by 7:00. If you're not ready, I'll just cut you off. After all, we have already moved the General European Reviews. They're scheduled until 00.00 or 00.30. What will it be, five minutes or ten minutes? If I give you ten minutes now, will you be ready by 7:00? I see you nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u72	I call the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u73	Mr. Chairman. We are here today for the third time before the plenary debate on the amendment of the Media Act. Last Friday, I sent a letter to the Chamber about the proposal for a supplementary bill, the process of the various legislative proposals that are still coming and my other commitments. Members' contributions show that this letter has at least provided clarity for some of the political groups. I'm glad to hear that, but there are, of course, questions. I like to walk past it. First of all, I come to the questions about the procedure, then to the questions about the regional broadcasters and finally to the questions about the national public service broadcasting. Questions have been asked about the proposal for the process of this bill and the supplementary bill. The reason I proposed this procedure is to make it possible for us to take a number of steps quickly with the regional broadcasters, because that is really necessary. At the same time, I respect the wish of the Chamber to allow the remaining part of the legislative proposal to enter into force only once the additions have been made. It is therefore not the case that the law does not enter into force, as Mr Atsma suggests, or goes directly into the trash. The law only enters into force a little later, after a number of additions and clarifications have been introduced into the law. That is a procedure which I believe and which is also possible under the law, a procedure which is not entirely unusual either. There have recently been several examples of issues in which this procedure has been followed. In the end, this Chamber makes its own assessment of the commitments I make in this respect. With this route I also try to do justice to the dual order. A number of questions have also been asked about this. In the Lower House there was broad support for the current bill. However, this Chamber wishes to see a number of additions. I am prepared to do so, but we must take the royal route. This means discussion and decision-making in the Council of Ministers and then an opinion from the Council of State. After that, the members of the House of Representatives will have to make their own assessment and then it will come along. Here too, the legislative proposal will have to be able to count on a majority before we take a step further. In my view, I say in the direction of Mr Nagel, this is not a procedure that requires an additional opinion from the Council of State in advance. The Council of State will, of course, give its opinion on this in the course of the next legislative proposal. 50PLUS, the CDA and the PVV have asked what my commitments are worth here. I already indicated in second term that I am not making these commitments here as the person Sander Dekker, but in office, as Secretary of State for OCW. The doctrine of ministerial responsibility and thus the rule of confidence mean that my successors are also kept to it. They too are responsible for my decisions, commitments and actions, as well as I am responsible for all the actions and commitments of my predecessors. That's clear to me. Then there is the question of what happens if a supplementary bill doesn't make it, or if, in the meantime, the cabinet falls unexpectedly. There could be a lot of unforeseen circumstances. Even in the second term, I have already indicated that if this does not lead to a full legislative proposal in this Chamber, part of the Media Act will not enter into force. Of course, I'm not assuming that. It is a bit of a then-reason, I say in the direction of Mr Schalk. Legally, there is not a great deal to be done in this respect, but if that is the case, I can imagine that one of my successors, if that part of the law does not come into force at some point. But when the sky comes down, we all have a blue hat. So you reason from the situation that all kinds of bears will appear on the road. I hope, however, that they do not come. Then there is an opinion on Mr Atsma's motion, which deals with the process. I'm deceiving that motion. Questions have also been asked about the region. I've been busy with that for the past week. Following the debate with the First Chamber, I spoke to the regional broadcasters in detail, because that was where the question arose as to how we are going to proceed. I also taste that question when I talk to individual directors, because they have a lot of staff who don't know what it's going to be like. But there is a good plan. The basis for the next phase is the ROOS plan of the regional broadcasters themselves, from last year. That's a good plan. It still stands. It includes a vision of the future of regional broadcasters. In my letter of 7 September, I said that I would like to embrace that plan and that I want to help to achieve it, including through legislation. The vision is based on a strong anchoring of journalism in the region itself, from its own regional identity and its own culture. The regional broadcasters will then cooperate more closely with each other, but also with national and local broadcasters. In addition, there is scope for journalistic innovation to also enable the transition to more online. The current legislative proposal is a necessary first step in implementing the ROOS plan. I would like to stress once again that it is of the utmost importance for the regional broadcasters to be clear about the administrative organisation and the way in which the administrative organisation can implement the cuts. That is why I have also discussed with the regional broadcasters that the follow-up steps will be taken very carefully. This also has to do with the insecurity of the staff. My letter of yesterday to the regional broadcasters I have sent the Chamber a copy of this document which will help to improve that clarity. Hopefully, the letter also removes some of the concerns of the broadcasters. My consultation with the regional broadcasters confirms that accepting the legislative proposal now before us is a first necessary step in the realisation of the plans of the broadcasters themselves. In fact, it lays the legal foundation for the first phase. This is the way in which the realization is started. It is important to install a Supervisory Board for the RPO, which can prepare for a concession application, the funding application and the appointment procedure for the Board of RPO. I will do everything in my power to support the reorganisation of regional broadcasters by introducing the RPO. Mrs. Sent asked for that, too. We have agreed that we will have intensive consultations in the coming period. I will do this not only with the broadcasters, but also with the IPO and other interested parties, because I want to make sure that we can also take the next steps that are necessary. There is a piece of legislation on this, but there is also, to a large extent, a reorganisation. We also need to go through these steps carefully, especially with regard to the organisations of the regional broadcasters. Mrs Teunissen asked if I can guarantee that the cuts will not be at the expense of journalistic content. This has always been the aim of the ROOS plan, namely to complete the austerity as much as possible by working centrally together where this can be done, for example by setting up shared services there can be a major impact on efficiency and by working more together in clusters. The reorganisation plan was also calculated by an organizational consultancy firm, commissioned by ROOS. It shows that achieving the 17 million-dollar cut is possible, with the greatest possible relief from journalistic content. That doesn't mean nothing's gonna change. Jobs will also be lost. This is usually the case in the case of a cut, but this is the way in which the cut can be introduced in such a way that the viewer and listener are affected as little as possible by it. Is this plan also a guarantee of journalistic independence? I say yes to that. That happens in two ways. Firstly, through Article 2.88, which also guarantees journalistic autonomy for regional broadcasters. Secondly, the starting point for the next phase is that independent editorial staff remain in the region. They will not be independent broadcasters with their own directors and boards and everything else, as it is now. It will be units that will give an independent interpretation of journalistic content. That is the essence of the ROOS plan and I still support it. Mr Atsma asked about Drenthe and Zeeland. They have not yet signed the cooperation agreement. If this law is passed and we take a next step, I can imagine that will happen. They are both small and, in my view, vulnerable regional broadcasters. Why? Because it's areas where fewer people live. This means that this is taken into account in the funding. There is more per capita funding. Otherwise, you cannot create a full-fledged journalistic function there either. That will also be the case in the future. Questions were also raised about Friesland following the debate we had last week. Mr Ten Hoeve rightly said that there is a special position there. There are broadcasters, for example in Limburg, who ask if they can also get such a status separately. I think there's really another situation. Mr Ten Hoeve has already indicated this. According to the European Charter for Regional Languages, a number of specific provisions apply to the Frisian language. In fact, there are specific obligations for media in the Frisian language. These expressly do not apply to Limburg or Lower Saxony. That really is an incomparable situation. It does not mean that nothing happens at all before the regional bonding in Limburg, for example. There will be no media council there, whereas according to a majority of this Chamber it is important for Friesland. But in Limburg, too, policy committees will be working on media offerings, looking locally at how specific regional programmes can be properly implemented and how the public can be involved. A number of questions have been asked about national public service broadcasting. Mr Atsma asked about the public involvement of the NPO. I think it is important that the NPO should also talk to the public, especially as we are all saying with this bill: the NPO has an important role for everyone, for the public as a whole, for public service broadcasting as a whole. This is not, therefore, instead of, but in addition to the public involvement already enjoyed by broadcasters. There's a lot of ways to do that. The NPO has already put forward a number of suggestions for this in the concession policy plan, such as digital public consultations, a general window for viewers and listeners, public surveys, public banisters and a youth council. The latter is good because it concerns a target group which is still not sufficiently achieved. In addition, and this is an outcome of this debate, it is important to institutionalise this somewhat more strongly with a representative advisory board, which can have a number of functions. Mr Lintmeijer pointed that out. Mrs Bikker asked about the arrangements with the broadcasters. She raised a point that I included in the letter to the Chamber. I am referring here to the agreements which have a formal status. The letter refers to the agreements in accordance with Article 2.55 of the Media Act. These are agreements between the NPO and broadcasters on the quantitative and qualitative objectives for the media supply and the public coverage of the supply channels, and on the mutual efforts to do so. That's literally from the law. Mrs Bikker, like Mrs Sent, asked for all these plans and arrangements to be drawn up. What's the status of that? What is the involvement of broadcasters in this? All those documents that form the framework for the NPO involve broadcasters. Take, for example, the concession policy plan, the profiles for supply channels, the budget and the coordination rules. Most of these documents are subject to a legal procedure in which the panel of broadcasters gives its views. In the end, in a conflict, the Supervisory Board plays a role. The agreements between the NPO and the broadcasters on the objectives of the media offering and the public coverage of the supply channels are subject to an individual broadcaster's own party. For all documents, the NPO in practice always consults broadcasters when drawing up them. This is not achieved in isolation, no, the NPO always does so in consultation with the college of broadcasters and the various editors, of which the broadcasters are part. Mr Nagel asked a question about a WOB request. Of course, we're gonna handle this nicely. In the second term, I have already made a commitment in response to a question from Mrs Gerkens. As soon as that goes out, the Chamber will receive a copy of it, so that the Chamber will have the same information. I'll come to a conclusion. We have all discussed this bill very extensively on a number of occasions. I have always tried to answer all the questions as well as possible and to remove any concerns about this bill. I hope that worked. It is time to give clarity to the different parties. I'm asking the Chamber to put the bill to the vote. The future may be much more important than the formal procedure. We are all doing this for a strong and relevant public broadcaster, a public broadcaster where there will be more creative competition, with more ideas from outside, with more distinction, with more decisiveness. On top of that, a first legal basis is laid for the major changes within regional broadcasters. Eventually it's about seeing and hearing the viewer and the listener, those programs that matter. It's part of a public service network that we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u74	Mrs Gerkens has asked me a question and I would like to put something to the Secretary of State. Does he agree with me that the commitment about the Viewer should not first be presented to the Lower House in general and Mr Verhoeven from that Chamber in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u75	I made that promise to you. It is a commitment that can be met without the need for a legislative change. Moreover, it is a commitment that I suspect she can count on broad support in the House of Representatives. In fact, a motion for a resolution, Mr Heerma, was adopted earlier. This is not so much about the discussion that Mr Schalk and I have had on the application of the Viewing Visible regime to advertising, but about the way in which you can introduce the Viewing Visible platform neutrally, for example on the content of public broadcasting on the Internet. At the time, there was broad support for this, because the Viewing Point principle is widely supported at all. I suspect that will also be the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u76	Before I close the debate, I would like to say something from my position as President who is responsible for the correct identification of the points on which the Chamber has to decide. I note that a special path is being followed, something that has not occurred before in this form and particularly in this size. A majority of the First Chamber may live with the construction proposed by the Secretary of State. As President, I would like to make it very clear that I have my concerns about this procedure, given the constitutional position of the Supreme Court, but it is up to the Chamber. I would like to make it quite clear that this should not be seen as a precedent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-08-eerstekamer-9.u77	I'm here to deal with the bill. A roll-call vote has already been requested on the legislative proposal and I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the legislative proposal and the motions tabled.
