ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. In De Financieele Dagblad we could read that there is a bloodbath amongzzp'ers. The new law that makes the Tax Administration review contracts ofzzp'ers makes its first victims. In the Senate, only D66, GroenLinks, ChristenUnion and the Party for Animals voted against this law. The figures in Het Financieele Dagblad show that out of the 4,481 model contracts submitted, only 370 were approved by the Tax Administration. More than 1,000 model contracts have been rejected. Three out of four contracts submitted are not approved by the Tax Administration. And I am not even talking about all the contracts that are being withdrawn. 2,000 contracts haven't even been dealt with yet. The treatment lasts 11 weeks. You're gonna have to explain to your client that it's gonna take 11 weeks until you're clear. First the VVD and the PvdA wanted to increase the taxes forzzp'ers by over €500 per person. We were lucky enough to prevent that. Nevertheless, the Labour Agenda Party seems to be making it impossible forzzp'ers to work through this law to win over this VVD Secretary of State. I have often asked questions over the past year and every time the Secretary of State trivializes the problem: there is nothing going on; go quietly, because the rules have not been tightened at all. Let the Secretary of State explain that to all those self-employed professionals andzzp'ers who are simply not getting an assignment anymore. Let the Secretary of State explain to me how it is possible that so many contracts are rejected. Finally, I make a call, because it is better to turn halfway than to go completely astray. D66 thinks it's high time to just repeal this law. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. System changes are always inherently creating uncertainty, including the change in the system of the abolition of the FAS. And uncertainty is never good, especially when it comes to work, income and the way you work. Uncertainty takes some getting used to. That is why it has been a priority to clarify from the outset. The cabinet does not want to hinder real entrepreneurs in any way in their work. We're about halfway through the implementation now. I talk about this regularly with the Tax Administration and with the people who are implementing it. I'll walk them through all sectors. This shows that by far the majority of zzp'ers can indeed work out of employment and remain zzp'er. That can't always be in the same way as before, because some things were covered by the VAR, but weren't quite proper according to the law. In many ways, by far the majority ofzzp'ers can continue to work. Most people do not need a model agreement at all because it is very clear that they are entrepreneurs. Some situations do ask for that. In recent months we have built up a system of sectoral agreements that is now virtually covering them. There are 10 general and 50 to 60 sectoral agreements. A multitude of professions, and in the main sectors as well as different functions within them, are guaranteed in advance. As a result, peace has returned to many sectors and these model contracts are being worked on. Sometimes work is also done without a model contract because it was not necessary. There's a few more coming, too. There's still a few in the pain line. The intention is to establish a covering system. It also appears that not everything can be done. Some things just can't. Sometimes that leads to grief. It concerns a limited number of cases in my observation. It is then often things that we, including everyone in this room, would recognize as things that are very similar to employment. In addition to the sectoral model agreement that can be removed from the site, there are also many entrepreneurs who appreciate security in advance for themselves and for their own way of working, which sometimes differs from what is on the site. Of the 800,000zzp'ers and about as many clients as possible, about 4,000 requests have been received. These all relate to cases that are not found on the site, but often that is the observation closer to an employment. People who are working in a regular way can often find this on the site or don't need anything at all. For the cases mentioned, the treatment time is on average ten and a half weeks. I have caused this all by myself, because I have asked the Tax Administration to take part in this. It is very easy to say no in cases that do not comply directly with the law in the first version. Then the treatment time drops to less than a week, but that really doesn't serve anyone. I believe that the Tax Administration should play an important role in explaining what can and what cannot and should work with entrepreneurs on something that complies with the law. The Tax Administration is independent in all ways and in no way tax advisor, but it must explain at this stage how the law is put together and what can and cannot be done. This often leads to fruitful consultation. This very often leads to the fact that things that do not make sense in the first version being submitted turn out to be true later on. This leads to people being able to work as real entrepreneurs. All in all, there is still a great deal to be done in the field of information. There are still ghost stories going around. We fight them hard. We will continue to cover the system. There are all kinds of entrepreneurs who want to have a security for themselves in advance in something that differs from what is on the site. However, everything is aimed at getting security in advance in the period until 1 May next year, because that is the implementation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	I get the impression a little bit that the Secretary of State is looking very closely at the rules of the law. D66 prefers to watch how these rules work out in the workplace. There's something quite different going on than what the Secretary of State says. We speak a lot of clients, also very large, who no longer dare to work with the self-employed. The Secretary of State can say that you can do fine without such a contract, but the experience is that self-employed people will simply not be accepted. I call on the Secretary of State to come out of his ivory tower and go to the workplace. It works very differently in the workplace. There are a lot of companies that don't hire self-employed people anymore. There are a lot of self-employed people who show me how their work supply dries because no one wants to hire them anymore. Is the Secretary of State just gonna go on and keep saying it's all okay, or is he gonna intervene? Information is, of course, good and the Secretary of State must continue to do so, but it is even better to repeal this law. Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do? Is it true, by the way, that I have heard that in practice the Tax Administration often says that it is necessary to adopt provisions from other model agreements and that the application is withdrawn if it is not done literally? The number of applications rejected would not be 75 but 90%. Is this true? Is the Secretary of State prepared to rescind the law? If he doesn't, is he willing to send us an overview of the state of affairs every month? I still find it very strange that all the figures I have mentioned today were not reported in a letter to the Chamber but only surfaced when an organization started to wobble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	The Tax Administration is working with many people in practice, with all industry associations, with all domes, with all individualzzp'ers and companies. This is all workspace. The strong impression of the people who are working on it is that the vast majority of thezzp'ers are working again as a zzp'er and can and that for a lot ofzzp'ers this does not lead to the message that it is no longer possible. About 8,000 newzzp'ers still report every month. So we are going to work on a situation that is in accordance with the law. We do not, indeed, make concessions to the law, but the Tax Administration takes an explaining and enlightening role in this. We are in accordance with the law with real entrepreneurs who are important to the Netherlands, who can get to work and find that security beforehand on the site. Before the recess I promised a letter, a so-called interim report. We're almost halfway through the implementation now. I want to send the mid-term report to the Chamber next week. It shows what has happened so far in the field of information and assessment of agreements, the state of play and also the picture in the various sectors. The picture may be different in different sectors. It is important to inform the Chamber completely about this. Next week I would like to send the letter I promised before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u5	D66 did not support this law in the Senate because it had no confidence that the law would not lead to independent entrepreneurs being put in the way of things. That's what it turns out to be. I see in a lot of places that people just don't get to work anymore. I talk to a lot of entrepreneurs who just don't hire self-employed people anymore. I am sorry that the Secretary of State keeps saying, "Go on quietly, don't worry." Thus, through the back door, by this Secretary of State of the VVD, the anti-zzp policy of the Labour Party is simply put into effect. Mr President, I shall be requesting a debate on this in the course of the proceedings. I think the Chamber should debate this. As far as D66 is concerned, this law just goes away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u6	I note that D66 has wholeheartedly supported this law in the Lower House. We have also adopted wholeheartedly an amendment which introduces an evaluation clause, which we have all been waiting for. I also note that D66, like the PvdA, feels that everyone deserves certainty and that you cannot work in uncertainty. I have a question for the Secretary of State about the implementation of this law, because I am also concerned. We now have ten general model agreements to work with. Has it not surprised the Secretary of State that almost 5,000 entrepreneurs still want to present their own variant? That wasn't supposed to happen, was it? Isn't it much better to tell people how to work with the ten standard agreements? If we have to maintain 5,000 model agreements, we are as far away from the VAR as we were at the time. That's not enforceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u7	It is manageable, but I agree with Mrs Vos that it is not really necessary. There are ten general agreements on the site that are already covering thezzp economy. Specific model agreements have still been signed for specific sectors. That's gonna be 60 or more later. The opinion of the experts working on it is indeed that a lot of these own variants are not really necessary. At the same time the following applies, because that is how the Tax Administration is. If you're asking for further security in advance, if you're still in doubt, you'll be served by the IRS. Industry associations also have a role to play in this. They advise many of their members not to go on for too long in making model agreements more and more detailed. There's really no need for that. You can work with what will be on the site, but again: if companies want it, they will be served neatly by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u8	Self-employed professionals: that's what we call them, because in the eyes of the VVD these are people who take responsibility for their own income and then make choices to take care of their disability insurance and their pension. I note that over the past few months, in the last week, it has appeared in the media, the number of entries to the Chamber of Commerce has decreased and that self-employed professionals are even being unsubscribed at the moment. Furthermore, I hear signals from payroll companies that they intend to award the Secretary of State a gold medal because they believe they will get a lot of extra work. This is mainly due to the unrest that is currently present with the clients. The clients generally say to the zzp'er: just go to a payroll construction. This creates an extra disc, which affects the earning model of the zzp'er. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he recognizes these movements. Is he also willing to clarify quickly to the clients, so that the unrest diminishes? In addition, the payroll companies currently have an increase due to these types of constructions. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u9	I'll recognize the story. That story even bothers me a little bit. It's like this. If you can get started as a zzp'er via an intermediary, you can also work directly as a zzp'er, because it's the same law. If that working relationship is irrevocable, you can have that employment as much through a payroller as directly. All in all, these intermediaries have nothing to do with the DBA Act. There may be all kinds of reasons to enable a payroller. I am not saying anything about that, because the Empire should not interfere with that at all. However, this law has nothing to do with payrolling and therefore does not give any additional incentive to work with payrollers. So I say to every entrepreneur: if you want to work directly withzzp'ers, you can. Even if you want to do that through an employment, you don't have to do it through a payroller. That is a choice of its own and it has absolutely nothing to do with this law. It's a good thing I'm getting an opportunity here to tell you that clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u10	Short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u11	There's no payrolldwang.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-5.u12	That's very short. Thank you. I am not giving the VVD an opportunity to ask another question, because it has already taken its turn. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers.
