ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Next Friday afternoon all political parties here in the Chamber will have two USB sticks with plans for Princess Day. This is done under embargo; we must sign for reception and until Princess Day we must keep our mouths shut. Last Thursday, the government leaked all the plans, the entire Millions Note, to the media. Why does the Prime Minister think RTL News is more important than the House of Representatives? There was a press release from the Labour Party or one of the VVD. We must always keep our mouths shut, because when something leaks, the Prime Minister says threateningly, he'll be in his shirt at Prince's Day at the Throne Address. Well, the King can leave his jacket at home, but that's not our fault; it's the government's fault again. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister, why does he think Frits Wester is more important than the King? Why doesn't he just put the government in his shirt? Why doesn't he just put the whole politics in his shirt? I believe that we in the House of Representatives should take ourselves seriously. We will not be able to receive USB sticks under embargo and keep our mouths shut until Prince's Day, while the government is spreading the plans in the media. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: show a little respect for this Chamber and immediately send all the documents, all the budgets, to the House of Representatives, to the end of this Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that I very much regret that there have been leaks of the possible content of parts of the budget. For my part, I want to make no mistake about that. This spring there was another consultation with the First Chamber and the Second Chamber on the publication, publication, of the documents to the Chamber. In particular, it was agreed that the Prince's Day would be given under embargo on Friday before Prince's Day, so that we could have the General Political Reviews directly following Prince's Day and not have a week in between, as would be the case if the documents were given to the Chamber later, under embargo or public. The Prince's Day pieces will be made public on Prince's Day. Why not before? We have talked about this before. There are many reasons for this. It has been suggested that the chapters should be published once a budget chapter has been completed, but that is not possible, as I explained, because the presentation of budgets must take place in conjunction, because it is still possible to move between budgets during the decision-making process. The Constitution is clear. It states that the general budget laws will be submitted on the third Tuesday in September. In the meantime, I do have some experience with that leak. I have come to the conclusion that there is no ideal model for the publication of the documents. Different variants have been tested in recent years. Each time it has been found that these variants again encountered problems. The main reason for this is that, when the alleged information came out last week, the budgetary process had not even been completed. Those days there were hundreds of millions of more detailed work on the budget. That's gonna happen this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	The problem is not with the House of Representatives. The problem is not the Constitution. The problem is not whether or not the budget is ready. The problem is that the government is leaking the budget. That's the big problem. When the Prime Minister says "I'm sorry too," you should not only listen to his words, but also look at his actions. If sensitive and secret information is leaked here in the House of Representatives, the President will launch a serious investigation. I've never heard the Prime Minister say that or do that. He's just saying, I'm sorry too, and we're gonna take a look. However, this is an affront to the King and an affront to the Chamber. With this, the Prime Minister doesn't take the Chamber seriously. So the Prime Minister is just sending those documents to the Chamber this afternoon with a note and an announcement. That note says, "Sorry, I'm so sorry! I'm gonna do a serious investigation to get the bottom of it, so I know if the leak at the Labour Party, at the VVD, at the Treasury Department, at my own ministry or on my campaign team. I don't know now." That's for the Prime Minister to find out!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	Partly for the sake of time, I refer to the answer I gave to Mr Van Raak's first questions,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	This is an affront to the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	... but let me deal with a few specific points. Mr Van Raak asks, among other things, whether I want to launch an investigation. Let me go into that in more detail. We talked about this last year. I said at that time why I am not in favour of it. An investigation may be important, but in this case the circle within which the information has been disseminated is so wide that a reasonable study is expected to be as costly as it is fruitless. That's what I argued here last year. So I'm against such an investigation. That is why there is no request for a criminal investigation. I have just referred to a number of arguments that have been discussed between the Chambers and myself about the way in which the documents are made public: first next Friday under embargo and on Prince's Day with normal disclosure. I am not allowed to refer there, so I will repeat the arguments very briefly. The budgetary process had not been completed until last week and was only completed at the beginning of this week. The presentation of budgets in conjunction is important, which means that you cannot bring budgets out separately. This argument has also been used: bring out a budget as soon as it is finished. I also mentioned the Constitution. Whatever way of publishing the documents you choose, in my experience there is always a very high risk of leakage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	You really don't have to worry about time. That's what I'm about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Prime Minister is forcing us to keep our mouths shut, but in the meantime, the ministry or government is leaking to the media. And what does the Prime Minister say here in this Chamber? "You can go in the tree!" That's an affront to the House of Representatives, again. I will simply ask a majority of this House, when it comes to the regulation, which groups take the House seriously and which do not. Then we will simply force the Prime Minister to make the budget documents public. I have another point that the Prime Minister can also do something about. We'll get the Throne speech on Prince's Day. Then the Minister of Finance, who is now behind the Prime Minister, comes to us with the Millions Note that was leaked last Tuesday. That's gonna be a circus! That is why I ask the Prime Minister not only to make these documents public, but also to refrain from the circus here with the Minister of Finance, who will soon be happy to present to the House of Representatives documents that have been leaked to the media a long and wide week and a half earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm against the first request. The second request to the cabinet, whether or not to receive the Minister of Finance with the briefcase, is, of course, a matter for the Chamber. If the Chamber appreciates this, the Minister of Finance is naturally available to traditionally offer the briefcase.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	There's a leak from the cabinet circles about Prince's Day. That's an annual ritual. We see that this is a broader issue. Today, for example, we read in De Telegraaf that there was a leak from the Bureau. Isn't that the game of politics The Hague, that all kinds of pieces are being leaked over and over again? I hear very little from the Prime Minister about how this essential problem, which affects trust between different entities, can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	Of course, I'm not talking about the Bureau, but I'm talking about the Cabinet. I also said in my first reaction to Mr Van Raak that I very much regret this. It is a recurring but extremely regrettable phenomenon that has been occurring for a number of years. Whatever way you choose to provide the documents under embargo to the Chamber, my belief is that there is a very good chance that there will be another method of bringing out alleged information on parts. I am underlining 'alleged', because what is true of that information will still have to be proved. We will see that next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers.
