ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Two prosecutors, literally with their feet in the mud, charged with the prosecution of persons suspected of serious crimes, such as liquidations, made an urgent appeal yesterday in NRC to the legislator, i.e. to the minister and to the parliament. They say: please make sure that the law is amended so that the preparation of liquidations can be dealt with more effectively. Please note: we are talking about assassinations that have a very significant impact on security and our sense of security. It's about criminal accounts with big risks for the innocent passerby. You'd just happen to walk down a street where someone gets shot. It does something to you, even if you get rid of it without a tear. I want our government to be able, to the maximum extent possible, to detect and punish those who are behind such liquidations, perhaps even when those liquidations have not even taken place. That is why I appeal to both prosecutors. They ask us to act and they make a very serious request. They do not want to wait, but to be able to take action, in the case of specific conduct by suspects which can be inferred that liquidation can be expected. They also want the punishment to be sufficiently severe. They do not want to wait until a victim has fallen, but they want to be able to act if eavesdropping conversations, or, for example, shooting kalashnikovs, give sufficient reason to assume that a liquidation is being prepared, precisely to prevent it from happening. My question to the Minister is therefore quite simple. Does he appeal to the district attorneys? Is he prepared to change the law in the fight against organised crime according to their wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr van Oosten for placing this item on the agenda of the Chamber. Let us say first of all that the liquidations we have seen recently in the criminal environment are worrying and, of course, unacceptable. They not only hit the criminal circuit, but also sometimes innocent people on the streets. That is what Mr Van Oosten is right to say. Therefore, tackling this form of violent violence is a top priority. Co-operation between the police units concerned and the Public Prosecutor's Office will deal with these various incidents in a coherent manner. For the liquidation investigations in Amsterdam alone, hundreds of agents are working day in and day out to prevent those liquidations from taking place. That is exactly the purpose that both prosecutors have set out. My inconvenience is that the district attorneys are commenting on an ongoing trial. There has been an appeal against the court's ruling, and that is why it is appropriate for me as a minister not to rule on what the relevant prosecutors claim. That is why I asked the College of Attorneys General to inform me, at a time when it is appropriate for them, that could be even after the appeal ruling, about the possibilities and wishes they have for solutions, on the basis of a broader analysis of the problem outlined. If the Public Prosecutor's Office asks for an amendment of the law or for an amendment of other legal provisions, this Minister is always available and willing to make a legislative amendment if necessary. That's good use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u3	I understand the Minister's answer. He's actually saying, "This case is still under trial." These two prosecutors are involved in a very concrete case. This is also mentioned in the same article in NRC. I will be the last to ask for any interference from the legislator in an ongoing process. But it is the same prosecutors who say: apart from the case, it is up to the legislator to come up with a move. There are a number of cases. It is noted that there are insufficient opportunities for prosecutors to prevent liquidations at all. Apart from the case now under way and independently of the appeal, I would think that we should not wait and see if measures can be taken now. My follow-up question is next. Can the Minister ask the Public Prosecutor to investigate this and then come back to the Minister at a time appropriate for the prosecution? I would urge the Minister to ask the Public Prosecutor's Office if the Public Prosecutor is already seeing solutions and is already seeing opportunities for action, starting with them. Will the Minister make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u4	That goes without saying. I have just said that I would like to ask the College of Attorney General to reflect on this at a time when it considers it appropriate. If it thinks it's appropriate already, that's fine with me. But I am not going to insist on that in my role, because I simply do not want to be influenced by what we are now dealing with, by what we are dealing with here. If the Public Prosecutor's Office, that is to say, not only these two prosecutors, but also the College of Attorneys General, were to believe that there is a specific problem that really needs to be resolved, it should be looked at very seriously as far as I am concerned. If that requires a legislative change, I'll be the last one not to want it. I think I can reassure Mr Van Oosten on that point, but the ball must now be at the College of Attorneys General, which has also noted this signal. This must be taken seriously when it is appropriate in the context of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u5	I have one final brief question for the Minister. Would the Minister please send us a brief note explaining when the Public Prosecutor's Office thinks it might be appropriate, so that we as Parliament can have some insight into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u6	The answer to that can be brief, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u7	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u8	We have just watched a play for two gentlemen in the context of the VVD election campaign. Looks like we're talking about a change of law on order. Here's what I want to ask the Minister. The D.A. says it doesn't get the evidence around and would like to have an easier burden of proof. Have we not just had a whole debate on errors in the budget of Security and Justice? Wasn't it said at the time that because of these errors, we need to look more closely at the evidence and the burden of proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u9	Let me say first of all that we had a good debate on errors in the budgetary procedure. We made some very nice arrangements about that. I can see those things separate from each other. Both officers' pleas show that they see bottlenecks. I am not going to go into that because I do not think that I should in any way influence the ongoing appeal with my opinion or my thoughts on it. I can see those two things apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u10	Second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u11	The Minister is undoubtedly familiar with the Birmingham Six and the Maguire Seven. Both date from a period when there were a lot of attacks in England. Then there was also a general appeal from prosecutors who said they couldn't get the convictions around. Then people have been in prison for a very long time, based on evidence that turned out not to be right. Is the Minister prepared, before we move to the Netherlands to facilitate the burden of proof in the preparation of a possible crime, to obtain at least all that information from that period in Great Britain?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u12	I do not think we need to look at Great Britain for legal errors. We have found in recent years that things have also gone wrong in the Netherlands. We didn't need any changes in the burden of proof; it happened in a compelling way. We have taken a series of measures, including facilitating the review to the benefit and the revision to the detriment, I would like to make this quite clear. This will of course be dealt with in a legislative amendment, but I have no reason to see a problem in advance, other than what we already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u13	Cocaine is currently pouring into the port of Rotterdam. The police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are shouting murder and fire that more powers must be given and that more room must be given to customs to stop this cocaine trade. They see this trade as an important cause of the liquidations we have in the Netherlands. We will have the debate on this next week. I think the Minister should take these sounds. My question is more specific. If these two prosecutors state that something must be done, I ask the Minister to use the intervening time to obtain additional information through the WODC or perhaps in another way, so that we can put it next to the information that the prosecutors bring. Then we can have the right debate at once. Can the Minister do this a little bit wider than just the sound of the D.A.'s office, no matter how important?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u14	That is going to happen automatically, because we are obviously not going to have ice in this kind of thing in one night. That is why I would like to hear the College of Attorneys General in broad terms about the experience of the Public Prosecutor's Office at a time when this is appropriate for the College in the context of the ongoing trial. I think this is the width Mrs Van Toorenburg is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u15	I have heard the Minister say to my satisfaction that he wants to wait for the appeal and allow the Supreme Court to speak before adding his own analysis to the analyses of that Supreme Court and the Public Prosecutor. Does the Minister agree with me that, by not prejudging that course of action, he wants to avoid the appearance that politics wants to change the law as soon as a judge makes uncomfortable statements? Does the Minister agree with D66 that politics should not do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u16	I disagree with Mrs. Swinkels. We saw very recently a number of examples... Let me give you the example of the problem raised by money laundering legislation. In practice, there was a signal that money laundering legislation created a major problem in the taking away of criminally acquired assets. That was a signal from practice, which we said: we are against it, there has been a case-law about it, there is case-law about it, including from the Supreme Court, which leads to a situation that we have never referred to as legislative power, i.e. as a parliament and government. We have said that we need to change that. So I do not agree with Mrs Swinkels that signals from practice cannot be transposed into legislation. In fact, I believe that the civil society of the cabinet, as well as the parliament, can expect action to be taken if a problem arises in the search and prosecution that is serious and serious. This is also happening very frequently in our history.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you.
