ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week the book De gascolie was published. This book shows how the gas game is played, over the heads of the Groningers. The book makes it painfully clear that the oil and gas industries have a far too big a finger in their decision-making. Where shareholders could enforce agreements at the Ministry, the interests of the residents of Groningen were not taken into account. This is not evident from the mail changes at Shell's headquarters, but from a note from the Ministry of EZ. That note was kept internally for a long time until the WOB request of journalists. This minister has taken the first step in reversing gas extraction, although according to the Christian Union it can do much faster and much more. That does not alter the fact that the revelations have provoked great indignation on the part of my group. The Groningers, and the Lower House as their representative, are out of play in making the gas agreements. I have the following questions. How does the Minister look back at the agreements that have been made? Does the Minister acknowledge that the Chamber has not been informed of the agreements made with Shell and Exxon on gas extraction? Does the Minister recognise that during the period he is the minister responsible, there was still a ceiling of 425 billion? After all, it is remarkable that in 2014-2015 exactly 2.5 cubic metres per year would have been left if the Chamber and the Minister had not intervened in recent years. My final question is whether it is true that the Chamber was not informed about the plans after 2015. Is it true that agreements have been made on catching up with production if a certain level of extraction is not achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. How do I assess the appointments made at the time? We need to find out what kind of agreements we're talking about. Two laws were applicable: the Gas Act and the Mining Act. The Gas Act intended that the gas that came from the small fields could be disposed of, at the time by GasTerra. It was therefore intended that the gas from Groningen would not be placed on the market in such a way that the small field gas could not be disposed of. For this purpose, Article 55 is included in the Gas Act. The Gas Act establishes a production ceiling for Groningen for a period of 10 years. This means that in those ten years' time we must not get above that ceiling. At most up to that ceiling may be extracted, with the intention of accommodating the small field gas. That follows from the Gas Act. I take decisions on the Groningenveld under the Mining Act. It says there has to be a extraction plan. On the basis of that extraction plan, I shall take an assent decision. On this basis, the gas can be extracted in Groningen. These are all legal provisions, which have been and are being applied in the past and now. Two facts show that the case is not really problematic. The first fact is that in recent years, every time I thought this had to happen, I had the opportunity to reduce gas extraction in Groningen. The second fact showing this is that Article 55 of the Gas Act on the ceiling would be repealed over a period of ten years with the Law STROOM. That law was killed in the First Chamber, but I will come forward with a replacement bill this year, which will also remove Article 55 from the Gas Act, because it has no meaning. What has meaning is what I do on the basis of the Mining Act. With that, with the extraction plan and the extraction decision, I can do whatever is necessary. I now turn to the information given to the Chamber. In 2005 the Chamber was informed of what could be won for the period 2005-2015 in Groningen. A decision was taken in 2010 for the period 2010 to 2020. That wasn't communicated directly with the Chamber. The law said it had to be done. It also happened in accordance with the law. It was a ceiling, but no separate letter was sent to the Chamber. I think it would have been obvious to do so. That is also the way in which normal communication is made. When it comes to information to the Chamber about the post-2015 period, Mrs Dik-Faber refers to a philosophy that has been expressed between Shell and ExxonMobil and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I find such a philosophy interesting, but such a philosophy can never stand in the way of applying the law. The provisions of the Gas Act and the Mining Act are clear and are being applied. I have applied this in recent years, with the well-known result, namely more than half a half of gas production.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister doesn't really mention the issue as problematic, but I think it is problematic. The Chamber was indeed aware of production ceilings, but the Chamber was not informed that there were agreements behind them with the oil and gas industry. The mail exchange of 2010 shows that the appointments didn't stop as of 2015. There's been an advance pumping of the Groningen field. As a result, we read, the Minister's space to reduce gas extraction is severely limited. The former Chairman of the Dialogue Table said that the shareholders Shell and ExxonMobil have also regularly flagged back the NAM in recent years. Does the Minister recognise these agreements, or are they no longer on the agenda? Does the Minister want to get to the bottom of what secret agreements have been made and what interests have been or have not been taken into account? I am thinking in particular of the interests of the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	Those agreements concerned the application of the Gas Act. It states that, over a period of 10 years, an average of a certain quantity per year may be obtained. That's the ceiling in the Gas Act. That philosophy is interesting when you discuss with each other the direction of gas extraction in Groningen for the long term. However, that philosophy cannot in any way prevent me from implementing the provisions of the Gas Act and the Mining Act. That's what I did. I do not think there is any serious restriction on the Minister's freedom of action. First of all, the Gas Act only deals with a ceiling, a ceiling. If I think that less gas should be extracted, the Mining Act gives me a very clear opportunity to decide. I need that opportunity, and I've taken advantage of it. I don't think there's any point in investigating secret agreements because no secret agreements have been made. The Gas Act has been applied. There has been philosophies about the future but in no way is it at issue that I cannot do what is necessary in the interests of the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	I think this is very serious. The Minister says that there are no secret agreements, but the WED documents show very clearly that the oil and gas industries have had far too big a finger on the level of extraction, on the extraction ceiling. That may or may not be denied by the Minister, but at least I would like to hear a response to it. The Minister refers to the amendments to the Gas Act, but soon this Chamber will also discuss the Mining Act. If anything is clear to me, it is that the Mining Act must be amended, including the Mining Act that is now before me. The gas building is hardly taken over by this minister while the influence of the fossil industry is simply still far too great. The interests of the Groningen people must be at the forefront of the new Mining Act. This applies not only to Groningen but also to all other locations in our country where gas extraction is involved. My group believes it is very important that the Chamber is fully informed. The Minister says there are no such agreements. I see a whole book full of appointments I wasn't aware of. I don't want to read those appointments in The Gas Colony. I would like the Minister to inform the Chamber of those appointments. It is important that this not only happens in the future, but also that the agreements that have been made in the past come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the gas level and was right to correct herself by talking about the gas ceiling. It is not the case that the amount of gas referred to in Article 55 has to be extracted for a period of ten years. That's the maximum that can be won. In practice, the Mining Act also applies. I have already explained: extraction plan and consent decision. If I think there's less to win, then there's just less to win. As for the influence of Shell and Exxon, the following. Shell and Exxon are companies that are of great importance for the energy supply in our country and for the gas extraction in Groningen. It is companies that are important for employment. We have a normal relationship with that. It discusses things that are important to us and to them, but as far as the impact on decision-making is concerned, I can say that I have been there for four years now in practice and there is no influence on Shell's and Exxon's decision-making. Influence on decision-making concerns the official advice I receive, the advice I receive from the State surveillance of the Mines and the advice I receive from the authorities in the area I speak with. In the end, a decision is taken by the cabinet, and all this is done in a pure way, applying the relevant legal provisions according to the letter and the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	I think a lot of Groningers were quite unpleasantly surprised by the results of this book. A WOB request is made and then it turns out that secret agreements have been made. At least that doesn't do the trust in Groningen any good. The CDA also has questions about this, in particular about production in 2013. In August 2012, there was an earthquake at Huizinge on which the State surveillance of the Mines then said that the extraction had to go down as quickly as realistic as possible. What will happen in 2013? Then there is quite a record win. If you take the 42 billion cube that you were allowed to win on average every year and you still reach 54 billion cube, that's pretty good. I therefore sincerely wonder to what extent those agreements that were secret at that time have had an impact on that hugely high extraction in 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	There was absolutely no secret agreement. Philosophies have been made about the future of a mining ceiling. A winning ceiling is therefore a maximum. Anything below that extraction ceiling can be done, but it can't be done up there. This has also been the case in practice. In a period of three years we have halved the gas extraction in Groningen and there was no so-called agreement that would stand in the way of that. I don't know anything about secret appointments. I only know about philosophies in the year 2005 about the longer term of gas extraction. I also think it is good that in a contact between a ministry and large companies working on such an important job, you think about the longer term ceiling. I think that's understandable. In 2013 I was only just in the Ministry. I received an opinion from SodM, but I found that there were insufficient data to base a decision on it. So I tried to get the data I needed as soon as possible and on that basis I made a decision. I didn't intervene in the production of gas in 2013. It came out higher because of fluctuations in the gas from the small fields and because of the cold winter. Those are the reasons. I can say from my own experience that in 2013 Shell and Exxon had no influence on the gas extraction at any time. The decision to conduct investigations first and only then to decide on the level of extraction was taken entirely by myself, at least the cabinet took that decision on my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	A second question from Mrs Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u10	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group wonders whether these secret agreements are now completely out of the question. After all, we have just seen a lobby document by Shell, which shows that it wants to produce as much as possible again. The Minister is getting a bit against these parties. How does the Minister see that and what do we have to do to prevent this appearance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u11	I do not understand why Mrs Mulder is talking again about agreements. No appointments have been made. In 2005, a production ceiling was set for 10 years and there was also a philosophy of the future. It happens. A philosophy for the future about a maximum of gas extraction is of course beautiful. At some point we felt that the extraction of gas should be reduced. Under existing laws and regulations, this was quite possible, and so it has been done. So there is no secret agreement at all, not even agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u12	The confidence of the Groningen people is now incredibly lost. The Minister said at the beginning of his reply in a subtle way that it might have been useful to send a letter to the Chamber to inform her about the ceilings. In fact, we have looked into the Acts and asked at least three times what the legal status of these ceilings was and whether they were off the table. The Minister has consistently replied that they would be gone with the STROOM Act and that they would no longer be relevant. This Minister has not at any time informed the Chamber that these ceilings are still the legal framework under the Gas Act. The Minister is always talking about a maximum, but what is left of the previous period is taken to the next period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u13	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u14	Does the Minister also consider that he has failed to properly inform the Chamber and answer the questions raised by GroenLinks about these ceilings? Is it true that the ceilings are indeed relevant and that they are not just a ceiling, because what is left under a previous ceiling is taken to a next ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u15	The fact that the ceilings are not relevant is demonstrated by the fact that we are now going to remove them from the law. The decisions I take on the basis of a proposed extraction plan are relevant to the level of gas extraction and therefore not the maximum ceilings. If you inform the Chamber in 2005 about a extraction ceiling for the next ten years, it is logical that you should also inform the Chamber if you decide again in 2010 for the ten years that go on. That didn't happen by letter back then. Later, I think, in 2014, I did talk about the extraction ceilings. For me, however, the relevance of these ceilings is very limited, precisely because it is a ceiling and because I look at what is responsible for winning maximum. If that's below the ceiling, that's too bad, but then it gets less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u16	This issue is so important to GroenLinks that we would like to address our two questions. The wobbled pieces may not be secret, but they are also not known to the Chamber. It is very clear from this that the oil companies consistently want a higher ceiling and also insist that non-produced gas is taken from a previous period. Once again, I asked specifically at three points about the production ceilings, about the surpluses from previous periods and about the discussions. The Minister cannot change what happened prior to his period, but he is responsible for it. Why didn't he put that right at any time in front of the Chamber? When is the Minister going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u17	With regard to Groningen, I have not kept anything from the Chamber at any time. I have been completely transparent, not just to the Chamber but to everyone, about what is going on in Groningen, what I think should happen, what I decide and what I decide on. Mrs Van Tongeren wants a surplus of a certain period to be added to the ceiling for the next period. I love all that, but it's still a ceiling. If I think it should stay down there, then it stays down there too, because my mode allows me to do so. I've proven in practice that's how I act. In addition, I have made it clear that these ceilings are no longer relevant by submitting a legislative proposal to remove the relevant provision from the Gas Act. I think it has been completely insightful for the Chamber, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u18	As my colleagues have pointed out, this Minister has reduced the extraction of gas. But the essence of today's case is that in 2010 his predecessor did not fully inform the Chamber about the arrangements made. As far as I am concerned, it is now a question of how we explain that between 2010 and 2013, in which the first reduction decisions were taken, you have not in any way been influenced by the agreements made for 2010. Can you remove any doubt about that? Has there not been any briefing in which it has been said that we feel bound because we have made agreements that have not yet been communicated to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr Vos refers to the Minister for Economic Affairs. I myself took up this position in November 2012. No agreements have been made on this point. The law states that for a period of ten years, a decision must be taken on what can be maximum extracted from Groningen, with the aim of ensuring that the gas coming from the small fields is marketed by GasTerra, with Shell and Exxon in charge of the Empire. So it was the small fields. Thus, a ceiling on the Groningen gas field has been imposed, but in practice it has been found that this ceiling was not sufficient. We had to stay down there. There were good reasons for that. This is why new extraction plans have been made and a new assent decision has been taken. On this basis gas extraction has been halved over the last three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u20	The minister says no secret agreements have been made. When I look at 329 pages of WOB documents published by the NOS, I read, for example, in an e-mail or a letter dated 2 December 2005: "We reached an agreement on 26 November 2005. I hereby confirm this on the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I would like to receive a written confirmation from your side that these documents also reflect the agreement reached with you." I think an agreement is the same as an agreement. How does the Minister respond to that? He says there are no secret documents at all, but in those documents I come across several times the word "confidential." I think that means confidential. In this context it means: secret. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u21	In 2005, the Chamber was informed about the ceiling for the next ten years. That ceiling for the next ten years has been set with the aim of ensuring that the gas from the small fields can be disposed of on the market. It makes sense for you to talk to whoever's going to talk to you about that. In this case, GasTerra, half of the Empire and half of Shell and Exxon. Then you determine what the ceiling for the Groningenveld is to ensure that you can take all the gas out of the small fields and turn it off. That has been discussed and something has emerged. That ceiling's been fixed. Essentially, it's a ceiling. It's not like that amount has to be won at all costs. No, it's about the maximum that can be won, just because of the importance of the small fields. GasTerra is no longer needed for the gas from the small fields, which has been halved anyway. This gas is also deposited on the gas market TTF. That's where free sales are possible. The ceiling as such has always had a limited meaning, because it was only a ceiling. It has no meaning at all now, also because of the practice of recent years. That is why I propose that the whole article should be deleted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u22	Mr Wassenberg, this will be your second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u23	It is an interesting summary, but I have not received an answer to my question as to what agreements have been made with industry. Business has looked at commercial interests and investment options, but the potential dangers for Groningen were also known as earthquakes at that time. I don't read a word. My question is not how these ceilings were created, but what secret agreements have been made with industry? That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u24	I have responded several times to the supposed secret agreements and agreements. I can't do that again. I can only say that it was about ensuring that the gas in Groningen would not stand in the way of the extraction and disposal of the small field gas. We had to agree on this: at what maximum level of gas extraction in Groningen can you guarantee that the gas from the small fields will be disposed of? That has been discussed, and that has resulted in a result. The ceiling is set for ten years. The Chamber has been informed of this. There's nothing else to worry about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u25	Recently I was in Loppersum with colleague Ulenbelt and 50 SP'ers. That gave us the opportunity to ring almost everywhere, given the size of the village. There is a lot of recovery going on, I admit it right away, but we have also been in front of many crying people. And then you're in the middle of the area where quite a lot of recovery is already taking place. We are here on a weekly basis with a request for the forthcoming debate to be extended because of new facts. Now this is gonna be okay. A parliamentary survey could well be the result of this accumulation of facts. Is the minister sure he knows everything? Is he sure there aren't any powers he can't control? He's now saying that no secret appointments have been made, and maybe it'll turn out that there are. If I were him, I'd be a little careful with the words he chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u26	I am standing here and not yet Mr Smaling, so I choose my own words. I have to say, I haven't noticed any influence. If one has tried to influence me, I find that very interesting, but I still make my own decisions, for which I am responsible. Again, it wasn't even tried to influence me. About what happened in the past, I say I know the culture of the government in the past. I believe that the officials are doing their best to prepare the decisions of those responsible for this. Once these decisions have been taken, they will try to ensure that these decisions are properly implemented. That's the way our officials work. I have studied this matter. This is not about secret agreements to win as much as possible from Groningen. The point is that there are public agreements to implement Article 55 of the Gas Act, which states that a maximum quantity may be obtained from Groningen. This was relevant in 2005 and in 2010. In the meantime, there are many other things that are relevant, and we have discussed them many times over the past year. The result is that the extraction of gas is halved, despite agreements that there would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u27	If I take the 2005 philosophies against the concrete actions of this minister in relation to the gas decisions taken, can I conclude that the Groningers were more interested in the concrete actions of this minister than in the 2005 philosophies? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u28	A brief response, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u29	Then I suggest that if I had been there at the time, it would have been different and that if those who were there at the time were in my place today, it would have been different. I don't know. All I know is that I myself am convinced that they have done their job as conscientiously as I do, on the basis of the information and insights that were there at the time. I do not want to give a judgment, let alone a negative opinion, on my predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you.
