ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the members. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. You just said it: it's about an experimental law. When I read that, I immediately thought of the old Adenauer. He once won the election with the beautiful slogan "Keine Experimente." He was right about that. Mr Adenauer was the Prime Minister of West Germany. That was a long time ago, but it brings me to today's theme. In fact, I am hesitant about the experiments resulting from this experimental law. We're discussing the possibility of coming up with variants of ballots. It's about three variants. The first variant is that we get a ballot on an A4'. Above are the various party names from which we can choose, with the logo attached. There's numbers at the bottom. The voter is supposed to vote for a party, of course, and then make a box red of a person in question. I think that's weird. I checked it out again with people here in the building who know how to do it. We still seem to be honourable Members, although this has not been recorded anywhere. That's very interesting: it doesn't say anything, but we still are. That is, of course, the result of the fiction "Let's just call it "state law" that there is a direct relationship between us as elected and voters. Our seats are ours too, I'll say. They are not our party and not our group. We have had all kinds of discussions in the past, including in this committee, about separation and division. A lot of those who are separated, I look at Mr Klein with an oblique eye, making the point "nothing is separated, because the seat is simply of the chosen person'. According to state law, that's true. State law is based on a direct relationship between us and the electorate. Yeah, of course that's a fiction. Get out on the street and ask for the name of a number of MPs. There won't be many of them. However, it is a basis for our voting rights. By taking our names off the ballots, that relationship is actually denied and we have become some sort of number. I find that a strange construction, because we must assume that the people go to the ballot box to make Mr Van Raak's or anyone else's box red because they want to see that person sitting there. I don't think it's right to reduce the choice to numbers. It also has all kinds of practical disadvantages. For example, what do you do when people do the party, but not fill out the number? It is also a bit strange to assume that people at home are looking at what song they want to vote at and that they will then be able to reproduce that song in the polling station. I would like to point out the many complaints made by people who have forgotten their PIN because this often causes problems. There are still two variants of ballots. Between variant 2 and variant 3 there is a graphical difference, but it is mainly about taking the ballot away from something. From a display, as it's literally called. I think that's a strange construction. The fact that you need to take something is at odds with Article J15 of the Tickets Act which states that the voting secret is guaranteed. I would like to hear from the Minister how this is guaranteed in that variant. Do I have to go into a tent or whatever, and how does that work? In Sweden, Norway is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, but I think this is also happening in Sweden, where you should just take something from a table open and bare. A sister party of my party, the Swedish Democrats, has a big problem with that. It's a controversial party, and anyone can see what you're voting. We don't have to go that way. I'm listening with interest to the Minister's opinion on this. In the 53 seconds I have left, I would like to point out to the honourable Members that we are still referring to an amendment that I tabled this afternoon. This is about the number of people you're allowed to put on a list. If you have less than 15 seats now, that's limited to 50. So you can't file a longer list. If you have more than 15 seats, you can go up to 80. Article H6 of the Kieswet is a somewhat archaic article and separates parties from more or less 15 seats. This dates back to 1989. At that time, you had a clear distinction between small parties and large parties. That was actually decades fixed and that border was rock hard. There was hardly any volatility in the electoral market at the time. Parties either won a few seats or lost a few; that was actually what always happened. Now you see that the distinction between large and small parties no longer exists and you also see enormous volatility in the electoral market. In other words, it sometimes goes up or down with dozens of seats at the same time in the polls, but also in elections. I think it is a good thing that we draw one line and that each party should have the opportunity to submit electoral lists of 80 people. I would point out that parties that are still large in some polls are under 15 seats. That can happen to all of us, and it happens to all of us. So it would be good to just draw one line. My amendment should now be in the inboxes of my fellow Members. I hope they look at it with an open eye. I hear from the minister that it hasn't arrived yet, but then it's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u3	I just checked this out, too. The amendment has not yet been circulated, but we know that it is coming, and we will therefore look into it. I am now told that Mr Van Raak already has the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u4	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is somewhat surprised at the bill that the Minister sent to the Chamber and that we are discussing here today. In the explanatory memorandum of a previous legislative proposal of 2013, which established the possibility of experimenting with other types of ballots for voters abroad, the Minister of the Interior wrote to the Chamber: "The government has considered including in this proposal the possibility of experimenting with a new model ballot for voters in the Netherlands. However, it prefers to work towards the possible (re) introduction of electronic voting in the voting room. This ambition makes it irresponsible to invest in a new model ballot and in the technology to count these ballots electronically. This is why the government is abandoning these experiments at this stage." What is the Minister doing in 2016? He himself presents a bill on ballots instead of a bill on electronic voting. Why? Why? What happened between 2013 and now? Why did the Minister earlier announce to work on electronic voting and, more importantly, he stated that it was not justified to invest in a new model ballot, to do exactly that? It feels a bit like pimping a Trabant instead of investing in a new, modern electric car. I would like to hear from the Minister why he is working on improvements to a 1.0 system rather than working on a real modernisation of the voting process and taking the step towards the 2.0 era. The Minister proposes to work with a double vote: a vote on a party and a vote on a candidate. This seems innocent, but it is not de facto, because it introduces an official party vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u5	Mr Van Raak has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u6	To get it clear: the voting machine will not be available for the time being, because it is not safe. Personally, I don't think it can ever be safe, but if it can, it's gonna take a long time, maybe decades. Does that actually mean that you can't change anything about the ballot for the next few decades, because the VVD thinks that you can only change that if there's a voting machine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u7	I do not agree with Mr Van Raak's analysis. I do not think it will take decades for us to vote in a different way than we do now. We are also discussing an initiative proposal from our colleague, Mr Taverne, as a Chamber at the moment. I hope that we can go so far together that this will achieve a majority, because then we can work together. The market says: we want to develop something, but then there has to be a law, because without the law we are not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u8	Mr Taverne's bill is not about voting machines to vote, but about electronic counting of paper ballots. That's a whole different thing. In fact, I believe that the Minister is also making this proposal with a view to enabling electronic counting of paper ballots. In this sense, I see the Minister's proposal as a kind of service to the VVD and Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u9	Then the question remains as to why the Minister himself did not come up with a proposal to start counting electronically. You may need a slightly different ballot for that, but that proposal has not been made. A Member of Parliament had to make an initiative proposal to take that step. Here is an experimental proposal to modify the ballot, but to what end? I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u10	Mr Veldman says he is surprised at this law. I think that's amazing. Mr Veldman draws the comparison with Trabantjes. I don't think that's a compliment. Is there any possibility that the VVD Group will vote against this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u11	Why don't I just make my contribution and then we'll draw some conclusions? Otherwise, I might as well say yes or no and then sit down again. I think it is fair to state the background to the VVD's view of this bill. Then we'll see what we're getting ourselves into.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u12	Okay, we'll keep it exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u13	I had stayed with the double voice, which seems innocent, but de facto introduces an official party vote. The Election Council also notes in its opinion that there is such a sneak-out vote in our electoral system. That is a fundamental change in the way in which we have organised elections in our country. The question to the Minister is therefore: how does this relate to the Election Act and perhaps also to the Constitution? There is also a risk, in substance, that if two boxes have to be coloured, even more invalid votes will be cast than is already the case. At the mayor's election in London a few weeks ago, a ballot was used which required two markings, with the result that 25% of the votes cast were declared invalid. How does the Minister weigh this risk of invalid votes, looking at his experimental proposal? The Minister suggested that ballots should be provided with photographs of candidates. Yesterday, the Chamber received a letter of amendment stating that it is not intended to work with photos on ballot papers. What brought the Minister to this very late amendment of the bill? By the way, I understand this change, because what exactly is the added value of a photo on a ballot? What kind of problem does the Minister think we're gonna solve? A person who votes in favour does so because he knows someone on the list, because someone is a regional or local person or because someone is the highest woman on the list. These are all cases where a picture adds little. For me, the question remains whether we are done with this change in the use of photos. No photos on the ballot; that is clear now. But there are no names of candidates on the ballot, either. There will be a list in the voting booth with the names of the candidates and perhaps also photos. Do they include photos? Can the Minister rule out the possibility that photos will be printed on those lists that will be placed in the voting booths? If no, the letter of amendment does not change anything de facto. Then the risk of using a photo simply remains. Aside from the fact that elections are not a beauty contest, the question needs to be asked as to the effect of using photos on the electoral behaviour. The unconscious psychological effect of the photos must not be underestimated: the position of the eyes, the angle of the photo, the colour, close or far away. The Opinion of the Election Council also explicitly states that facial features of candidates in photographs have a significant impact on the election results. What did the Minister do with this advice? Did he have himself investigated the effect of photos on voting behaviour? Can he exclude risks of unconscious psychological effects that may affect voting behaviour? If he can't, why include this risk in the voting process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u14	Thank you. I see that the Minister is eager to respond once in a while, but he will have to wait for the Chamber's term, because we still have a number of speakers. The following is Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u15	Mr. Chairman. The Minister wants to experiment with a new model for the ballot, because this will make it easier and faster to count, and this will also result in fewer errors. I see this law as an addition to the initiative law of Mr Taverne of the VVD, who wants to do an experiment with the electronic counting of paper ballots. If you want to do that, we can't work it out with the books we have now, but we're gonna have to do it smaller. I see the Minister's proposal in that light, but perhaps he can explain it himself. I proposed to the Minister a few years ago to put the parties' logos on the ballot papers. I have seen this in India and in the Antilles, for which the Minister and I have a shared love. You really just have to hang a flag of a certain color out there, because then everyone knows which party you are for. We do not have that tradition, but our parties do have very clear logos. I always thought it was weird that they weren't on our books of electoral lists. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister has taken over this and that he is going to do so. I understand that this also applies to photos of candidates, but that makes me a lot less happy. What the hell is that? We have an open list system, and none of the spokesmen here has got enough votes to get a seat on their own. If I am right, about 70,000 votes are needed for this, and none of us are going to get anywhere near that. We have been elected to a political group through a list and on behalf of a political party, and we are therefore the spokesman on that party's behalf. That is our system and although political parties have not been appointed as such in the Constitution, they do play a central role in our politics and in our elections. I think if you're gonna have to put pictures on ballots, it's gonna be a lot of trouble, 'cause look at all these pictures. I sometimes see group lists of political parties, and if the photos on them are not all about the same, it really doesn't look like it is and you can't make sense of it at all. To avoid that, we should all go to a photographer, but who then collects those photos? None of that's gonna work. Let me just say that I think it is evidence of inappropriate vanity, and that is a mortal sin in politics. In short, I am against it. When I was typing an amendment yesterday, I heard a blip and then I saw a letter of amendment coming in! It just came out of the sky, but I was very happy with it, because it means that those photos are being deleted. However, it did not contain a very broad explanation and I am curious about that. After all, the Minister has extensively defended in the documents why these photographs are so important, and now a communication is suddenly saying that this is not the case. Once again, I very much agree, but perhaps the Minister can explain it a little. I also have the same question as Mr Veldman: does 'no photos' actually mean 'no photos'? Or does this mean that we may not have to beat up the circus for the ballot, but rather for the paper that people get at home or that hangs on the wall of the polling station? If that's the case, it's best we don't do it at all. I can see the Minister nodding, so I assume we'll hear his response to that later. Mr Veldman also pointed out the possible influence of photos; something the Election Council also emphasised. The Minister has presented us with three models, two of which are strictly contrary to voting secrecy. It is extremely prone to fraud if you have to pick up a piece of paper yourself from a delay and then deposit it somewhere at a polling station. I am therefore very happy with the choice for model 1 because that looks fine. According to that model, you first choose a list, a party, and then a candidate. If that goes wrong, because, for example, someone has filled out the list, the party, but not the candidate, it does not matter, because it is still valid. At least I understood that. It is also possible to vote on a non-existent candidate. I found it interesting to read that that voice also counts. Mr Bosma pointed it out. You can have up to 80 people on the list, but not all parties will have 80 candidates. Theoretically, it is possible that someone in a list with only 50 candidates ticks box 53. Then he votes for a non-existent candidate, but then that vote counts, because then the vote goes to the number one on the list. I think that's a fine arrangement. I shall look at Mr Bosma's amendment with great interest and with a very positive basic attitude. I am glad that we are going to experiment with the first model, also because of low-literate, blind voters and others with visual or other limitations. I have seen an amendment by Mrs Voortman to tighten that up. I wholeheartedly support that amendment. I also agree with a great deal today, Mr President-in-Office, that we are not going to do this experiment on Bonaire, Saba and Statia, for the simple reason that it is not necessary. We are talking about very few votes, so they are all counted a little earlier. But especially when it comes to logos and the like, I have to say that they had done it better on Bonaire, Saba and Statia. It's much brighter, especially for the lowly. Whether it is always clear for people with disabilities is the question, but for low-literate people it is clear. There are very clear colours for parties and they are also clearly on the ballots. So we can learn more from them than they can from us. Finally, I come to the number of municipalities in which this will take place. According to the Minister, this experiment will only be held in a few municipalities. I am curious how many municipalities are involved, because such an experiment must be a bit substantial. I am also curious whether this experiment will take place at the next national elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u16	Mr. Chairman. The right to vote is the foundation of our democracy. Renewals in the voting process are therefore, very understandable, accompanied by a great deal of caution. GroenLinks finds it logical that far-reaching innovations are first tested on a small scale. Having said that, I am beginning to be impatient about our outdated way of voting. It is not yet obvious in the Netherlands that everyone can vote. Less than 25% of the polling stations are accessible. As regards GroenLinks, therefore, changes in the voting process should focus on accessibility. This experiment should also be used to see how we can achieve a 100% accessible voting process as soon as possible. After all, we have laid this down for a reason in the legislation on the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. We are not just concerned with physical accessibility. People should be able to vote as much as possible. In a period of far-reaching digitization, we are still messing with a red pencil. This is not only an inconvenience for all of us, but for some of us it is also a serious obstacle to voting. For people with disabilities, especially for people with visual disabilities, voting is not as self-evident as it is for most of us. You can take someone into the voting booth, or you can ask someone from the polling station for help. That is a strange situation, because the secret of voting is so denied to the blind and visually impaired. The Minister wants to make experiments with new ballots possible. He shall leave the electronic vote to his successor. It is, of course, nice if counting the votes can be faster and ballots can become clearer, but GroenLinks is not yet convinced that the model the government now chooses will ensure this. The letter of amendment yesterday showed that the Minister wants to move forward with model 1 and drop the other options. I wonder if the test that has been carried out with this is representative of people voting from abroad. A voting booth is not the same as a kitchen table. Aren't there a lot of highly educated expats among foreign voters who can read and write well? The model chosen by the Minister does not seem to respond to the violation of the secret of voting that some people with disabilities are now having to endure. Isn't working with multiple papers in the voting booth just more confusing for people with, for example, intellectual disabilities? I'd like to hear a reflection from the Minister on that. GroenLinks does not agree if we do not allow any changes to the ballot to be accompanied by a movement towards full accessibility. That is why I have tabled an amendment to regulate this. I sincerely hope for the Minister's warm support for this. Finally, I would like to say something about electronic voting. Unfortunately, I could not be in the process of discussing Mr Taverne's initiative law, but let me say here that GroenLinks wants to vote electronically as quickly as possible and as safely as possible. This is good for the electorate's convenience, good for counting the votes, but also, above all, good for accessibility for disabled people. I know that the Minister has the option of voting machines and voting printers examined by a committee and that he will not do anything with it in his term of office. I ask him to look at another option, namely digital voting. A lot of work is being done on pilots for a new DigiD system, Idensys. Is it also being considered in these pilots whether it is possible to regulate voting in these systems in the future? After all, why should we do our registration for organ donation digitally and not vote in elections? Is the Minister prepared to investigate whether this can also be included in pilots?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u17	The amendment that Mrs Voortman mentioned is the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u18	Mr. Chairman. The electoral system is at the heart of our democracy, and that means that the anchoring of the system in our Constitution must also be respected. That is the basis that cannot be violated if we want citizens to maintain their trust in our democracy. From this point of view, a little experimenting with our electoral system is morally reprehensible. The exercise of the right to vote is such a fundamental right of all Dutch people that no part of them should ever be used as guinea pigs. Of course, any changes to an electoral system are part of a living democracy, but the principle of equality should be paramount. If something is going to change, each voter must have to deal with it. It is undesirable to subject only a certain, small number of citizens to an experiment as a result of this bill. This probably also happens without the people concerned having a choice; they just happen to live in the municipality of the experiment. A completely different point is that we read the test results from the report that was finished at the end of April and sent to the Chamber at the beginning of 6 May. Those results have been interpreted and presented. In the accompanying letter, the Minister suggests that the tests with the new ballot have shown very positive results. After reading the same report, however, my group reached a very different conclusion. A brief sketch of the facts and the fiction. Compared to previous trials in November 2012, the percentage of declared invalid votes decreased from 14.2 to only 1.8 during the November 2015 trial, as can be seen in that letter. But then you don't seem to be properly informed, Mr President, I took the wrong page because you have a different percentage. Mr President, I believe that my papers are mixed up and that would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u19	Give them a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u20	Yeah, that sounds like a good idea, too. The results are much lower and the percentages are very different, so in fact you do not have an invalidity rate. The investigation takes account of the fact that 18% of the votes are actually invalid because they are only on a list. That would mean you have a much higher number of invalid votes. The practice of the current ballot should be a better indication of how motivated voters are able to cast a valid vote. At the Ukraine referendum, for example, 32% of voters came to the ballot box. If you weren't motivated, then it was very easy to stay at home as one of the 68% other voters. Even motivated voters could fill two things with a single mark, even if only one box had to be filled in. It was not easy to fill in this ballot correctly. The staggering result was that the number of invalid ballots with 38,004 was higher than the total turnout in Tilburg, the fifth largest municipality in this country, with 36,657 voters. The Netherlands would be too small at the moment when all the ballots of the municipality of Tilburg would end up in the wastebasket. That seems to me to be a very bad thing. I come to the visual possibilities. Will this ballot give voters sufficient opportunities to actually vote properly? The question is, what is the problem of this moment with the people in it? With the proposed system we get a whole mess, which in fact gives away the secret of voting. Why be complicated? Shouldn't you skip all kinds of steps and just go into the voting booth with a ballot? Then you ask for confidence that things are going well. In addition, the process has a high content "how to teach a monkey a trick." Blind and visually impaired voters aren't monkeys. Then why should we treat them like that? My group finds it downright insulting to teach them a trick in this way as if they were circus performers. In addition, the proposed methodology applies only to a proxy chooser. Any other voter may at the end have doubts about his final choice. For blind and partially sighted voters there is also room for this with the current legislation. However, this bill deprives them of the possibility of determining their vote only at the hour. This bill actually forces them to make the choice sooner. They are therefore obliged to indicate the choice they wish to make before going to the polling station. This means that voters with disabilities should not be allowed to float and go to the polling station unprepared. That distinction with other voters is hard to explain. A fundamental point is the so-called 'list voting'. This is taken into account in Belgium. Has the Minister also looked at the international situation, for example in Belgium? There is currently a discussion on the possible abolition of the list vote. It is perhaps becoming more of a party system than a system with independent Members of Parliament. Research shows that the electorate does have an eye for the work and qualities of individual Members of Parliament. Good working MPs have a good chance of being elected, one of the conclusions of a report by Ghent University and the Catholic University of Leuven at the end of 2015. That is why it is rather strange that this bill again places the emphasis on lists, on parties. After all, we are going to go on to 'party-cracy' instead of individual, independent representatives of the people, to party representatives and not to representatives of the people who stand in the clay. That is also the most fundamental objection I have to the legislative proposal. In the note following the report, the Minister refers to Articles 53 and 129 of the Constitution, which deal with proportional representation. Next, Hoppa is referred to Article 59 of the Constitution, which states that it must be further developed in the Tickets Act. This completely ignores the basic principles of the Constitution that elected elected representatives of the people who can operate without burden during elections. It is constitutionally anchored that people, candidates and not parties should be voted on. It begins with Article 4 of the Constitution that every Dutch citizen has the right to choose the members of a representative body equally. Voters should therefore actually vote for people rather than parties. Next, we have Article 54 of the Constitution, which explicitly states that the members of the Chamber are directly elected by the Dutch. This means that we are not elected through parties, but directly by the electorate. The starting point of this law is the possibility of a list vote and of a preferred vote. I believe that this is contrary to Articles 4 and 54 of the Constitution. That is the only reason why we should not begin this experiment. Then we still have the typical situation that you can vote for candidates who do not exist via this ballot. That has just been pointed out. There are 80 booths, but one batch could have filled out a lot less booths. That actually allows you to vote for ghost candidates. That does not seem to me to be the intention, and that is something we must combat. Then it is not wise to introduce the present ballot. I have read with interest Mr Bosma's amendment. We need to discuss this. This has also been taken into account in the legislative proposal on the abolition of electoral circles before the Chamber. We need to see how we can combine this. Mr Bosma has a point to make. In conclusion, I would like to hear from the Minister why he wants to stick to this odious system of party voting. The new ballot will not improve democracy, but will lead to impoverishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u21	Mr. Chairman. It will be 54 years since I entered the voting booth for the first time. To avoid misunderstandings about my age, that was my father's. I had just learned to read a few letters. I looked around the little box with big eyes. The curtain closed. On my toes I could see that there was a large leaf that was folded out. There was a pencil attached to a chain. There was a sign on the wall. I never forgot. That is why I would like to quote the text: 'Don't moisten the pencil'. This evokes some emotion, I see. You're gonna have a tendency to add disinfectant wipes. This already indicates that we have been working with the red pencil for a long time. I'm not that old yet, but it's been a long time anyway. Each voter must search for the candidate of his or her choice on a large ballot. The same large ballot will then be folded out late in the evening or less late in order to determine which party and which candidate received the vote. The SGP can well imagine that the Minister is looking for ways to simplify this. We welcome this starting point. However, the important conditions of the elections must of course be met. It is crucial that voting secrecy is maintained and that the elections continue to be fair. Today's proposal is actually very simple. In some municipalities it is possible to experiment with a different ballot. It is really only a ballot that improves speed and reliability in the polling room. The choice of option 1 seems to be the most straightforward in this respect. The SGP is in favour of this. During the election of the European Parliament, this experiment has already been carried out for voters abroad. It should not be too easy to argue that the lower number of invalid votes was a result of another banknote. The government itself states that in the past a substantial part of the invalid votes were caused by the wrong colour of the pencil. So we should not be too wealthy with regard to wrongly cast votes. Much more importantly, it must be clear to everyone whether or not a vote is valid. In this context, it is striking that the election of the European Parliament resulted in one out of three invalid votes being voted on an invalid number on a list. Moreover, those votes were only 13, so it is possible to determine the extent of the damage at that time, so they did not count for the result. In the present proposal, the Minister also proposes, at our request, that a vote on a wrong number be based on a vote on the list. So it's a single choice. That choice is arbitrary, but in our opinion it is justified. After all, it is quite clear that the person concerned intended to vote on that list, even if he was mistaken in the candidate's number. The SGP therefore expressly asks the Minister to confirm that it makes a different choice to the experiment on the election of the European Parliament. On the new ballot, people must tick two boxes in total. That could be confusing for the voter. Twice ticking gives of course more risk of error than just ticking one box. In our view, this must be dealt with by proper information. Hence the question to the Minister how he intends to organise the information in such a way that all voters of the Netherlands and hopefully all prospective voters of the Netherlands, at least those who participate in the experiment, can see how you can vote. In the letter of amendment, the Minister states that he does not intend to work with a photo ballot. The parts that deal with this have therefore been deleted. This raises the question at the SGP as to how the aim of the bill, namely the promotion of self-voting, will be achieved by this bill. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this point. Isn't the use of photos an opportunity to meet people with intellectual disabilities, for example?I know that the Minister has warm attention for this group of people with dyslection? The Minister says that an experiment with electronic voting is still too complex. Can the Minister say what he thinks is the time when electronic voting can be adopted? At this time of electronics, all kinds of gadgets and new developments you would wish for. The SGP appreciates the cautious design of the experiment and looks forward to the Minister's response to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u22	Mr. Chairman. This bill makes it possible to use a new ballot with a limited experiment. The new banknote should be easier to count and more manageable and accessible to voters. In concrete terms, the proposal will be experimented with model 1. This is the model ballot that is also preferred by the VNG, the Election Council and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs. The ballot now proposed is the result of earlier tests with three different banknotes. Two of them fell off. One banknote was actually used in the last election, namely by the electorate abroad in the election of the European Parliament. This showed that counting went a lot faster and that there were much less invalid votes. The banknote is smaller, easier to handle in the voting booth and accessible to low-lettered people. In addition, it lends itself to using a mould with palpable information for voters with visual impairment. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it is therefore fine that we are going to experiment and that the current ballot is being replaced. After all, we can discuss what might not be good about the experiment, but we can also discuss what might not be good about the current ballot. We can say that we prefer a voting machine, but as long as that voting machine isn't there yet, we will have to do something. So we are fine with the Minister saying: let me experiment and let us actually look at how things work in practice. I actually thought we'd have a pretty simple afternoon today. I thought, it's a small law, so it can't cause that much fuss. But then again, the world is often very different than you think. It almost seemed to be about conflict with the Constitution today, but I have a feeling that the Election Council has also looked at the proposal. Of course, so did the Council of State. Are these elements also discussed by the Election Council and the Council of State? If there is such a discrepancy between the Constitution and the new ballot, I would suspect that it is almost up to the Election Council to comment on this. The PvdA has not seen such a remark, but I would like to hear it from the Minister. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, we are going to experiment with a new ballot. Let us really make sure that a lot of people can make use of their right to vote. Mrs. Voortman made the same appeal. Let us do our stinking best and let us make sure that the ballot becomes truly accessible to several people if in practice that ballot is not actually accessible to everyone. The PvdA Group is in favour of the bill. I await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u23	Mr. Chairman. The voting process is at the heart of our democratic system. Measures to make the electorate's voting process more accessible and understandable should be encouraged. In the opinion of the CDA Group, however, this proposal does not contribute to this. Although this proposal simplifies the counting of votes, it complicates the voting process. We're going from one to two acts. The names of candidates disappear from the ballot, which makes that ballot, especially at the bottom, more like a toto form. In the opinion of the CDA Group, this reduces accessibility. All models described in the explanatory memorandum make a distinction between list and candidate. Is this in line with Articles 53 and 54 of the Constitution? There is an explicit reference to'members are elected' rather than 'lists are chosen'. The Minister proposes to experiment with model 1, in which both the choice for the list and the choice for the candidate should be ticked separately. In addition, in the opinion of the CDA Group, there is the risk of a large number of invalid votes if only the candidate is ticked. Last week there was talk in the Chamber about experiments with electronic voting. We will continue this debate on Thursday. In response to a question from the CDA Group, the Minister replied that the current legislative proposal does not provide a legal basis for electronic voting. However, ballots have been developed with a view to the possible introduction of electronic voting or counting. In the explanatory memorandum we read that tests were conducted in December 2015 to electronically vote with these ballots. Can the Minister reflect on the results of these tests? How does the development and implementation of these new ballots relate to the progress of the experiments on electronic voting and counting? In the report, the CDA Group asked for experiments with electronic voting in the municipality of Nissewaard. The Minister replied that the Ministry of BZK did not carry out any experiments at the redeployment election in Nissewaard. That surprised us, because the AD announced in November 2014 that six polling stations in Nissewaard could also be voted electronically. Didn't the Minister know about this, or has this experiment been evaluated yet? Can the Minister reflect on the outcome of this evaluation? If the citizens then voted and filled out the form, where will it end up? In the Netherlands it still ends up in a garbage can or clique. How does the Minister view this? Can he do anything about this in the future? Can we get rid of the klickos at the polling stations? Finally. The CDA Group believes that the legislative proposal before us makes the voting process unnecessarily complicated. The CDA Group attaches great importance to the link between the electorate and the elected party, as mentioned in Articles 53 and 54. An experiment within the electoral process that threatens to undermine it and disassemble these two cannot really count on our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u24	Mr. Chairman. The right to vote is the foundation of democracy, as many colleagues have pointed out to me. That must remain well arranged, but we also want to modernise it. Electronic voting should be possible at some point, provided that it can take place safely and the privacy is properly secured. If even the SGP is in favour of this, at least we will be a long way away from that. Now we can see when we can make that possible! At the moment, it's about experimenting with a new model of ballots. Experimenting also means learning and staying curious about improvements. From this point of view, I think it is important to explore these possibilities, especially if the new model is intended to be easily accessible. Model 1 has been chosen for voting on the list and on the person. The key issue here is whether you will not hit the Constitution by voting on the list as well. Ladies and gentlemen have also indicated this, but one is curious enough to try it anyway, while the other does not want to start it. You're gonna step away from the right to vote? My party would not want that to happen, because that is at the heart of the Constitution. Is this experiment going to affect the Constitution and thus the core of the right to vote? Has the Election Council advised on this? I've read the Council of State's opinion. The Council of State does not say in so many words that this may lead to a problem, but I have not been able to read the Opinion of the Election Council. Perhaps the Minister has some insight into that. Is this a problem? How does the Minister intend to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u25	That is a very good question to the Minister, similar to the one I just asked. I wonder what the Minister's gonna answer. Perhaps I could visualize with Mrs Koşer Kaya the banknote that the Minister is going to use now. There is a list of party numbers, possibly with a logo. You're gonna cross one of those parties. Then you have to check a second booth for a candidate. If you don't, people would be able to forget that second booth, because everyone is used to ticking something once.You automatically voted for that party. If you visualize it this way, doesn't it mean that we are going to do what Mrs Koşer Kaya is afraid of, namely a party vote instead of a person vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u26	I am very curious with Mr Veldman about the Minister's answers. I hope he can clarify this. Moreover, the current system will result in 95% voting for the first on the list. That does not alter the fact that it is still a person's right to vote. I don't want to get into that. Hence the question I asked the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u27	I understand the comparison that Mrs Koşer Kaya makes that most people vote on the listers. Perhaps a lot of parties have a very good list leader, my party certainly does in the last elections. Visualize it. You got the bill. You don't cross the second booth, but only the party where that party's number is. Then you've done de facto what Mrs. Koşer Kaya doesn't want. I can't see it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u28	It's a fair question. That is why I am curious about the advice of the Election Board. I want to know exactly what has been advised on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u29	Mrs Koşer Kaya is afraid that our personal system will be compromised. We do not have a personal system at all, but an open list system: parties draw up lists and voters can change the order of the list by voting preference. So there is no personal system at all. We did once, before 1917 when we still had districts, but we haven't had districts in a long time. D66 turned that in in 1917.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u30	It's about the right to vote. In other words, the Constitution states that it is a question of the right to choose persons. My question is based on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u31	I've studied it, too, but you really do choose a person. You have to indicate which person you choose within that list. It was, it is, and it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u32	Unlike other colleagues, I do not necessarily say that this experiment should not be allowed. I can see that people are indeed listed here. In fact, the list is right in front of you, so you can vote for the person. The point is that if there is a discussion about a core problem, we must have a good answer to it, especially if the Elections Council has advised on this. We'll have to tell them what that is. Then we can really make up our mind. An experiment can and may in principle, as far as I am concerned, but very well-founded and very well-motivated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u33	We came here at the end of the Chamber's term. It is to this minister's credit that he can almost always answer the Chamber directly. Even now he can, so I'm happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u34	Mr. Chairman. With a bill, the ruler from trade union K should actually do the best he can to fight for the bill and get support in the Chamber. I'll try to do the same now. First of all, let me show you what this is about. The proposal is not to introduce this, but to experiment with a limited number of municipalities with this type of ballot. On the top half it can be indicated on which party one votes. There's a logo. This helps, as it turns out, also people with disabilities which makes it difficult for them to read. They'll know: oh, yeah, that's my club. On the lower half they can make a red box for a candidate if they want to vote in favour. If they do not do so, they shall be deemed not to have voted for the party but on the list leader. You always vote for a candidate. That's often the list leader, but it could also be another candidate. The nice thing about this when you see this, is that you can hardly even compare to his.... is that you can apply this same form in a Braille card. People who are blind can therefore feel the information they normally cannot obtain. They can then make that booth red and thus vote independently. People who are blind, of course, have never been able to do so on their own. By the way, people who are visually impaired can do something similar to a note where the figures are somewhat larger. The same note goes in, but then they are supported when recognizing the number of the list and the number of the candidate. Of course, they have to know who they want to vote for in advance. You can put up a list in the voting booth with the names of the candidates in Braille, to help them remember who that was again and which party that was again. However, that cannot be removed. If you're blind and you're alone in a booth, this is the only way to make that visible. We couldn't have done that so far. That is the proposal with which we want to do an experiment. There were earlier variants in which you could combine this with a possibility to also make photos of candidates visible. There are countries where that happens. For people who can read badly, for example, this could have advantages. I have now expressly ruled that out by letter of amendment, because then you will indeed be in a very different process of discussion. Those discussions are about an election process like a beauty contest, a beauty contest. The question is what the influence of portraits is on people's choice. Moreover, in the explanatory statement, I have said 'I quote it because Mr Veldman asked 'that the government does not otherwise intend to use photographs of candidates'. It applies not only to the form, but also to the presentation, for example in the voting booth, or what people will be sent home. This doesn't just fall out of the sky. An experiment was conducted among voters abroad for the European Parliament in 2014. That experiment, of course, had to be done on the basis of a law. That bill passed here as a hammer piece. That was exactly the form I'm showing you right now. In that experiment, sufficient instruction has been given. As a result, the error rate was 0.23%. That's extremely low. There's a difference between an experiment and a test. A test is for the fuse and an experiment for the ultrasound. In an experiment, it's real. In that experiment, the voters are well informed. That led to that low percentage. However, I agree with everyone who says that this does not mean that the number of errors would be just as low in the voting booth. Firstly, the electorate group abroad may be another and secondly, at home at the kitchen table introducing a process with perhaps more peace than in the voting booth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u35	The minister just demonstrated the ballots. He was talking about a Braille ballot and a ballot for people who are visually impaired. He said they're available. If we agree to the experiment, will those ballots be available, so that people with visual impairment will improve on it compared to the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u36	The answer is yes. Let me therefore say straight away that this is also the reason why I consider the amendment tabled to be supportive and would like to leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u38	Bye-bye, I'll go back. I'm getting a little more systematic about the benefits. So this isn't falling out of the sky. This is the result of an experiment previously approved by the Second and First Chambers, the results of which were positive. On this basis, the municipalities, the Election Council and the Dutch Association for Citizens' Affairs have said that it might be a good idea to do this in the voting room during experiments. The bill has seen the Chamber. This has received a positive opinion from the Council of State and the Election Council. On the specific issue of the relationship with the Constitution, I will go into it in a moment, but I would like to point out that the Council of State and the Election Council would have noticed it quickly if there had been a conflict with the Constitution. Before going into specific points, I note that the cost of this experiment will be very limited, because it is all paper. In the end, other investments are not needed. I will briefly summarize the advantages. First of all, testing shows that it is tested more than twice as fast as the classic banknote that needs to be folded out and that you have to look carefully to get the right list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u39	You mean it's counted twice as fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u40	Yeah, it's counted twice as fast as the classic ballot. That's a big advantage in the evening, in determining the results. I mentioned that it is more accessible to the blind and visually impaired and to the low-literate, because of that logo. Not part of this bill, but perhaps something to keep in mind, is that should there ever be electronic counting, I am not talking about electronic voting, but about electronic counting, such an A4 is electronically countable, whereas the current banknote would not be. That's more of a mind-to-head thing. It is now more than twice as fast to count and the benefits for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u41	I assume that the Minister is done with his general block and that he will go to the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u43	Then there's one more question I have to ask you. How am I supposed to reconcile this with what the Minister himself sent to the Chamber in 2013? He stated very explicitly on paper, delivered to the Chamber, that it is not justified to invest in a new ballot now. The aim then was, together, to move towards electronic and to make us work for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u44	I consider that to be a specific question, which I would have liked to answer as a specific question. Mr Veldman did indeed ask that question. Now that he's crawling in front of me, I'd like to answer it. Let me give you a very honest answer. We are talking on Thursday about an initiative legislative proposal by the VVD group to proceed to an experiment with electronic voting. That is the place where I will give an opinion on this on behalf of the government. I don't really want to bring that whole discussion to this moment either. I can perhaps give you a hint, namely that Mr Veldman should give the opinion that the VNG 2013 gave on the idea of going to electronic voting, in addition to the opinion that the VNG gave this month on Mr Taverne's current initiative legislative proposal. That is extremely critical. This is because in recent years we have used a committee under the inspiring leadership of the former spokesperson of the VVD Willibrord van Beek to find out. The answer to our question was not complete, so I had it checked out again by the Van Beek Committee. The committee said: after this, an expert group will have to look into it. That's what we're gonna talk about on Thursday. It's not a case yet. That is why, for two reasons, I think it is wise to do so. The first is that, should it come to electronic voting at any time, there will have to be a paper backup in case the machines fail. Also then it is wise to have the best possible backup. Then let's experiment with what could be the best backup, even in the future. The second is that it is not established, let us be honest, I have not yet seen any cover and no cost of electronic voting. So I would like to move on now. And yes, three years ago, like the VNG, I was perhaps a bit more optimistic about the prospects than after I had taken the opinions of the Van Beek Commission and an expert committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u45	I give the floor to Mr Veldman. I would like to call on the Chamber to be a little reluctant to anticipate the debate that we have scheduled for next Thursday, also in view of the time. More debates are planned today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u46	I will not go into the first part of the Minister's reply, because we will indeed be able to discuss this advice from the UNG next Thursday. What the Minister is doing now, as I said earlier, is actually improving the old system. Mr Bishop put it nicely: we've been doing it for years, with the red pencil that you can't moisten. With me, the question remains, I don't really get an answer to it yet, why the Minister hasn't taken a step himself and said he wants to experiment with it.You'll start with a new system, a modern system. Why bet on an old system? Why bet on bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u47	Again, of course, this is a bit of a question about electronic voting. If we can get the benefits of counting a few times faster and of greater accessibility for a group that is now struggling with it, we are making great progress. Then it's just the fact that it's old-fashioned... Yes, children have also been conceived in the same way for centuries. I don't think that's the problem right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u48	Some changes have been made to that, the Minister may know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u49	That's not entirely true, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u50	Not all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u51	By the bank, yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u52	Yeah, the bank did. But we are not going to have this discussion here either. I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u53	I'm going to have to go with my colleague, Mr. Veldman. I do not think we can separate what we are discussing today and what we are discussing on Thursday. As soon as we opt for this form, which can indeed be counted electronically in the near future, we are already taking an advance on the equipment we need to count these forms. My question to the Minister is therefore whether these two legislative proposals are not mixed up. Can't we get it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u54	This bill does not include electronic voting. I also said that you should bear it in mind that it would be possible if you wished, but this must be judged on its merits. The advantages are, on the one hand, that it is accessible to people with disabilities and, on the other hand, that it can be counted more than twice as quickly. I am not saying that we should introduce it, but that we should have an experiment with it in the voting room. Researches everything and preserves the good, says Apostle Paul. So let's keep the good, but let's do an experiment. Again, I feel supported by the municipalities, the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, the Election Council. They say, "Do the experiment properly and under control." I say with Mrs Koşer Kaya that you can learn from that and always decide on the basis of the experiment that the benefits do not outweigh the disadvantages. Then you won't go through with it. That's not lightly. It's been tested. Experimented with the foreign voices, with a good result. So I think this is a clear experiment. I therefore strongly recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u55	The Minister states a few times that it is so accessible to the blind and visually impaired. I just got a reaction about the whole thing with the mold that you're gonna have to do outside the voting booth. So first you need to be instructed to know how that mold works. Next thing you know, in the voting booth, you're gonna need someone from the polling station to help you out. That doesn't make any sense at all. There is therefore no benefit to be gained. I'm getting those reactions. Has the Minister, in the preparation of the legislative proposal, read nothing of this, and has he received any advice, in particular, from interest groups of the blind and visually impaired?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u56	There's been a consultation phase. I would have to check who used it, but let us compare it with what we have to compare it with. Visually limited and certainly blindness are of course limitations. We are not going to lift that completely, but so far someone who is blind cannot vote alone in the polling room. This will make this possible. Of course, a lot of people will say: I'll do it by proxy; I'll take it from there. But as a government, we must do exactly what we can to support people who like to vote themselves. Mrs Voortman pointed that out, too. That is also a point of principle. Then you do not remove all practical objections, but at least you make it possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u57	So nothing has actually been investigated and there has been no consultation with the interest groups. In principle, it makes no difference to the current situation, in which a blind person cannot vote in a voting booth without support. That might be possible with electronic votes, because you can audition people, but we are having that discussion on Thursday. In short, I see no difference between the current situation and the situation that the Minister proposes with the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u58	I'll do more to make it clear. The current situation is that a blind man cannot vote independently in the voting booth. The new situation is that a blind person who has been instructed to do so can do so, with Braille on the mould in which this form is put. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u59	It is outside the scope of the debate, but it is not the same as it was a few centuries ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u60	But not always.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u61	I just wanted to put that aside. It's about electronic voting all the time. That's a little uncomfortable, because I wasn't at that debate. I'm not a spokesperson for that. But isn't it good to actually look at another form? The Minister says it has no cover. Isn't the biggest problem with electronic voting going to be that it's going to cost a lot of money, that that money isn't there at the moment, and that it could take us a while to vote electronically at all? We can all have dreaming dreams, but cheap voting will not be electronic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u62	Without getting ahead of it, I note that we do not yet know what the costs will be, that the proposal for an initiative has no cover and that the UNG has said so far that at least it has nothing to do with it. The government also states that voting is the responsibility of the municipalities. So Mrs Fokke is certainly right that this issue is not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u63	On this point, the Minister's bill states that the burden will be reduced because the vote will be faster. I assume that electronic voting will also speed up the counting of votes. If, therefore, the Minister considers that the basis of his bill on that point is good enough, then should that be the case for Mr Taverne's bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u64	I'll be tempted to give a brief answer anyway. The difference is that electronic voting, regardless of the merits we are going to discuss on Thursday, involves large investments, including replacement investments. The Van Beek Committee has already pointed this out; it mentioned very large amounts, I believe 250 million every eight years. The cabinet has written to the Chamber to wish to carry out a market exploration to see if that could also be done for a lower amount. In addition, the Van Beek Commission valued 16 million in structural costs for the maintenance of that entire fleet. So I do not want to anticipate Thursday, but that is a different order of magnitude in terms of financial consequences than changing such a bill, especially when we do it in the form of a small experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u65	This bill follows on from Mr Taverne's bill; or vice versa, that depends on how you want to see it. Has there been no consultation with Mr Taverne to see how you can better coordinate this? I feel that there is an 'undercurrent' to this debate that I cannot really put my finger on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u66	I'm sure there's been a meeting. I am aware of the initiative proposal. That is also technically supported from BZK, as it should be. I have been in contact with Mr Taverne on this. That really seems like something to discuss on Thursday. The proposal before us is: no regret. For relatively few investments you can keep an experiment to see if this might be a way to improve the manual voting and counting of those votes. Should the Chambers decide at any time to roll out an experiment with electronic voting, it will stand apart from this and will not be hindered by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u67	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u68	That was my general block. In the interruptions, I have already answered some specific questions. Mr Bosma and Mr Klein asked about the list system. I've asked lawyers to get that straight. Some countries have personalised systems and others have lists. In a personal system, the vote will only benefit the candidate who has been voted on and will never benefit anything else or any other body. If that candidate didn't get enough votes, he won't. In the case of a list system, the vote will benefit first of all from the list on which the candidate stands. Afterwards, the seat allocation shall take place. In doing so, voters can indeed cross the order by voting in favour. So Mr Van Raak was absolutely right: we have a list system. That's an open list system. In a closed list system you can only vote on a list and the order is determined further by the list, i.e. by the party. We have an open system of lists, in which the electorate has the opportunity to cross the order of the party that had established it with a vote of preference. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. With this form it is strictly legal that if you do not vote in favour, you are deemed not to have voted on the list but then you are actually deemed to have voted in favour of the list leader, with which the situation is completely analogous to the current situation. This was also seen by the Council of State and the Election Council. I do not therefore see any contradiction with the Constitution. The Constitution requires that the electoral system be set up on the basis of proportional representation. There is no deviation from that. Nor is there any departure from the free individual mandate of the person elected. It is up to the legislator, according to Article 59 of the Constitution, to further develop the electoral system. That's what happens at Kiedswet, just like we're doing today. Mrs. Koşer Kaya asked for that. So perhaps I have a second point for Mr Bosma's shudder, or let me finish this first point, because I see Mr Klein rushing forward. After all, he just said he was elected. Mr Klein was never elected by a voter, but as a result of the list system, the number of seats allocated to his party was such that he was elected to the Chamber, although he did not reach the electorate. That's the open list system as we know it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u69	That last one's right. We have an open list system and no personal system, such as a district system or whatever. That seems very clear to me, but Article 54 of the Constitution deals with the fact that the members are ultimately appointed and become representatives of the people. This means that the starting point in the Constitution is the election of representatives of the people, starting with Article 4 on the fundamental right that every Dutch citizen may elect his or her representative. That's the starting point. Next, the open list is the organisational model. The open list can be created by random clubs. You don't even have to have a match for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u70	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u71	My point is that the constitutional aspects do mean more than just the limited articles on proportional representation presented by the Minister. It is also about the fact that the members are actually elected and not the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u72	Your question is whether the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u73	That is correct, but this is not affected by the arrangement of the ballot. Whether you're using the bill in front of you or another bill, it doesn't change the constitutional position of the MP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u74	That's right, but that's when you're elected and then you're holding that position that's enshrined in the Constitution in the last article. In advance, the starting point is that people are members of this Chamber because they are elected as members because every Dutchman has the right to choose people................................................................................................................................................... However, the starting point is not that a party vote is given, but that a personal vote is given. That is why the Minister rightly states that the fiction will be held that a person who has only cast a list vote will also be deemed to have voted for a person, namely on the numero 1 of that list of candidates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u75	That's an interesting consideration. I think I agree with most of that, but none of it is changed by the arrangement of the ballot. That is the legislative proposal for which we are now asking for the support of the Chamber in the event of an experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u76	The Minister says that the Constitution remains secure because there is a link to the members or the persons. But since only numbers are mentioned here and the names have been omitted, we think that the relationship between the numbers and the names............................................................................................................................................... This is also a question of controllability. Suppose someone filled out a number on a ballot and put that note in the clique. That is eventually checked and indeed a number is found, but how can a polling station guarantee that the right person is indeed ticked, if it only sees the numbers that are ticked?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u77	That's no different than it is now. You fold that bill out a few times. You get a very large note with a lot of fine print and then you make a red box somewhere. You thought you voted for Stef Blok, but it turned out to be Mr. Veldman, or vice versa. Of course, that can never be checked again. That's intrinsic to the voting process. There is no subsequent check by anyone whether the voter has intensified the vote cast, other than that the polling station checks whether it has been a valid vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u78	Doesn't the Minister agree with me that my mother would cross a name if she were to vote today? For example: CDA, list 1, number 16, Mr Amhaouch. There's clearly a name on that, isn't there? This new ballot doesn't have a name in it, does it? There's just a number. So there is a substantial difference between the ist- and the soll situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u79	In case Mr Amhaouch's mother looks along, I advise her not to cross the name, but I advise her to follow the specific instructions to make the box red. That could be a very good idea. However, I agree with the thrust of the question. There's a list of candidates in the voting booth. Mr Amhaouch's mother will vote CDA, so look to the right, find out which number it is and make that box red. There is a hip movement in that, but that is also the only difference and there are great advantages. I hope to be able to convince the CDA Group of this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u80	It's true what the minister says, that we have an open list system, but that system does make you tick a candidate, that you make a box red with the candidate. The Minister now proposes two votes, including one vote on one party. And if you forget to cast the second vote, we'll pretend you voted for the list. I would like to go a long way along with that, because perhaps people are voting for the first one out of automatism now, but it is not the truth that it always is. It's still a choice people make: what name on the list do I tick? Now the minister makes it: if you don't tick anything, it's automatically number one. That will happen without us having that visible, because that is actually impossible to count. So you've cast a vote on the party. The Election Council says of this: this is a fundamental change of our system. What does the Minister think about the Election Council saying that this is a fundamental change? That is not what the Election Council says; it has a meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u81	In my memory, the choice of words was not entirely a fundamental change in our system. But I'll leave that in the middle. The Election Board indicates there's a difference, but doesn't advise against it for that reason. The Election Council therefore does not say that this affects our system so negatively that you should not do it. The Election Council also, rightly, has an eye for the fact that there are great advantages. The VVD also aims at these advantages otherwise, because electronic voting is not an end in itself. The aim is to ensure faster counting and greater accessibility for people with disabilities. We agree on this objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u82	The Election Council issued an opinion in April 2015 referring to a letter from the Election Board itself dated 17 May 2013. It says explicitly about this system that it is sneaking into party voting and that it is a fundamental change in our current electoral system. I think that means something, because the Election Council doesn't just say that. I think the Minister there is now a bit easy...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u83	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u84	I'll look for that old letter again. I note that the Election Council gave a positive opinion on this bill. So I know I am also supported by both the Election Council and the Association of Dutch Municipalities in my question to enter into this experiment. I've been experimenting my whole life, and I don't want to necessarily predict the future. Let's be open to what comes out. If it turns out that there are objections or that it is more complicated than anticipated, then we can draw lessons from them and change it or decide not to go forward with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u85	Those experiments were about worms; we're talking about forms now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u86	Oh, they were all about everything, Mr. Chairman. I'll send you my resume again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u87	Thank you. May I suggest that we return to this in the second term? I now give the floor to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u88	That was a nice comparison to the minister's experiment with his worms, but for those worms he had chosen himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u89	I'm wronging the minister, because it was more than just worms. Let me put it this way: his experiment concerned biology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u90	Agreed, Chairman. However, it was a choice of a scientist, who wanted to achieve a scientific goal at that time, while, of course, we are dealing here with experimenting with voters, who have no choice. The voters in the municipalities selected for this experiment do not have the choice to say that they do not want to cast a list vote or that they do not want to participate in this system at all. If you have some kind of shadow system or community, I can imagine. My question is very simple...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u91	I'd like to ask you to interrupt for a shorter period of time, otherwise we won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u92	Yeah, but this is legal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u93	I know that, and that's why I'm calling you to interrupt a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u94	I would like to make it clear to the Minister that this experiment leads to electoral guinea pigs: one voter becomes a guinea pig, but the other voter does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u95	It is completely normal for changes in the electoral process, which have been frequent in recent decades, to be tested first. I will explain that to Mr Klein. This means that you try it first without counting and if those tests produce a positive result, a limited experiment is done. An example of this is the experiment in the European Parliament elections for people abroad, which was unanimously supported by the First and Second Chambers. This experiment is still ongoing, and this situation can therefore continue in the future. It is now proposed to do this experiment on a limited scale in the voting room. This is a totally accepted method of making changes to the voting process. I apologize if I sound a bit short, but now something inappropriate is happening, while this is the normal course that always happens. Tests are done first and then experiments, and they always get a legal basis. That is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u96	The latter is, of course, justified. There will indeed be a legal basis, which is why we are also in this process and we are having a discussion about this. I mentioned in my contribution the results of the tests and that you can discuss them with each other. However, if you then start experimenting, I believe that this way you do not give people a choice in the electoral process and that for that reason you should not do it. I think that the experiment with the European letter voters, to name them, should be well involved. 'Cause I'm not that happy about that experiment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u97	That is what has happened, and it shows that 0.23% is wrong. That is an extremely low percentage of invalidity. However, I would like to say immediately that I expect that voting in a polling station may result in a higher percentage of invalidity, but that is also the case with the current form. The only way to establish that is to do an experiment on a limited scale and under good conditions. If that is excluded, you can never make any changes to this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u98	It is good that the Minister quotes those tests, because there is a whole list of the different error margins and the amount of invalid votes available. In my opinion, 0.2% of the people had cast an invalid vote in the last Lower House elections. When testing with this form in November 2015, I believe this was 1.8%. That's almost a tenfold increase. That's pretty big, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u99	Yes, but in the experiment with the subsequent European Parliament elections, it was 0.23%. The difference is that the instructions in the tests have been less good than in the experiment, but we have learned from them and we will have to continue to do so in the future. So let us guide this process well. A number of questions have also been asked about this, including Mr Bishop, about informing the electorate. I may be able to get there in a moment, but at least that will have to be done exhaustively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u100	I think the Minister is confusing the data. The November 2015 test is, of course, something different from the experiment that was carried out during the European Parliament elections. I read in the figures that the November 2015 test, which was last autumn, declared 1.8% of the votes invalid. That is a tenfold increase in what we saw in the regular Lower House elections, because there was an error margin of 0.2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u101	I just answered that. That was because the information was less then. I think we should take care of that. The only experiment that was done resulted in a low error rate. However, if we are going to do so in the voting room, we must change it with proper information. Moreover, a change has been made following a suggestion from the SGP. At first, your vote was invalid if you didn't fill out a candidate. If you don't fill out a candidate right now, you voted on the number one on the list. I was going to answer Mr Veldman's questions, but I think he has already asked them all in the event of interruption. I spoke about the relationship to the initiative proposal on electronic voting. I have explained that if it ever comes from that, it will be useful to have experimented with a better tuned ballot, if only in case the machines are broken once. In the run-up to it it is also good to have a backup. Mr. Veldman asked about photographs. I replied that by letter of amendment any use of photographs is excluded. I thank Mr Van Raak for his support. I have already said that I support the amendment he has co-signed. He has just explained that we have an open list system and that the first model has been chosen. Mr Van Raak asked about the number of municipalities participating. That will be a limited number: I do not foresee more than five. The decision on this matter has yet to be taken by the Cabinet and will be put before the Second and Upper Chambers. Those who are concerned about this, including the CDA spokesperson, can also look fully critically at the extent of the experiment and its preparation, including details of how it will all be done. We'll start small. If the experiment goes well, we could do a second experiment on a larger scale. I also think you should be very careful about this. Depending on the outcome, we may be able to proceed with this, but that is what the future must tell us. That's always been the case with experiments. For example, the introduction of voting in a random voting room has also been a major change. It was introduced in the same way. I come to Mrs Voortman's questions. I have already said that I would like to leave the opinion on her amendment to the Chamber. She also asked what this means for electronic voting. We have already had a lot of debates and AO's on this. We have to be exactly in that. The technique of this moment does not allow us to safely vote digitally from behind the computer with DigiD. This autumn we will come up with a proposal for a test. If the technology develops further, we will stay on the hook to see if it can be done at any time. From all the opinions we have received, including from the Van Beek Committee, it follows that there is always a paper trail. If you would like to automate the process, you can do the casting of the voice digitally, but that should result in a print showing the name of the chosen person, for example Mr Amhaouch of the CDA. If that's exactly what you meant, that print goes into the ballot box. This could then be counted electronically. The paper shall contain no information other than visible to the eye. That is the essence of the proposal, which, by the way, can be traced back to a proposal by Korthals Altes from many years ago. As far as total digital voices are concerned, we keep our finger on the pulse through a test, but we do not think that the technique makes this possible at the moment. Two things are ultimately asked in the voting process. Firstly, that no one can in any way find out what someone voted, not even through a hack. Secondly, we need to be 100% sure that someone is voting that they intend to vote at that time. Those two requirements are not compatible with fully digital voices. I answered Mr Klein's questions in the event of interruption. I would like to thank Mr Bishop of the SGP for the suggestion that I have just mentioned and which we have taken on board. Good information must be provided. It will at least consist of providing information at home and providing information at the polling station so that people can be supported. On Mr Bishop's suggestion, I had a conversation with people with disabilities. I showed them the bill. They thought it was a good idea. Well, that's not a scientific assessment, but they said the bill with the party logo would help them. Again, we have not done any scientific research on it, but I have the impression that it could also support that group. Mrs Fokke asked me about the relationship with the Constitution. I responded to that earlier. Mr Amhaouch asked what happened in Nissewaard. There, a test was carried out in parallel with the elections, so not for the Smartmatic company. The Empire hasn't been involved in that experiment. It is allowed to carry out such a test on its own. As for the klickos in the polling station, I say that the area around the ballot box is up to the municipality. There are some guarantees. So it must all be lockable et cetera. I can tell that the CDA Group doesn't like these things. Aesthetics, safety and disposal are basically the responsibility and costs of the municipality. That is not affected by what is now on the table. It's a slightly smaller piece of paper, so at the end of the ride it eventually yields a little less paper. That is the only difference at this point. I hope I have convinced the CDA Group of the benefits of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u102	In Nissewaard there has been a test and no experiment of Smartmatic itself. Have the results been shared with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u103	I am replying in the negative. This was indeed done independently by the company, with the knowledge of the municipality. That's enough. Nothing irresistible happened. I don't know the results. If you would appreciate it, I would be able to inform you. I have already replied to Mrs Koşer Kaya on the point that was important to her. It concerned in particular the relationship with the Constitution. That brings me to the amendments that are before us. I have already said that I am judging the amendment on item No. 10 members Voortman, Fokke and Van Raak would like to leave to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 9 opens a very different discussion. By the way, 80 candidates would not be possible in the current form of the ballot. So should this eventually be introduced nationwide, then a slightly different facility would be needed. A separate decision should be taken to this end. In any case, in my opinion, the debate on the layout of the ballot is not taking place in what we are talking about today. At the moment, without any advice on this matter, I would like to advise against this amendment. I thought I was at the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u104	I just wanted to table this amendment anyway, because there are going to be elections. I could have done it to Mr Taverne or anywhere else. That it is a little out of the question, I agree with that, but, yes, I do not think that the Minister's motivation to refer it directly to the wastebasket is sufficient. He did say something interesting: if we go to this new system, then apparently 80 candidates do not fit in. This would mean that there would have to be another amendment to amend the Tickets Act. The number of 80 candidates, which now applies to the larger parties, should be reduced. I find that a striking statement. That's what he should've told you. However, if he rejects my amendment, I should like to ask him why, because there is now a strange separation between parties with fifteen seats or less, and parties larger than fifteen seats. That is a strange, arbitrary and also old-fashioned and outdated contradiction. I would like to point out that the Labour Party is now on eight seats in the polls. It's unbelievable: eight seats! This would mean that the PvdA would have to limit itself in terms of the number of people on the list in the elections. The Minister doesn't want that on his conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u105	It breaks my heart that Mr Bosma is so committed to the Labour Party. To the factual question he asked and passerby, I would like to answer in the affirmative. The Chamber gives permission, by law, for an experiment with the model 1 banknote. If more extensive experiments are to be carried out, another legal process will be required. Then that comes back to this Chamber, so the answer is affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u106	In my view, the Minister does not answer Mr Bosma's question about those 80 candidates. If a party wants to put 80 candidates on its list, it could be done, via the VVD or the PvdA it can be done easily. This means that the model should be adapted. However, I had another question that the Minister did not answer, namely about a party which lists fewer candidates than the number of boxes on such a ballot card. So when people vote for the last booth, they actually vote for a ghost candidate, because that booth is not a candidate. Well, that's some kind of fiction, isn't it? Then it is pretended that it would have suddenly voted on the list leader. Wouldn't it make more sense to say that that vote goes to the list driver of the list in question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u107	The Minister. This question was indeed still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u108	I would like to thank Mr Klein for the opportunity to add something to my reply to Mr Bosma's question. I have just been told that in what I have shown the Chamber there are not 80 candidates, but in the model shown in the Chambers, that is the case. Technically, 80 candidates could do so, but you still have a discussion as to whether the difference between small parties and large parties in the current law is still a sustainable difference. I am not saying that I find it strange, given the current fluctuations and volatility, to look again at whether that is a sustainable distinction, but I would not want to do so now without any advice and without any reflection from the Election Council. For this reason, I am currently dissuading the amendment, without having assessed the substance of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u109	Mr Klein's question on voting on non-existent candidates is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u110	Should one have voted for a party that has only put four candidates, that could lead to a wrong vote if one ticks candidate number 25. The proposal lays down that in the event of such a occurrence, that vote shall then be counted as a vote on the list. This is the best way to serve the electorate and there are no misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u111	Thank you. This has put an end to the Minister's first term. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. Mr Bosma does not need a second term. I call Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u112	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. However, I do not yet feel reassured by that answer. The Minister is getting over a number of concerns a little too easily. It is good to read in the late letter of amendment yesterday, which we received yesterday, that photos will not be used, not even for other forms that may be placed in the voting booth. That saves another concern. The question remains as to why this change came so late. I have just plundered the explanatory memorandum. It deals in great detail with the great advantage of using photos, without making one word of their risks dirty at all. Hence my question about this late change. However, that is more a question of principle as to how you organise such a process. The concern remains about the change in the system we are actually choosing, at least the Minister chooses it in his proposal, whereby a party is primarily voted on and a candidate secondary to one, while, according to our current system, a candidate is primarily voted on. On the lists we get, there are a number of lots with a number below them. Behind each number is a name. The voter chooses one of those names. A lot of people vote for the list leader. As I have just said, some of the parties have very good listers, at least my party, so a lot of people vote for the number one on the list, and rightly so. That's just a choice. The new ballot actually deprives people of that choice, because it starts with the casting of a vote on a party. From the back door people may have forgotten by the new ballot to fill in a second voice at the time they walk out of the voting booth. Then you automatically voted on number one on the list. That's weird, 'cause you didn't. I think the Minister is getting over this too easily and going too easily with what the Election Council says. Indeed, it has generally given a positive opinion, which is absolutely true, but the letter states that this is a fundamental change to our system. I believe that we need to think better and more about this than we have done so far. At least the Minister has not convinced me that it is wise to experiment with this, because I think that you will eventually move towards a different system than we have now, when we have not had the discussion on the subject at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u113	Hard, principled, constitutional objections. The VVD Group was rather surprised. Now the VVD Group says that the Minister is getting over it too easily. Those are pretty harsh words at coalition level. I assume the VVD Group is voting against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u114	It is a good practice for the VVD to take stock after two deadlines, but I would like to give Mr Bosma a hint of the shutter. I'll wait for the Minister's answer. Maybe he'll convince me, but so far he hasn't convinced me. If the Minister's second term produces the same result as the first, I think Mr Bosma will be able to feel what the advice to my group will be. Again, there's gonna be a second term from the minister, so there's still room to convince him. It is a good habit to take stock at the end of the debate. I'll hold on to that. However, I think Mr Bosma knows a little which way it is going. But who knows, the minister could surprise me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u115	Yes, because it's not about a law with 47 articles where the minister can say "I'll drop two, and I'll adjust that one" as we often see in the Chamber. This is just about being for or against the ballot. I note that the VVD is against this ballot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u116	As I said, we are taking stock at the end of the debate. If the Minister reaches the same point as after his first term, I think Mr Bosma can sense where the VVD will come out. But there is still a second term on the Minister's side. I'd like to give him that, too. That's how we do things in this house... processically with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u117	But what is the Minister supposed to do? What's he got to admit? How can he give in to Mr. Veldman and the VVD? Is he supposed to make the ballot bigger or smaller, A4 or A5? There's not much room to do it differently, is there? It's experimenting with one model. I don't see the problem; you always do a party and a person, that doesn't change anything. But for the VVD it is a major constitutional issue with great constitutional implications. And then the Minister will have to respond to that. Well, that could be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u118	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u119	That's not a serious question to the Minister, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u120	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u121	As far as I'm concerned, yes. Mr Van Raak can find it funny and funny, but the system is going uphill, in the sense that you are now using an open list of candidates that is where a candidate ticks and that you may not tick a candidate anymore. It is an essential difference from the way in which we have now set up our electoral system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u122	Short, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u123	If you're in a coalition, I'm thinking about what that's like...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u124	Yes, I can imagine! I'm sure you'll think about that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u125	That's taking and giving. You meet from time to time, but there are also matters of principle. They touch the heart, and you can't admit it. Mr Veldman says: this is a reversal, a fundamental change in our electoral system. I think that is completely absurd, but let me say that Mr Veldman thinks it is a complete change in our electoral system. With all due respect, can he never say that he is giving this minister, who is doing such a terrible thing, a fundamental change in the electoral system, the heart of our democracy, our rule of law and our Constitution, a second term, a minute? Then he just has to say: this is a coalition issue and if the minister goes through with this, the whole coalition will blow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u126	It is clear and clear that Mr Van Raak is not used to working in this house in a coalition context, because he would not have this input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u127	You had arrived at the end of your second term. I see that Mr Van Raak does not need a second term. I call Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u128	Mr. Chairman. The Minister indicated that the new ballot is better for people with disabilities. For people who are visually impaired, I could imagine that, given the larger font. But how is it better for people with poor hand function due to spasms, for example? And how does this note secure the voting secret of the blind? After all, if you want to know if you voted well through that mold, can't it only be by asking someone else? So you don't have a vote secret after all. I also wondered if the mould is the same as the one that was experimented with in Wolfheze in 2010. It turned out to be inappropriate. If it's not the same, why is this mold better? There's been a discussion about no names on the note. The Minister said that, of course, lists will be put up in the voting booth. Then, of course, what people who can't see have to do with that. In short, it seems that the only advantage at the moment is that the counting of votes is faster. The question is whether this experiment has such clear added value. Isn't it better to bet on electronic voting after all? I am not sure yet, so the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will consider this. I do have a motion on digital voting. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the ongoing work on Idensys, a new digital system for doing business digitally with the government;]] [[Whereas, in view of the accessibility of the voting process for people with disabilities, it is important to work towards the possibility of voting in elections by digital means;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for digital voting and to involve in the ongoing pilot for Idensys, and to inform the Parliament of this in the 2017 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34288-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u129	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to respond briefly. It was a question of how we can count more easily and quickly. That was the starting point for the test and that is the starting point in the experimental law. That is also the way in which the Council of State and the Election Council have assessed this. They have considered whether it can be simpler and yes, this can indeed be simpler. Then the system of the list voice, the party vote snuck into it. That would not in itself be such a problem, if it were not for your vote in two situations, namely if you forget to vote for a candidate or if you vote for an empty booth that does not actually have a candidate, is still considered a vote on a candidate. That's gonna sneak something else into the system than we've had so far. So far, you could only vote for one candidate, whether that was number 1, number 20, number 30 or number 80 on the list. That is the current point of departure. That is why this is indeed a serious discussion, because now you have a party vote, a list vote, which is then supposed to contain something. That's how you create a party system. We are therefore increasingly forced to vote for parties with puppet dictatorships. We have just been able to read all kinds of articles about PvdA room members who should or should not ask questions and keep away from certain things because they do not belong to the party. In short, that party vote is the bottleneck. The Minister should therefore be able to find a solution to this problem. This can be done, for example, by simply deciding to turn the form around: someone has to vote for a candidate first and may then vote on a list. That is also a possibility, but the current way only leads to a system in which people vote for parties. This is contrary to Article 54 of the Constitution, which states that members are directly elected. In this way, members shall not be elected directly but through the party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u130	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. As usual, it was adequate and to the point. The SGP is very positive about the developments outlined. We are looking forward to the concrete results of this experiment, both in terms of counting votes, which, if it succeeds, guarantees a considerable degree of care and accuracy, as well as the better opportunities for people with disabilities, who are thus given a means of casting their votes. We consider that to be a great asset. There was one more question that bumped into me. I could have put it in an interruption, but I decided to keep it for the second term. Perhaps that question has already been answered, but I do not have that clear and therefore I am asking the Minister. We have talked in detail about the validity of a vote on a non-existent candidate, because a mistake has been made and a wrong number is called, but what happens to that vote if a voter does not tick the list but only a candidate? And if that candidate doesn't exist, then what? I would like to see such questions clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u131	Mr. Chairman. After this afternoon, I'm getting very curious about the way this whole thing has been tested. If the Minister needs another test panel, he'll just invite the Permanent Committee for the Interior. Is there anything else he can tell us about that? I feel like we're doing things again that I think have been done a long time ago. Unlike other parties, we think it is very positive that we are just going to experiment. I do agree with Mrs Voortman that it must be more than just that it can only be counted quickly. There must also be added value. It should be possible for more people to cast their own votes. That would only be profit. Can the Minister tell us anything else about that? Yeah, we'd like to take on that experiment. I must say quite frankly that I see no contradiction with the Constitution. If we are to discuss this experiment in principle with all of us, then we must also discuss how our Dutch Tickets Act relates to the Constitution. Maybe we should talk about this again in detail. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Mr Klein. We were gonna have coffee. I think that's very sensible, because he shouldn't believe all the nonsense he's reading. So I'd like to have that cup of coffee sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u132	Mr Bosma has a question. He might want to have a cup of coffee sometime, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u133	That wasn't my question. Colleague Veldman just had a kind of you-bake towards colleague Van Raak. He said, "You don't understand coalitions." Or they were similar words. I note that the Labour Party is going to support this bill and not the VVD. Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal is exactly the opposite. That's what the PvdA's against and the VVD's for. The coalition is quite divided on this point. Can Mrs Fokke explain exactly what the beauty and added value of the coalition is on these two closely related topics? That escapes me as a simple beginner a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u134	Mr Bosma, I do not think you are a simple beginner to begin with. That's gonna be okay. I think the good news is that a coalition is something other than a unitary sausage. Otherwise the VVD and the Labour Party would have merged. I'm always telling you the truth: we're lucky we're not. We've made a coalition with each other. We made a deal with each other. You have to be reliable on that. There are other things you can think of very differently. It is not often that Mr Veldman and I disagree. I had hoped that Mr Veldman would take a different view today. Take, for example, Article 120 of the Constitution. When we talked about this, you were just sitting in the Chamber as the Home Secretary. I think you saw at that time that Mr Taverne and I totally disagreed on Article 120 of the Constitution. I'm sorry about that. I also totally disagree with the VVD and the fact that this is an almost fundamental issue. I think that also made it clear how I started my introduction. Opinions may differ. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u135	Opinions can certainly differ. That's why we're here. I am also thinking a little about Mr Plasterk, or Minister Plasterk, I must say. This is the end of a cabinet period, isn't it? He wants to see good grades off. This is a lovely subject. It's literally a visual subject, a new ballot. And now your own coalition companion is abandoning you at this point. Then you can't just say: opinions differ. If the atmosphere in the coalition had been a little better, your coalition partner would have helped you on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u136	The good news is that's how democracy works. I am also curious to hear the answer Mr Veldman gave to you. I also thought: how does Mr Veldman convince the Minister? That seems pretty complicated to me. Perhaps Mr Veldman should say: we are simply not in favour. I like to hear what it's gonna be. But that's democracy. That's how a coalition works. I have already said that we are not a single sausage, but two parties that have made agreements on subjects and can think very differently about other subjects. It's okay, and it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u137	I would like to respond very briefly to Mrs Fokke's invitation to drink coffee. Of course, I would like to go into that, especially since I do not recognize the press releases on the MPs of the Labour Party, as if they were puppets. For example, Mr Monasch's vote on the referendum or Mrs Jacobi's vote on the F-35. I think that is only positive. Then let's leave what's in the paper for what it is and we'll discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u138	Well, that's totally good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u139	Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants to take this to a slightly higher level, with a helicopter view or droneview. Lately, there's been a lot of talk about the drone view. Let's see what's going on with the electoral process and the Election Act. We'll talk about it today, and so will Thursday. Mr Klein has tabled a proposal on electoral circles. These are all sorts of things that have to do with the Election Act, the electoral process and the electoral system. We in the House of Representatives should be careful not to treat that system like a jukebox, that we put a quarter in it and get what we want out of it. That would be a shame. In my opinion, these are not issues that we really need to differ on. I ask the Minister why he does not take the direction here and comes up with a roadmap or vision on how we can bring all these aspects together. We believe that the voting ballot debate before us today is also pre-sorting by electronic voting. With the new proposal the ballot is released and we no longer link the names to the numbers. That can be with the electronic vote the day after tomorrow. There are enough technical functionalities for that. To those who say that electronic voting can't take 10 years, that's the same development time as the JSF, I say that's bullshit. The solutions have long been available. It is precisely here, also within the framework of the law that we are going to discuss on Thursday, that we must secure the Election Act and the electoral process. Then we can proceed to experiment very quickly. My question to the Minister is why he doesn't take all of this together, so that we finally take the right steps and don't make it snappy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u140	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Mrs. Koşer Kaya has signed out. I give the floor to the Minister for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u141	Mr. Chairman. I shall pass by the questions I have asked in the order of the speakers. First of all, I will try to convince Mr Veldman. The question of what would be needed in the event of an interruption has already been asked, now that it appears that this is a matter of principle. We just went through Pentecost weekend. That is the occasion where the spirit descends again and becomes competent over the people. That may have happened here, because I have to say that the introduction of this ballot for voters abroad was done by law and that that law was a hammerpiece and was supported by all Members in the Second and First Chambers. In any case, it is a new principle. I've been looking into it for a while. The basis for this would have been a letter from the Election Council from 2013. So it's been a while. It wasn't entirely quoted. It was indeed said that it would be a fundamental change. However, the Election Council also wrote: "The risk that you will try to overcome this can be adequately reduced, according to the Election Board, with good information and a clear model ballot. He advises you to amend the draft decision in line with the above." That's what happened. The more recent advice of the Election Council is also positive about the experiment ahead. That is all I can do to try to convince Mr Veldman. I have done my utmost to explain the benefits, both in terms of faster counting and in terms of accessibility, here. Mrs Voortman asked whether this is also better for people who have a muscular limitation, a muscle restriction. I'm not claiming that. I don't think that will be the case either. For the blind, there is no secret vote. People who are completely blind cannot vote on their own. This new bill could do that, thanks to the mold. This is not the same as the mould used in Winschoten at the time. That was a mold for the current ballot. It turned out to be impractical and unworkable with that very large foldout banknote. It's been tested. They are encouraging, but I say immediately that this never fully reflects the situation in the voting booth when it really comes to it. That is why it will have to be properly supervised and critically evaluated. I have good expectations of it. It is always better than what is now, because now blind people can never vote independently. The tests showed that it might be possible with such an experiment. In any case, it seems to me to be progressing. So I also hope for the support of GroenLinks for this limited experiment. I've already talked about digital voices. I have already said that we will come forward with a proposal for a test at the end of this year. I would advise against linking this to the Idensyspolt, as the motion does, because we have expressly agreed with the Chamber on this, including on its deadlines. So that clutch doesn't seem obvious to me. I would advise against going further than I would like to note that I made a commitment earlier in the autumn to come back with a proposal for a test for digital voting, so that we can at least keep up with developments in this area. Mr Klein referred to the list system. I thought that we had that discussion in the event of interruption and that I answered it. Mr Bishop had another question about invalidity. Thank you for that question. If you do not tick a party above, then the vote is invalid anyway, because then it is not ambiguous who you have tried to vote for. That gives me the opportunity to say that it also leads to invalidity when people vote for more than one party or more than one candidate. In this sense, as much as possible is connected to the current system. If people now vote for two candidates, even if they are on the same list, that is also an invalid vote. This system is being continued in the current legislative proposal. I thought I answered Mrs Fokke's questions with that too. I hope that Mr Amhaouch and, through him, the CDA Group will be able to cross the line. There may always be a new insight, but this is a continuation of an experiment by my predecessor Spies, which has already been initiated with the support of the CDA. A number of proposals have been made both on the practical side and on the accessibility side. I agree with him that we should not deal lightly with the voting process, but I do not think that we should do so because we first did a small experiment with the written voice and now do an over-sighted experiment in the polling room. Finally, I come to the question of taking responsibility for the whole process of modernising the voting process. I informed the Chamber by letter that I intend to do so anyway. I'll have a market reconnaissance conducted into electronic voting. I'm going to investigate the basis of support at the Association of Dutch Municipalities. I will see if we can map the costs and if there is any reason to think that these costs can be covered by the municipalities somewhere. I have already promised to let you know before the end of the year whether the cabinet decides to move forward with it. On Thursday we will have the debate on how this relates to the experiment legislative proposal. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u142	Thank you for answering all those questions. In commenting on my amendment, the Minister said that he did not wish to express his blessing in advance without seeking advice. I understand that, because the amendment only came five minutes before the debate. Is the Minister prepared to seek advice? I suppose that should be done at the Election Council. That's not a very long procedure. That can happen pretty soon. For example, I can consider holding it or asking for the votes to be postponed or whatever. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u143	Yeah, I'm willing to. I cannot see whether this will lead to an adequate opinion, because it is not only a technical issue; there is also a very fundamental discussion behind it, but at least I want to try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u144	When can you report to the Chamber on how long it will take for the Election Board to give its opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u145	With that last annotation, I must be able to inform the Chamber this week about how long that will take. Then you have that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u146	Then the Chamber can decide when to vote on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u147	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-26.u148	For the time being, the vote is scheduled for next Tuesday. We shall then vote on the amendments and motions before us.
