ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u2	Madam President. Today we are debating the abolition of the VAR. In principle, this affects some 800 000 self-employed people without staff who are currently employed in the labour market and have a VAR in their pockets. In short, societally a very relevant subject. In my contribution, I want to follow the next line. What is the point and need of this bill? Is the new law well enforceable? What are the consequences for legal certainty? And can this law count on support, so that implementation will work out well with due regard for a serious transition period? Finally, I would like to draw a number of conclusions. This draft law aims, as has been said, to abolish the VAR. The law now consists of four forms of VAR. I confine myself here to two forms of VAR: the VAR wuo (profit from enterprise) and the VAR dga (director-major shareholder). These two forms of VAR protect clients in order to include social security contributions, income-related contributions (Zorgverzekeringswet) and in the extension thereof. That safeguard was included in the Law on Legal effects VAR in 2005. In fiscal law, that is an unprecedented privilege. The tax authorities have essentially been excluded by that safeguard in terms of control. Only in cases of fraud can the Tax Office re-establish and send the UWV correction notes. This is hardly happening in practice, because then there must be bad faith, so intent or gross guilt must be established and proven. The control ofzzp'ers is also very minimal we understood. Can the Secretary of State for Finance confirm that the need for this bill lies in the absence of control, read: capacity and control capabilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In addition, it has become clear to us that two studies show that in the situation of the VAR wuo and VAR dga there are on average about 10% of cases of false self-employment. Based on 500,000 VARs of wuo and VARs of dga, this means that in 50,000 cases, it is estimated, another fiscal qualification should apply, namely that of employment. Moreover, there does not always have to be fraud in these cases, but facts and circumstances may be different from those previously thought and filled in when the VAR was applied for. By the way, the law requires thezzp'er to report it. Is this assumption correct with regard to the usefulness of this bill? Is it correct to say that, in the case of about 10% of these 500 000 VARs, perhaps 15% or 8% of them are wrong? If that is the case, there is a problem of enforcement of the current law or, rather, the non-enforceability of the current law on the VAR, in particular the two forms I have just mentioned. Nothing more and nothing less. For the sake of clarity, as stated once and again by the Secretary of State in the Lower House, this draft law does not therefore regulate the following relevant issues. What changes should be introduced in labour law in order to respond to the flexibility of the labour market, i.e. the self-employed versus the employee? Under what conditions shouldzzp'ers be insured against risks of illness and disability? What (fiscal) old-age benefits apply tozzp'ers? How big should the difference in taxation be between azzp'er and an employee? In doing so, the cabinet presents this Chamber with a dilemma. Ideally, the cabinet should come up with a coherent vision before one element of tax enforcement is changed. However, the cabinet no longer has that ambition, as demonstrated by the reaction of 2 October last to the Ibozzp report. This is very regrettable, as is the failure to comply with the agreement in the government agreement that plans would be developed to change the difference in taxation between self-employed and employees. You don't solve a dilemma, you deal with it. How does the CDA Group intend to deal with this dilemma? The CDA Group does not consider it appropriate to continue the current practice of non-enforcement and understands that the responsibility for the qualification of whether there is a contract with the client and the contractor should rest, exactly as is the case with an employment relationship between an employer and an employee. On this basis, the employer has a wide range of obligations with regard to the retention of taxes on wages and social security contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u3	I hope I get into the picture; I'll take my chances. What is and is not part of Mr Van Rij's argument? He started by asking a lot of questions to the Secretary of State about the current level of enforcement and its improvement. But with what he just said, he seemed to be taking an advance on that. He seemed to assume in advance that there would be no such improvement and that there would be a lack of enforcement. Am I getting that right? If so, where is Mr Van Rij's confidence based on the fact that the new regime will substantially improve enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u4	I would suggest that I keep the tension on the last question. I will come to that, because I have not finished my speech. In reply to the first question, I deliberately ask the Secretary of State to explain very well here again and to argue why he is currently unable to enforce the law with clients because of that safeguard, while I also ask him to think carefully about it, given the parliamentary history of this bill, explaining why lighter forms of burden of proof, other than bad faith, will not work. Then you can say I'm taking an advance on the Secretary of State's answer. Well, that depends. If the Secretary of State comes up with an answer with which he cannot convince us on that point, then we will have to consider it. Anyway, I don't want to take an advance on that. The CDA Group in the First Chamber therefore supports the direction taken by the Secretary of State during the parliamentary debate in the Lower House: from a Decree no salary charge, the original proposal, to up to six model agreements and up to twenty sectoral examples agreements. In addition, taxpayers can always submit individual agreements to the Tax Administration in advance. This is a direction which shows that this Secretary of State has listened to what has been brought in from the market, from interest groups and, of course, from the Lower House as an objection to the first proposal for a decision, not a wage charge. Last Saturday, however, there were only three model agreements and thirteen sector-specific agreements on the Tax Administration website. When will the remaining three model agreements and seven exemplary sectoral agreements, as promised in the letter of 16 November last to this Chamber? The support of the CDA Group is not unconditional. We assume that the Tax Administration does not carry out checks on clients and contractors who follow one of the model contracts or one of the sector examples agreements. In this sense, the new system really has to work as "pre-security'. We are not yet convinced of that. Too many signals reach us that in the preparatory phase, the Tax Administration is salting too many snails and discussing them in very detail with sectors. That's not the right spirit. Of course, we are against abuse. But in the future it will be easier for the tax authorities to take action against this than it is at present. However, the members of the CDA Group assume, as the Secretary of State stated in the written replies of 18 January last, that there is no cause for concern in situations of good faith. We therefore assume that there will be no witch hunt forzzp'ers, neither on the side of the clients, nor on the side of the contractors. In the opinion of the CDA Group, 90% of these cases are good faith. What is lacking so far is how in the implementation the Tax Administration will take enforcement action. A enforcement plan should therefore be part of the transition phase. The enforcement plan will have to set out criteria for risk-oriented enforcement. Can the Secretary of State therefore make a firm commitment that an enforcement policy will be drawn up in the short term and will be shared with the relevant interest groups and also accessible to each client and contractor, directly during the transition phase and beyond? With regard to legal certainty, the CDA Group is very concerned about the extent to which the model agreements and exemplary sector agreements have not only been reviewed under tax law, but also under civil law. Surely it cannot be the case that an approved model or model sector agreement will be tax-approved as a contract of employment by the Tax Administration, while there is a civil contract of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u5	I'm intrigued by the idea of a civil-law review, but I'm not a lawyer. I ask myself what Mr Van Rij can mean by that. In my opinion, again, I'm not a lawyer..... is a civil-law review which ultimately takes place by the court. How does Mr Van Rij intend to make an effective advance on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u6	By the remark I have made and the question that remains to be asked, I mean that the three model agreements published so far have been drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and interest groups. That happened very strongly with fiscal glasses on. I want security from the Secretary of State that has not only been looked at taxation. Finally, we have three main forms of labour law: the contract of employment, the contract of employment and the contract of employment. Of course, it's about the last situation. There are now three forms of this. I want to make sure that civil law can also cope with the criticism in advance. In practice, so in society there will be all kinds of situations as they are now, where a contractor will in some cases say: we have agreed on paper, but the facts and circumstances are different and everything indicates that there is a relationship of authority. The conclusion could then be that it is an employment contract, with all its consequences. Of course, that's for the judge to decide. But I would not like us to say in advance: there is a question of civil law in this model agreement. That is the background to my question. I am very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u7	If I understand Mr Van Rij correctly, we both recognize that the ultimate judgment is up to the judge. In that sense, the ex ante review can therefore only be a provisional one. If no factual circumstances change at all, but content is given to the present appointment, there can still be a different judgment between those making the appointment and the judge who is going to review it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u8	Yes, but that is where we have to make a difference between tax law and civil law. In tax law, the model agreements provide tax security. At least that's how I see it; I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if it's any other way. For tax law, instead of the legal certainty that exists today, you will gain legal certainty. Let us see you as the client, Mr Rinnooy Kan, and me as the contractor; I find that so charming. We conclude such a contract of assignment and follow exactly one of the model agreements. I'm going to work for you, and you and I aren't being harassed by the IRS because there's no reason for that. After all, we are sticking to the model agreement. That's legal certainty. But, now there are situations occurring during that relationship. You're getting a little more authoritarian as a client than you were supposed to be. Now I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u9	Maybe we should switch roles then!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u10	You're gonna give some instructions. Where we started so well, it ends less. I hire a lawyer and say: wait a minute, this was a contract of engagement, but I had to show up at work on Monday morning at half past nine and could not leave for five hours on Friday afternoon; Mr Rinnooy Kan wrote me exactly what I had to do. Then, in the first instance, there is an issue of civil law. You say: I don't want Van Rij anymore; it goes out. I say yes, I got fired, because this was a contract of employment. Civil law and tax law can be separated there, as is the case with many other doctrines. I just want to know, in advance of the Secretary of State, whether the model agreements are in line with current law. That is the background to my question. What the practice is will tell the casuistics. Madam President. We are somewhat concerned that the approved exemplary sector agreements, which have so far been approved by the Tax Administration, have not been reviewed by other departments of industry. Suppose Secretary of State Van Rijn makes a different assessment of the content of an example sector agreement for healthcare professionals than Secretary of State Wiebes. Then there are two different agreements, if the qualifications are different. That is not good for the peace and clarity we have been promised. The government has to speak with one voice. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to what extent the model agreements have been tested in civil law and if there has been sufficient consultation with the other departments of the trade. I would like to receive a detailed explanation of this. Since this is a major implementation operation, we support the plans for the transition period, as set out in the letter of 16 November 2015. We think it is a real gain that the legislative proposal, which has been passed by the House of Representatives and is now before us, has been made much clearer by a number of critical questions raised by this Chamber about the transition period. We warmly welcome the comprehensive communication campaign, as well as the cautious control policy in the implementation phase. Still, the homework isn't complete yet. We consider the preparatory phase, which runs until 1 April 2016, too short and consider it crucial that it be extended until 31 December 2016. For example, current VAR legislation can continue to apply throughout 2016. This will allow all interest groups, market players and the Tax Administration to prepare themselves ideally for the new legislation. This improves legal certainty and is part of a careful transition. Thereafter, the implementation phase could run from 1 January 2017 to 30 June 2017, so that no new VARs will be issued after 1 January 2017. For the CDA, an extension of the transition period is crucial. Is the Secretary of State prepared to extend the transition period, as proposed by the CDA Group? The conclusion is therefore that the support of the CDA Group depends on the commitments the State Secretary intends to make in terms of enforcement, legal certainty and implementation. The CDA Group is therefore looking forward to its answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u11	I listened with great interest to Mr Van Rij's speech and questions. His questions are particularly about maintaining, also towards the future. The position of thezzp'er is close to our heart. Does the CDA have a view on how the position of thezzp'er changes under the law now and how it will be under the DBA Act? Are there greater adverse effects linked to the introduction of that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u12	I think the intention of this law is, in the words of the Secretary of State he used in the House of Representatives, that we should abolish the circus of the VAR. At the moment, 800,000 VARs are being issued. As I said in my speech: as a VAR entrepreneur, that does not mean that he is profiting from business. That is an indication, but afterwards he has to fill in his own income tax return note or a corporate tax return note if it goes through the e.g. Then he must make sure that what he wrote in the VAR was actually the reality. In that sense, nothing changes at all. The criteria of whether you are an entrepreneur and profit from a company or that you have an e.g. and through which you acquire orders and thereby generate revenue and profits are not discussed here. For thezzp'er nothing changes at that point. Those who are now in a situation of false self-employment, in my opinion, are about 10% of the 500,000; I would like to hear what the Secretary of State says about this. They will have to ask themselves whether they are morezzp's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u13	I would like to remind Mr Van Rij of his commitment to explain once again where his confidence in enforcement comes from under the new regime. He hasn't, so I'm gonna ask him to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u14	That is my general confidence in the functioning of the Tax Administration in this country. The Netherlands has a very reliable Tax Service in this respect. The Netherlands has a rather unique culture that an agreement with the Tax Administration is really an agreement that must be respected from both sides. I see it as follows, but I have asked a number of questions about it. If you, as a taxpayer, comply with that model agreement, that also means that the inspector will abide by it. A lot of countries don't know that. I can do a lot of digging, but I won't. The Dutch Tax Administration, of course, also has the policy of horizontal supervision, which is based on mutual trust and transparency. Those are two key concepts. In that spirit, I see this bill. I am not a blind optimist, but I share that confidence in the tax administration's policy, which I have been dealing with in practice for 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u15	Maybe there's been a misunderstanding about the word "enforceability." This is not about the extent to which the tax authorities comply with the agreements, but about the extent to which we can effectively catch those who do not comply with the agreements. The question is why Mr Van Rij thinks that this will be better under the new regime than under the old regime. In this connection, I ask him whether it means anything to him that the cabinet itself does not estimate the effects of budgetary revenue. There, at least, there is not too much confidence in the great impact of this new regime, especially if it were to be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u16	I would like to answer that last question immediately. I think that's very sensible of the cabinet. In recent decades, we have experienced too often that much too easily revenue is collected from fraud. I think this is sensible from the point of view of caution. I don't think it's an indication not to start maintaining. I would like to await the answers of the Secretary of State to the questions I have asked. I now assume that the Tax Administration will come up with an enforcement policy. I've argued for this, too. This means that the service will maintain risk-oriented. In my opinion, this can be nothing but that he is aiming at that 10% and not at that 90%. That is a great improvement with what it is like now, because now it is not maintained because the burden of proof is too heavy. The service can only maintain if there is too bad faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u17	On the latter point, it was suggested in the discussion prior to the DBA by a number of parties that improved enforcement under the current regime would indeed be possible, for example by using a strengthened questionnaire or by a much more direct control by thezzp'ers themselves, using their ib data. Do I understand that Mr Van Rij has no confidence in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u18	If Mr Rinnooy Kan had listened carefully, he would have heard that I deliberately asked the Secretary of State if he saw any possibilities in the existing law, for example with a lighter burden of proof. This is about the clients. If the tax authority checks and sees big differences in some of the 10 million people who report it, because they deduct €10,000 mortgage interest one year and the next year 1 million euros, the computer will spit out that information immediately. There's obviously something going on. However, how do you do that with the 500,000 contractor group, if these people complete their profits from the company or indicate their profits in the e.g.? You'd have to set up an army of two or three thousand civil servants to visit all thosezzp'ers. That seems to me to be a very undesirable situation. Thezzp'ers just have to work. It must be the 10% false self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u19	I'd like to continue the conversation with the Secretary of State, but do not share this assessment for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u20	I'm not surprised. I look forward with interest to Mr Rinnooy Kan's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u21	I hear Mr Van Rij say that it is very important that we tackle false self-employment. I don't think there's much discussion about that. The same applies to the observation that the group is a limited group, he talks about 10% of what is difficult to deal with under the current rules, in particular because the safeguard plays a role in this. Do I understand Mr Van Rij correctly that he prefers that it should be dealt with within the current legislation if possible, for example by fine-tuning another burden of proof or perhaps something in the legislation which makes the safeguard less generic? Does he prefer to enforce the VAR legislation with an adjustment of responsibility over a completely new law, in which we will shoot with a shot shot at all thosezzp'ers? Do I understand Mr Van Rij that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u22	Can we get together on this? Shall we give the Secretary of State for Finance an opportunity to answer my question first? I would like to return to his question in the second term, once I have taken note of the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u23	Of course I would like to agree with Mr Van Rij, but the question is what the weight of his question is. If the weight is that in the context of proportionality you can better tighten up the current law than come up with a new law, we have a different question to ask the Secretary of State than if he would say: if it is not possible, the Secretary of State may do it differently. I'd like to know the weight of his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u24	The weight of all my questions is extremely heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u25	That's very nice, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u26	I have also listened with interest to the story of Mr Van Rij. He's trying to provoke the State Secretary's commitment to extend the transition period. I've taken note of that. Can Mr Van Rij indicate which degrees of freedom he grants to the Secretary of State? If that period shows that it is not all as beautiful as Mr Van Rij hopes it will be, for example becausezzp'ers are being redirected to payroll companies. I'm just mentioning a possible behavior effect that can occur. How far is he willing to go with the degrees of freedom? Can there also be a moment when Mr Van Rij says: to here and no further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u27	That is a very fair question. The plea for the extension of the transition period is, of course, motivated by the fact that this is a major operation. Too often we have seen that the government sometimes thinks too easily about a system change or in this case the abolition of the VAR. There are 500,000 people who are directly affected by this. The great advantage of extending the preparatory phase is that part of the homework can be completed. I can imagine you'd build in an evaluation moment, if that's what Mr. Ester means. It almost embarrasses me, because I think that the Secretary of State himself should indicate how he sees it when the preparatory phase runs until 31 December, as we advocate. In recent weeks we have still received too many outstanding questions from various interest groups. There are also interest groups that are much more positive. I trust that this time will be used well and that market parties will come out in common. If this is not the case and if there are insurmountable objections, I can imagine that you will include an evaluation. Shall we also agree to let the Secretary of State reply first?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u28	In general, I think that is a good strategy. However, as a representative of the CDA, I would like to ask you a direct question: where does the group draw the chalk marks when it comes to the transition period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u29	I understand very well that you want to hear that from me. Of course, you want to hear some very tough statements at this stage, but I would like to let the debate run its course. I want to listen carefully to what you and others, but above all the Secretary of State, have to say. You're gonna have to be patient. I'm not going to speak a strong language in response to your question. This will also be something for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to the questions put by a number of political groups in this Chamber. It provides a moving insight into the progressing process in this dossier from BGL to model agreements, with a rare participation in the tax legislation of thezzp interest groups, but it is about something. It's about no less than "to be or not to be" as a zzp'er. For what problem is this bill DBA the solution? Our group's underlying question is: what is the elephant in the room? That is the explosive growth in the number of malezzp's from now 12% to 19% in 2030 under unchanged policies, especially unchanged fiscal policies. I refer to the CPB report and to the above mentioned ibo report. Several political groups have asked for the link between this DBA bill and the Ibozzp on the position of thezzp'er in the labour market. I quote the Secretary of State's reply. "According to the IBO Working Group, it is desirable to bring the tax burden of entrepreneurs and employees closer together, because the business facilities forzzp'ers have a disruptive effect on the labour market and not all contribute effectively to the objectives pursued by the policy instruments. The Cabinet shares the analysis of the IBO working group that in the longer term the large difference in institutional treatment ofzzp's and employees should be reduced, but considers that this requires a broad political and social debate. The Cabinet is happy to discuss this with your Chamber." Of course, I'd like to pick up that glove in my speech. The Secretary of State continues: "At the level of implementation, the DBA Bill does not have to wait for the results of this broad political and social discussion. The legislative proposal aims to improve enforcement now and in the future. Maintaining the distinction between employees and the self-employed remains relevant in the future. Improving enforcement is a no-regret measure." In this context, the Secretary of State for the Transition Plan speaks about the policy put forward by the interest groups themselves for an alternative to the VAR decisions circus. Those are the words of the ruler in charge. My first question is how he stands in this file himself. Is it an absolute necessity for policy and enforcement, therefore, a no-regret measure, or has it been suggested above all by the interest groups and increasingly taken over by them? I ask this question because first we need to know why the current regime is not enforceable. Several groups have already asked questions in writing about the usefulness and necessity of this proposal because of the doubts about the problems of maintaining the current VAR system. The State Secretary's reply indicates what the VAR is actually intended to do and what the consequences of the system are in fact. That's a good clarification. The answer ends with the conclusion that enforcement that can only be aimed at contractors is a form of mopping with the tap open; we continue to speak graphically even though it is a fiscal debate. So the VAR has one effect in particular. It hinders enforcement by the Tax Administration, according to the State Secretary. But what crane should we be talking about here? I think we should talk about the tax crane that remains wide open forzzp'ers. In this debate it must be primarily about whether or not to maintain the widely open tax faucet forzzp'ers. I would like an answer to this. There are questions not only from our group but also from the Council of State, which criticized this proposal in its opinion in 2014, even before the ibo report came out. The Board also commented on the usefulness and necessity of the proposal and on the website. The Council concluded in 2014 that there is a lack of clarity as to which problem the proposal seeks to solve. The reason for this is that false self-employment is not adequately combated by this proposal in order to be part of business income tax facilities. The benefits of these facilities can be derived as much from the proposed scheme as from the existing one. The Council continues with a second point of criticism, namely the extent of the problem. Mr Van Rij has already spoken about this. Furthermore, according to the Council of State, once again, the arguments of not so long ago to safeguard the client from paying taxes are to promote work forzzp'ers in the current difficult labour market. The Council considered the proposal premature in the light of the ibo report to be expected at the time. The Council considers that further consideration should be given to the proposal. That's a big deal. Can the Secretary of State again address these criticisms of the Council of State? This inevitably brings me to the reaction of the cabinet of 2 October 2015 to the ibo report of April 2015. The mountain of 143 pages of the ibo report gave birth to a mouse with the cabinet response, and the elephant is still in the room. The letter from Asscher and Kamp contains thirteen pages, but there are hardly any policy conclusions. Much is appointed and considered without conclusions, let alone proposals. The key question is skilfully bypassed. Only on the last page the monkey comes out of the sleeve. I quote the cabinet; pay attention to the language. "The ibo report describes a number of solutions and rightly points out that the selection of measures, precise design and measurement depend on political and social preferences. In order to achieve a sustainable and future-proof solution, with broad support, it is necessary to continue this social and political debate." I honestly didn't know it had already started according to the cabinet. In his reply to this bill, the Secretary of State even talked about reducing differences in the longer term. Can he make it clear again why the cabinet has not made any decisions? The cabinet recognizes no urgency to address the issue of decisions, even in order to reach solutions such as the ibo, despite agreements in the coalition agreement. The cabinet comes no further than to discuss the ibo's need for support. And that while the ibo report and the accompanying CPB report show that it is a multi-headed monster. This Chamber has the motion-De Graaf c.s. The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment adopted an own-initiative opinion on the way in which more balanced relations between employees and self-employed workers can be achieved in the labour market. While the labour market is the problem for the future, the cabinet does nothing. Minister Asscher has completely failed on this point, as he does on a number of other labour market dossiers: not deeds but words. I should just like to point out that Asscher's poor policy on older people's unemployment. Last Saturday, the Scientific Bureau of 50PLUS dedicated a symposium on this subject on the basis of a report by SOR. Speakers were Sweer van Wijnbergen, Michael van Straalen, Chairman of the SME Netherlands and Ruud Kuin, Vice-President of the Executive Board of the FNV. The entire report can be read on the website of 50PLUS. The CPB highlights some important aspects of the discussion onzzp'ers and employees. The share of self-employed workers in the labour force has grown sharply. According to the CBS, around 1.1 million people worked at their own expense or risk in 2013, of whom almost 800,000 worked as zzp'ers. This is a doubling compared to 2000. The largest increase occurred in men over 55 years of age: a doubling of 15% to 30%. The growth of the number ofzzp'ers in the Netherlands is three times higher than in Europe, according to the ibo. According to the planning agency, the future growth of the number ofzzp'ers depends on the policy. With full abolition of fiscal policy, the number ofzzp's remains at the 2010 level. In the case of unchanged policies, there is an increase of 12% to 19% in 2030. Tax policy is therefore crucial. The CPB also points out that decomposition analyses show that tax incentives play an important role in the growth of the number ofzzp'ers. Zzp'ers pay much less tax than employees which has a sucking effect. A zzp'er pays €0.45 less tax on each extra euro earned. Over the entire income, less tax is paid byzzp'ers. Half of the difference in the wedge is explained by unpaid contributions unemployment and incapacity for work. The effect of the self-employed deduction of €7,300 is thatzzp'ers net hold 20% more than an employee. Then I'll get to the ibo report. It points out that the Van Dijkhuizen Commission has already concluded that there are no convincing economic arguments for the generic self-employed deduction in the current unfocused form. The ibo states that there is no good reason whyzzp'ers do receive income support and workers do not. There is also a good chance that those who need the support most will miss them because of a weak negotiating position. As a result, the tax advantage goes to the client via a low rate. They will then become cheaper and that will disrupt the labour market. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The ibo report mentions some policy options to reduce the difference in tax burden betweenzzp's and employees. Variant A includes a reduction of the self-employed deduction, which would have a budgetary impact of over 2,100 million in 2016, including the impact on the supplements and the income-dependent care premium. How much is the effect of the self-employed deduction, additional supplements and the lower care premium in those 2,100 million? What is the impact of these three components and the total by 2020 and 2025? The structural impact in 2016 of the self-employed deduction of more than 2 billion and the SME profit exemption of another 1.5 billion bring the total tax relief forzzp's to 3,750 million, almost 4 billion. That is almost as much as the very large reduction in taxes for workers, which we have been talking about here recently. So it's about something. The self-employed deduction not only leads to lower taxes, but also to a lower AOW premium. Can an overview be given of the income tax payable and AOW premium forzzp'ers with an income of €10,000, €20,000, €25,000 and €30,000? A separate proposal is to convert the self-employed into a tax rebate. This would mean that the effects on the assessment income, on the allowances and also on the lower basis of the care premium would disappear. The deduction now leads to higher allowances and a lower care premium. That's a double advantage. This DBA proposal is in fact about the status quo, about the maintenance of tax support, for which a new enforcement system of model agreements is being established. I focus on the underlying problem, the two facilities. 40 years ago, in 1975, as Secretary of State for Finance, I introduced the self-employed deduction, with a modest starting amount of 1,200 guilders, in order to meet the tax burden on companies of smaller self-employed workers, farmers and middlemen in the heavy income tax system, which was pressing on the high false profits resulting from the towering inflation of that time. This led to a paper value increase on which tax had to be paid. At the time, the cabinet intended to help self-employed people with a company and staff and thereby to promote employment. There was a high level of unemployment at the time. Over the years, the self-employed deduction has grown to almost €7,300. This deduction is increasingly an unfocused tax subsidy and exerts a magical appeal on the self-employed one-pitter. My question remains as to why, following the ibo report, the cabinet did not take the cow by the horns in the interests of the labour market. Why has it not decided, on the basis of the ibo report, to make a significant gradual reduction in business facilities forzzp'ers and to adapt the social insurance laws forzzp'ers? For example, a poverty trap can be avoided forzzp's, especially for the group over 50 to 55 years of age. This group has for years had no social safety net for employee insurance and has therefore long been condemned to assistance. After that, he does not have a substantial supplementary pension. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Among older workers, the number ofzzp'ers has increased the most, especially after the crisis. If the cabinet continues to look away from the approach to tax income support, the number of employees will continue to increase exponentially, with disastrous consequences for the collective sector, for income tax and public insurance revenues, but also for the support of employee insurance and pension systems, with fewer and fewer employees. Assistance payments will also increase significantly. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u31	I assume that Mr Van Rooijen has just finished his contribution. If he doesn't, he'll have to apologize for rushing me to this microphone a little early. Mr Van Rooijen spoke on page 11 of his contribution to preventing a poverty trap forzzp'ers, especially for the group over the age of 50 to 55. In his earlier speech, I only heard him talk about abolishing tax facilities. Now he suddenly switches to preventing a poverty trap forzzp'ers. That actually brings me to the question I asked Mr Van Rij earlier, but from a slightly different angle. Thus, Mr Van Rooijen apparently sees a lot of positive effects for thezzp'er when the situation is continued, but he also sees a poverty trap of 50 to 55 years of age. How does he rhyme with these differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u32	I understand that question very well. I'm struggling with this problem myself. I referred to the Symposium and the report by SEOR, in which a good explanation is given in 80 pages. We have seen, in particular, that, as a result of the crisis, workers over 65, later than 55 and now over 50 or even over 45 years of age, are no longer active in the form of employees. As a result, they are often forced into azzp-ship. They don't want to, but they have to. They want to keep taking care of themselves and their families or anyone else. I have noted that this is a new major social problem. It concerns a number of people in the 50 to 55 age group who are no longer in an employee situation after the crisis, thus losing the employee security of insurance. They are in a difficult market and must act beggingly on the labour market. They work at ever lower rates. This often brings them below the social minimum. That group is getting much bigger very quickly and is also getting into bigger and bigger problems. After they're done with the employee, these people no longer have employee insurance. They lead an insecure and poor social existence in thatzzp-ship. As soon as this, for whatever reason, stops or leads to a very low income, they will get into the assistance very quickly. They are also increasingly involved in the assistance, as retirement age and the AOW age are getting higher and higher. I would point out that this has a major impact on the financing of the collective sector and on the people who have been employed after 10 or 20 years. For the record, it is a good thing that we have tax facilities for entrepreneurs. I am certainly the one who recognized the need for this at the time. It's very good that that facility stayed. However, all reports point out that there will be a discrepancy. The Central Planning Office has asked the Cabinet to take a fundamental look at this. The ibo report also asks for it. The cabinet itself indicated this in the coalition agreement. My speech in the last 15 minutes focused exclusively on this. The ibo report provides policy variants. For example, you can also limit or abolish the self-employed deduction in a period of 10 years. It is also mentioned that an increase in the reduction in working hours can play an important role in this process. However, that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u33	Mr Van de Ven, would you like to ask a further question? Shortly, please. Mr Van Rooijen, I would also like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u34	Mr Van Rooijen's whole speech is therefore aimed at expressing the urgent need for fiscal facilities in the growth market of thezzp'ers. Is that conclusion correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u35	That conclusion is precisely that a tax facility can have a function for stimulating entrepreneurship. The only question is how far you go, how you do that and how it relates to the contribution of the workers and the elderly, who have no facilities at all, to the collective sector. Also note the effect on the AOW premium. Let us be honest: these business facilities mean that an entrepreneur pays significantly less tax, especially in the case of a lower income, but also significantly less AOW premium, while in due course he is entitled to the full AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u36	I follow Mr Van Rooijen's fundamental considerations with great interest. In my opinion, he is really taking an advance on the fundamental debate that we should have had under the leadership of the cabinet. So be it, at least for now. I actually think that his last few minutes mainly illustrate how complex the matter is. I do not want to leave one footnote unplaced, namely that I wonder where his estimate comes from that the number of opposingzzp'ers, the self-employed against will and thanks, has increased as much as he suggests. The ESC has carried out research into this phenomenon. However, it has been shown over and over again that it does indeed occur, but that the percentage was surprisingly low. There is no need for a comprehensive response, but I would like to make this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u37	Maybe I can recommend Mr Rinnooy Kan and my colleagues to read the report by SEOR last Saturday, which is on our website. It shows the worrying developments on this dossier in terms of older people's unemployment. Thezzp-situation plays a role in this, as the number ofzzp'ers increases most among the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u38	I listened to this speech with great interest and admiration. I'm just a simple theologian myself. So these kinds of high-tax realities actually escape me a little bit. However, I try to understand what is happening. I simply share the importance of the fundamental discussion. My question is this. There is now a legislative proposal to abolish the VAR and propose a new system. From Mr Van Rooijen's speech, I have tried to understand what he thinks about the legislative proposal. Honestly, I don't have a clear picture of that yet. Could he tell me that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u39	But briefly, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u40	That can be done very briefly, because Mr Van Rij has already been confronted with that question. I wanted to conclude with this; it was the last sentence I was going to say. Mr Van de Ven had made a good assessment of this. I would like the Secretary of State to answer the fundamental questions I have put to the Secretary of State. We've been going through him a little longer in this house. I think he is more capable than the cabinet of giving it a good fundamental consideration. On the basis of his answers, I will then give my group's opinion on this proposal in the second term. In short, my group awaits with interest the reply of the Secretary of State to our questions on the real cause of the enforcement problem. In reply to Mr Ganzevoort's question, I would like to say that we share the Secretary of State's concerns about enforcement in the current system. We only think that if you think about a solution, you have to ask the fundamental question first whether and, if so, how you can solve it and if you do not, you will be weary, and that is unfortunately what we are talking about today, and we have to look at what is still required in a sort of "no regret" atmosphere. My final word, also in reply to Mr Ganzevoort, is that we are actually dealing here with couriers am Symptom, but I would like to make that remark in asking form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. The Law deregulation review labour relations has a tempting name and a long history. It is short, contains only ten articles, fits on three A4s and extends to the abolition of the VAR, the employment relationship declaration, which provides employers' clients with a guarantee of employers' wages. As a welcome alternative to the BGL Act, which no one really could charm, this law passed without much difficulty the House of Representatives. This afternoon and tonight, this Chamber is subjecting him to a final quality judgment. Is there an urgent problem behind us? Does this law, including the associated alternative to the VAR, resolve the system of pre-approved model agreements by the Tax Administration in a timely and effective manner? Are there any undesirable side effects? On these and related questions, I would like to try to express the views of my group. The underlying problem and the reason for the cabinet proposal is undoubtedly the fight against bogus self-employment, the non-payment of wages and the abuse of tax facilities by self-employed workers who are in fact hidden workers. The legal definition of false self-employment is an extremely difficult task, and more so later. But my first observation is that we still know surprisingly little about the scale of the problem, despite previous statements at this session. The often mentioned modest percentages of between 2 and 14 are also based on very limited research. Contrary to what might be expected in the case of improved enforcement, the cabinet does not come into office, as I said earlier, with a planned budgetary return from the improved approach. This confirms the impression of a very modest problem or of a very limited improvement. Of course, we can do both. Was enforcement within the old system really such an impossible task? Secretary of State Wiebes thinks so; his great irritation is that clients could always stay out of sight. But my group is not convinced of that. After all, the VAR only offers protection in good faith, and the Tax Administration can indeed impose post-taxes if the client could reasonably have suspected that the employment was performed. I can best illustrate this in the light of the example the Secretary of State himself mentions. If the VAR of a contractor is withdrawn, he writes, the client can immediately replace it with the next of a VAR provided contractor, and then the Tax Administration should start again from the outset. On the contrary, I would think that the client who reacts in this way is an excellent example of bad faith and can therefore be called upon to do so. Why in 2007 could a pension fund successfully have a proposed contract of employment with the Hoge Raad designated as a de facto contract of employment and could the Tax Administration not manage to do so? How often has the Tax Administration actually entered into the legal fight to the highest possible level?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u42	Is Mr Rinnooy aware that there is a difference between labour law and tax law? There is no safeguard in labour law, but there is a safeguard in tax law. It is precisely for this reason that the legislative proposal seeks to remove the protection of the client from tax law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u43	I come back extensively to the tension between labour law and tax law, but my point will be that this tension will not disappear in the new regime either, but will continue to cause problems, whether unabated or even more severe, than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u44	I have a question for Mr Rinnooy Kan who focuses on the issue of bad faith. In the event of bad faith, there must be intent, conditional intent, a deliberate intent. That is a very heavy burden of proof. Mr Rinnooy Kan has undoubtedly thought about how it should be, because he suggests something, including the terminology that if there could reasonably be... He asks the question to the Secretary of State, but he has undoubtedly also thought about how the lighter burden of proof should take shape in the General Law on State Taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u45	My argument is twofold. My general theme is indeed, as Mr Van Rij rightly says, that enforcement under the current regime can be more effective than it is. In addition, I am in good company with various experts. Let me give you one example: Mr Rietveld of Ernst & Young is in that list, a well-known company. However, I am not going to leave it at that. It is precisely my example that illustrates, I hope, the point I am trying to make. A client who finds that the VAR is withdrawn from a contractor because there appears to be an employment relationship and who immediately thereafter has another contractor do the same work with a VAR, is, in my firm conviction and in so far as I may contribute any intuition to doing so in bad faith, and could therefore be addressed in this very concrete and also mentioned example by the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u46	As far as the latter is concerned, we await the reply of the Secretary of State. With all due respect, I happen to know Mr Rietveld, too. Let him not be an expert in the field of formal tax law, let him be an expert in the field of wage taxation and social insurance. The question is formal in nature. The question is whether the current burden of proof in the event of bad faith, which is heavy, could have a lighter form. In any case, I did not receive an answer from Mr Rinnooy Kan. I have checked the literature, but I have not received an answer from Mr Rietveld either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u47	I will not enter into Mr Van Rij's discussions with Mr Rietveld. In any case, I would like to add a comment to what I have just said. My point is once again that enforcement under the current regime could be improved. Suppose it would be necessary to equip the Tax Administration better than is currently the case to be able to effectively maintain in the current system, for example by looking critically in the formal regulations at the burden of proof that is supposed to be able to identify "too bad faith." I could have imagined that the Secretary of State would have paid attention to this. My group would have liked to have been willing to take part and listen favourably to proposals in this direction. Even if the current regime would make it relatively difficult for the Tax Administration in this respect, it would still be conceivable that an adjustment of the current regime could be better maintained than it is now. That is precisely the nature of various proposals. For example, it has been proposed to review the questionnaire that plays a role in the delivery of the VAR itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u48	Mr Van Rij, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u49	I'll be brief. I suggest that Mr Rinnooy Kan and I have asked the same question to the Secretary of State. Only I am waiting for the answer and he already knows what the Secretary of State's answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u50	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u51	Then we'll both wait for the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u52	I admit, however, that I have a certain opinion in advance. I am happy to be corrected and contradicted. Mr. Chairman. Once I have raised the question about the state system again, I note that the option of enforcement under the current regime could have been taken seriously. I'll follow up with my summary. We are talking about a relatively small problem, statistically speaking, and as far as I am concerned, we are talking about relatively underutilised enforcement. The question is whether the new approach to the model agreements is necessary. Under their increased liability, which the Secretary of State is so proud of, will it be easier to catch? Everything stands or falls with enforcement in the workplace; we all know that. It has already been noted that a plan for this is still lacking. My group, like the Council of State, still has serious doubts. I'll give you one reason for that. It is extremely easy for malicious clients to avoid wage charges by, for example, giving the contractor the contractual possibility of free replacement and thus avoiding an essential element of the contract of employment, and the Secretary of State cannot do anything about that. My assessment is that it is precisely the bottom of the labour market that suffers or suffers seriously in the new regime, however unintentionally. But our doubts are broader. They are equally fed by our assessment of how bona fide clients will react to this new system. The word "uncertainty" is central to this. Where did this uncertainty come from? Bonafide clients have so far been able to rely with justice and reason on the protection offered by the VAR. That protection's gonna go away. Instead, official co-responsibility is combined with a model agreement which, by definition, does not want and cannot provide any formal legal certainty. A small and untimely deviation from that agreement at the workplace can be fatal, and it is still a question of how easy it is to recover the premiums to be collected from the client on the contractor. Moreover, there is a very limited view of the way in which the Tax Administration is enforced, and where that view exists, it does not cheerfully. Let me take another example from the Secretary of State himself: if the contractor is equally using an instrument from the employer if he has forgotten his own instrument at home, then that can be ignored, provided that I quote "the client or contractor can prove that there is an incident'. Here comes an orwellian perspective that the forgetful contractor will not look forward to. This uncertainty is underlined by the model agreements themselves which are now available. The generic agreements aim to provide for a wide range of situations, but this makes it almost impossible for them to fail in a precise representation of reality, again with all possible fatal consequences. The contracts are simply and inevitably full of open standards and vague provisions which the Tax Administration can easily regard as contrary to that reality afterwards. Let me illustrate this with another example from the Secretary of State himself: the model agreement which should allow temporary replacement by an independent person can very well serve if the person to be replaced is an independent practical holder, but not when it comes to temporary replacement of a regular worker with special skills, for example in the event of illness or pregnancy. And so a thriving independent practice is threatened. There is much more to be said about these generic agreements. For example, the model agreement does not seem to have a strong employer's authority in relation to contract texts that were massively presented by consultants in the 1990s in attempts to join the statutory contract of assignment, but which nevertheless in practice led to massive post-taxation by the Tax Administration. Where does the Secretary of State derive the confidence that it could suddenly be so? Professor Westerveld, my colleague from Amsterdam, has also pointed out the shortcomings of the generic contracts before us, which, in her opinion, sometimes burden the contractor with all kinds of risks, and then seem to be so close to regular contracts of employment that it is only the question whether the judge will ultimately refer to them as such as to refer to them as being subject to civil law review, so that the contractors can then enforce all lusts of employment without paying the burden and even be subject to collective agreement on the basis of European case law. I also say to Mrs Sent that there is a danger of an impossible legal gap between taxation and labour law. I would like to receive the comments of the Secretary of State on this situation, a situation in which, for example, a client who has received a hard tax guarantee from the Tax Office is suddenly told by the judge that he is an employer after all. What's he gonna do next? What about his financial obligations? I would like to remind you of the model agreement for care, which, after a long time, seems to have been stranded again in conflict with the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. It's an almost potty display.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u53	I put the following question to Mr Rinnooy Kan in order to understand him properly. Does he suggest that if this bill actually becomes a law, it will create an increasing discrepancy between tax law and civil law compared to the situation under the current law? In other words, could there not be such a discrepancy now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u54	I wouldn't want to use the word "discreepance." I want to use the word "voltage." There is an inherent tension in our system between the different legal perspectives on the position of the self-employed in relation to the position of the worker. The frontier between contracts of employment and contract contracts is already thin. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. That border's been shiny for a long time. The VAR was created for a reason. That thinning limit remains; it is a reality. The system of model agreements will mainly make the thinness of that border more visible and visible, with all the consequences of that. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u55	So Mr Rinnooy Kan says that under current labour law the difference between a contract of employment and a contract of employment is often thin in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u56	That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u57	That's not gonna change because of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u58	That will certainly not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u59	Then we come to the issue of enforcement, which we have just discussed. The current tax legislation is not enforced when it comes to the VAR. Does Mr Rinnooy think that this is a desirable situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u60	You didn't hear me say that at all. I think that I am mainly using this observation as a basis, as far as necessary, for my statement that the problem we are talking about now is much deeper. Indeed, it is precisely because of the existing arrangements in our labour market, which under the current regime, but also under the future regime, will give rise to lasting substantial tensions between tax law and labour law and therefore require a much more fundamental review than is currently the case. Then, of course, the follow-up question, on which Mr Van Rij has already made an advance, or perhaps not really, is whether the situation is so tragically bad that we cannot wait and do something. But this is my perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u61	I also said in my first term, and I agree with you on this point. What it does not regulate is a new vision of labour law. I think that's where the dilemma lies. We can maintain the current law until the revision comes that you want and which I want, because society is asking for, with the consequence that the current tax law is not enforced. But you have been clear in your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u62	Given the grey area that Mr Rinnooy Kan describes between labour law and tax law, I am very curious whether he has any ideas within the context of the current legislative proposal on how to better define that grey area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u63	The simple answer to this question is: that cannot be done, because we are dealing with tax legislation at its best. We are talking precisely about the combination of both perspectives. If this is to be improved, I am sure that we will not be able to escape a rethink of the labour law part of it. That is not the case at the moment. The question is at best whether or not we can afford to exercise a little more patience and wait for it. I continue and note that, of course, some improvements can be made. I say that in advance, because, of course, anything that is bad now can get a little better. Further work can be done on specific model agreements, of which hundreds are now under discussion, I have been told. There may be thousands of them, each of which offers only real certainty with 100% strict compliance. In short, it is a perspective that deviates rather sharply from the orderality on which the House of Representatives wanted to cooperate. As far as I am concerned, the D of DBA, the D of Deregulation, has completely lost all its glow. But that uncertainty won't go away. This uncertainty is an inherent and inseparable part of this matter. Not only does the Tax Administration base its final judgment on where, unlike under the VAR, the actual entrepreneurship of the contractor is hardly going to play a role over what is going on in reality; so does the bourgeois judge to whom the final judgment is made. It does so in independence and often with surprising results, and it also makes entrepreneurship very difficult. The boundary between the regular contract of employment and the contract of employment with the corresponding powers of instruction..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The same applies to the frontier between self-employed and self-employed, which is at the heart of our problem. The Law extension legal effects VAR came for a reason. What prevailed before the VAR, which also gave rise to the VAR, is now threatening to return to full force: uncertainty, uncertainty, inevitable uncertainty. It is that largely inevitable uncertainty that will have its unfortunate impact on the post-VAR labour market. That is exactly the assessment I would like to draw attention to. Unfortunately, because nothing indicates that Minister Asscher will be well served in his relatively vain battle so far against what is called "exploited flexibilisation." Nothing, but nothing, indicates that the DBA approach will lead to new permanent jobs. And everything, but everything, points out that this approach can only lead to a loss of quantity and quality of employment for the self-employed. Quantity, when clients combine this new uncertainty with all the uncertainties that already exist for them and still abandon a project or fall back on an unpaid volunteer. Quality, when clients transfer their risks to intermediaries, who are honoured at the expense of the already often lean income of thezzp'er, or when clients switch to other and certainly not preferable forms of flexibility, such as one-hour contracts. I have already mentioned the equally sad effects at the bottom of the labour market. Those who still have doubts about all these side effects have recently been helped out of the dream by Het Financieele Dagblad. Contrary to what the Secretary of State suggests, the SEOR study he cited, however outdated, does indeed provide evidence for this. Is he really blind to these effects? I'm not going to be the only one who recently received an enormous amount of mail from worriedzzp'ers and clients. It is that inherent uncertainty that confronts us with what our real task is: a fundamental rethink of the design of our labour market. Maybe we actually agree with each other. The position of the self-employed has become insanely complicated. The perspective varies depending on whether the starting point is chosen in tax law, in labour law, in the Civil Code or in competition law. Our laws and regulations reflect the labour market that was, not the labour market that is, let alone the labour market that becomes. How can the Secretary of State disagree with that? The task of rethinking is a key task for the legislator, which has remained for too long. I fully agree with the previous speakers. This Chamber recognized this, among other things, when the De Graaf motion was supported, in which the cabinet was asked for a response to the Ibozzp which would rise above the easy call for a broad social debate, the ultimate wastebasket of politics. At first, the cabinet shamelessly pretended not to have understood that question correctly, and then, despite interim pressure, it still did not want to answer the question. That same cabinet is now putting this Chamber under pressure of time to respond urgently to a proposal that should have been at its best a final piece of the complete reasoning and certainly not a rattling advance. The new labour market will demand new forms of enforcement, which is all we can predict. At the very least, this Chamber should therefore decide to hold on to this plan of Secretary of State Wiebes until the cabinet has done its real homework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u64	Did I hear correctly that Mr Rinnooy Kan said that this Chamber was requested to respond urgently to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u65	Certainly, and in the end we have had to postpone twice. Now there is time pressure again to reach a timeline of April 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u66	It is true that, after the submission, there has been a very long period of time with many written rounds and answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u67	Of course, but every time with the communication that the introduction should take place quickly in the future, and that is why timely treatment would be extremely desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u68	I take it that Mr Rinnooy does not find it so strange that, if something has been postponed twice, the request finally comes to an end. Does Mr Rinnooy not agree with me that, if this Chamber does not think it is good enough, it can simply agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u69	Of course, I think so, but I would have hoped that the cabinet would have spent this hugely long interim period more usefully on the fundamental rethink that some parties here appreciate. As far as I am concerned, therefore, 'hold on', but if the judgment is reached now, it will be clear by now that my group has very serious doubts. Doubt as to whether a serious problem is being tackled effectively here, doubt which begins with the question of whether there is a serious problem at all and whether, if it exists, it could not be dealt with as well or better in the current system. Doubt about the already visible uncertainty effects on clients, which threatenszzp'ers at the heart of their economic existence. Doubt about the threat of hardening at the bottom of the labour market. And doubt as to whether all the time, energy and creativity already invested in this plan and still need to be invested in it could not be spent much better on one of the major challenges for Dutch politics: the reform of our labour market. In the meantime, we've survived ten years with the VAR. It didn't ruin the country. We'll be fine for a while. Surely it's not true that the IRS has already disabled the VAR software before the First Chamber has made a decision? Who is actually getting better from the proposal before us? No one, I'm afraid. Not the opponents of the flexibilisation that has gone through, such as the trade union movement, for example. He now hopes to be able to make collective agreements forzzp tariffs, but will be disappointed by the ACM and by the European judge. At the bottom of the labour market, where there is a real improvement, it will see displacement increase rather than decrease. Not the bona fide clients, who look at increased risks and increased burdens. What do you mean, deregulation? At best, as the only one, the Tax Administration, which, with 60 retrained colleagues, might get a bit easier as a single ruler in the grey area between self-employed and employee. Is that our core mission now? Our core task is, of course, the final assessment of a bill and its effects. Those who certainly do not seem to be getting better are the large numbers of bona fidezzp'ers, the enterprising self-employed in all those positions in an economy like ours that requires appropriate flexibility. They face a great risk of a major deterioration in their already fragile economic position. They would be the only victims of all the uncertainty that threatens to create this plan. They would see their chances of decent work falling, whereas they did not deserve it. That prospect is very difficult for D66 to digest. As always, I look forward with sincere interest to the response of the Secretary of State, including to a few remaining technical questions, such as the post-VAR divergences between wage taxation and VAT. My key question is whether the Secretary of State recognizes and recognises the risks identified by the D66 Group in his proposal. Anyone who does so will certainly understand our great doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u70	At the General Political Reviews is the motion-De Graaf c.s. (34300-C) adopted. How much does Mr Rinnooy Can not implement not to say ignore such an important motion adopted in this Chamber on the biggest issue that we have to face in recent times, but also in the future: the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u71	We can be brief about that. I share the view expressed by Mr Van Rooijen, who has been expressed by almost all the other speakers, that it is very important that this discussion should start. Assuming that we still find that in a large majority, is the practical question before us: is it wise to take the step that is proposed and advocated here or not? However you turn it or turn it, the risks that result from it and that are now convincingly documented and perceptible are so substantial that my consideration at this time would be a different one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u72	Do you see with us an opportunity to increase the pressure on the cabinet in this debate today on this main problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u73	We'll see. It won't be me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u74	In addressing the root causes of the problem we are discussing today, is it possible for Mr Rinnooy to discuss converting the self-employed into a tax rebate, as suggested by Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u75	I'm not taking an advance on such a big subject in the few seconds I'm left. I look forward to that big debate with my group, but it is complicated. The complexity was beautifully illustrated by the words of Mr Van Rooijen himself. I would like to have the debate, but at the right time and fed by the right views because of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u76	Madam President. In 1964 Bob Dylan sang The times they are a-changen'. In 2016, this statement is no less true. In 1964 the employee went on a bike with his tupperware sandwich drum and thermos bottle with tea or coffee in his clipper bag on his way to work. The employer took care of the retention and payment of his payroll tax and social security contributions. The employee cycled to his retirement date. He was in a cage that was gilded more and more with pay rounds, protection against dismissal, minimum wage, minimum holiday allowance, Working Conditions Act, Working Time Act etc., etc. from the mid 1960s onwards. In 2016, around 800,000 self-employed people earn their main income in the Netherlands. In addition, according to the Ibo zzp of April 2015, there are another 600,000 zzp's who earn extra money in addition to their job as self-employed. Together, this represents about 18% of the total labour force. The number ofzzp'ers is increasing. Zzp'ers are irresistible and my group has great respect for them. Freedom, independence and self-responsibility for and satisfaction about a successful job are driving citizens to choose to work as zzp'ers. Income-technically,zzp'ers have tax entrepreneurial facilities, such as start-up deductions, self-employment deductions and the SME profit exemption. On the other hand, there are reduced protection schemes than apply to the employee. You have to have the guts to face the challenge and want to bezzp'er. Clients on their side like to engagezzp'ers because of their flexibility and specialist knowledge. From an administrative point of view, for entrepreneurs,zzp'ers reduce the "loring services": no employer's burden, such as deduction and payment of the wage charges in the gross net wage path, no lease car of the business, but also no application of the tax work cost regime, no further training at the cost of the business, etc., etc. Citizens who choose to work as zzp'ers represent the liberal anchors of freedom, independence and self-responsibility for the VVD Group. In short:zzp'ers personify the will to take control of and optimize their own destiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u77	I follow Mr Van de Ven's speech. He sketches an image of thezzp'er who stands up for the highly educated, well-paid consultant etc. etc. But he doesn't miss thezzp'er at the bottom of the labour market, for whom a leasing car isn't even on the agenda, for whom there aren't all that kind of gold-edged possibilities, freedom etc. Are? I am thinking of the people who function as a zzp'er because otherwise they will not get to work at all in construction, mail, home care etc. Does Mr Van de Ven also have an eye for this group ofzzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u78	With all due respect, Mr Ganzevoort has not yet heard part of my speech. I'm getting to the point he's making. In doing so, the VVD is aware that a minority of the group ofzzp'ers are affected by their choice as a result of imminent dismissal or because thesezzp'ers do not find suitable employment as an employed person. Especially in this group there seems to be false constructions where a person as an employee goes out the front door to come back as a zzp'er through the back door. My group believes it is important to keep this group ofzzp'ers involved in our society. They must not fall back on the State in the event of incapacity for work or on their retirement date. To sum up, there is a large difference in labour law and tax treatment of employees andzzp'ers. To the extent that there are inconsistencies between these differences, the extent to which differences should and can be resolved should be considered. The Ibo zzp of April 2015 I already referred to it as a good start to examine and test for improvements in the short term in the broad field of labour law. Improvements can be found in the protection of allzzp'ers and employees: their remuneration, the ability to insure themselves against the consequences of temporary or non-temporary incapacity for work, a decent pension and so on. The VVD Group had great sympathy for the De Graaf motion submitted during the General Political Reviews in this Chamber on 13 October 2015. My group's sympathy was about the higher objective that there is an urgent need for a fundamental rethink of the design of the labour market in relation to the strong rise ofzzp'ers. In October 2015, my group did not agree with the built-in, anti-zzp'er solution to the labour law problem, reducing the financial differences betweenzzp'ers and employees that are considered too substantial. My group felt that the De Graaf motion proposed a rapid political solution to a challenging problem in the field of labour law, the difference in net pay being only a partial one. In my group's view, the choice of the citizen for free enterprise as a self-employed person deserves a premium for the risks involved. In my group's view, reduced protection under labour law forzzp's may be offset by an additional remuneration. Thus, you stimulate work, quality work, in the Netherlands. For example, the net remuneration under an employment relationship can be improved by reducing the employer's burden on employees by reducing the wedge between the gross wage for the employer and the net wage for the employee. The use of the State Secretary of Finance with the introduction of the DBA Act concerns the difference between the level of charges on the gross wage of an employee for an employer and the charges on the contractually agreed price for the performance of a contract by azzp'er. Not only the revenue from the levies is the use of the bill, but also the question of where the levy can take place. With the criterion of an employee relationship on the basis of a contract of employment as a turntable, the DBA Act aims to impose liability for employee charges on the employer in so far as there is, in substance, a contract of employment relating to the contract with thezzp'er. In so far as the employment relationship relates to independent entrepreneurship of thezzp'er, that charge lies with thezzp'er, thus excluding the client. After all, that client is not an employer. I can easily compare the charging system with a yo-yo. If there is actual employeeship of the zzp'er, the yojo is tightly rolled up. The State's grip on the employer is optimal and the yield is maximum for the treasury. However, if the zzp'er is an independent entrepreneur, the yojo is rolled off. There's no State grip on the client. The revenue for the Treasury is limited to the charge on the contractually agreed remuneration for thezzp'er for the work performed. My group congratulates the Secretary of State for his comprehensive and clear letter of 18 January. following the letter with questions from this Chamber of 18 December 2015. The letter from the State Secretary of 18 January specifically describes the problem for the Tax Administration in the current application of the tax and premium laws as regards the difference between employees and employees. That problem lies in the issue of the VAR to a self-employed job seeker. If a VAR has been issued and a copy of that VAR has been issued to the employer, that client shall be exempt from post-tax both in respect of payroll taxes and social security contributions. It is reported that some 500,000 VARs have been issued by now. The VAR's licence for a client has been confirmed in the case law of, among other things, the Arnhem Court of Appeal of 9 October 2013. The site is Vakstudy Nieuws 2013/7.16. This case law means that the tax officer who, in an investigation of an employment relationship with a client, is confronted with the contractor's VAR and has to leave in the same way. The VAR indemnifies the client for the payroll tax and the employer's social security contributions. Further examination by the tax officer of the person performing the contract may lead to the finding that the employment relationship of thezzp'er to that client was an employment relationship. However, the system of taxation for that employee may still be wage income that falls within the scope of profit. For me, this is the current complex situation in the tax administration's enforcement under the VAR. The Secretary of State tries to solve his enforcement problem with the DBA Act with regard to the VAR by replacing the VAR's licence for clients with a system of exemplary agreements and model agreements between clients and contractors. The Secretary of State wants to move away from the system of a prior declaration by the Tax Administration on Entrepreneurship which is then used as a licence against the Tax Administration in enforcement. The aim of the DBA Act is that parties to the performance of a work may contract the conditions under which there is no employeeship. The Secretary of State has proposed fiscal test elements for the assessment by the Tax Administration of the actual content of those model and model agreements. The VVD Group could comment on and ask questions about the model agreements and model agreements. The political group gives the Secretary of State the benefit of the doubt and assumes that the contracts will end up in their final form, also in view of the extensive explanation given in the letter of 18 January. which was also about the alignment with the most affected market players. The essence of the DBA legislative proposal, however, is for my group enforcement, i.e. effective control in the assessment of whether there is actual employeeship of thezzp'er in spite of the paper agreement. The example agreements and model agreements are more a framework for my group. My group is concerned with the question of how the Tax Administration finds that post-tax attacks are necessary. In doing so, my group considers it of the utmost importance to thezzp'ers and their clients that the labour market for the performance of work byzzp'ers is not superfluous and to a significant extent disturbed by the introduction of the DBA Act. The Secretary of State describes the administrative pathways of voluntary deduction or payment of wage charges by job providers or the route with the imposition of post-tax charges by the Tax Administration or the UWV. These routes may indeed be followed by a tax court which may last for years, up to and including the Supreme Court. Clients, however, do not choose to employ azzp'er and at the same time pay wages. Clients also have no interest in long-term costly legal conflicts with the Tax Administration. With unbridled enforcement by the imposition of attacks, the market ofzzp'ers and clients is in any case not served. Taxation and tax enforcement is more than the imposition of post-tax attacks on the basis of administrative processes with the possibility of legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u79	I listened with interest to Mr Van de Ven, particularly the last part of his speech. My question to him is whether he draws the conclusion from this that, as I advocated in my first term, there should be a clear enforcement policy and that it should be well communicated with interest groups and through the website of the Tax Administration, in order to prevent, in my words, that 90% group, which is in good faith, from having to deal with all kinds of unrest, as he also describes. Is Mr Van de Ven also in favour of such an enforcement policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u80	I would like to thank Mr Van Rij for his comment. He makes a question in his own way, which I will now try to formulate in my contribution. I'm growing to the moment Supreme. I can clarify the core of the VVD Group's question when enforcing the DBA Act on the basis of the example given by the Secretary of State himself in Het Financieele Dagblad on Tuesday 19 January, a week ago. This example is the carpenter-zzp'er who forgets his tools and in principle violates the model agreement with his client by using tools from his client.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u81	I don't want to interrupt the climax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u82	You will, Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u83	Yes, the chairman does. Now I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u84	Yeah, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u85	Let me remind Mr Van de Ven, now that I have this opportunity and, above all, in anticipation of the subsequent climax, of what we talked about earlier. That is the question about thezzp'ers he said: we will and want to ensure that they do not lose connection with society. Perhaps, in his climax, he could take up the question as to how much the enforcement policy he wants to contribute to this in practice. I say this from the perspective of the publicity that has already emerged about the possible follow-up effects of these new laws and regulations. On the one hand, there seems to be considerable and substantial certainty for the client of the future, but on the other hand, the prospects for the contractor do not seem to be getting any happier at the bottom of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u86	I thank Mr Rinnooy Kan for his comment. I make a distinction between the enforcement problem I was talking about and the labour law that he spoke about in particular. I understand that there is often a bridge between the two speeches. I believe that we do not differ so much, but I am in the process of enforcing this deadline. The VVD is about enforcement, where the importance of thezzp'er in work, work, work should actually remain as it is now. We are therefore asking how this will be implemented in practice, but it starts with the question of enforcement. We have mentioned earlier in the speech that it is about labour law in these issues that are closely linked. If I recall the discussion he had on the civil and tax-law interpretation of the concept of "service relationship," I must say that it almost exceeded my comprehension capacity. In any case, we still have to have that discussion, but I would like to continue with the conclusion. Maybe the wallet's gone, but I'll briefly repeat it. It was about the carpenter who would go with a hammer to a client. However, he leaves the hammer at home and asks the client if he can borrow a hammer. The hammer stays at home, possibly even unintentionally. How can the Tax Administration maintain, since it does not have enough tax officials to control this kind of violation of a paper agreement in practice everyday? A check with the client's administrator will not help to indicate the actual performance of the assignment by thezzp'er. That is the question of the VVD Group and she is very curious about the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u87	Just one small point as far as I'm concerned. I understand very well Mr Van de Ven's point that enforcement under the current VAR legislation is inadequate, but does he think that only a completely new system is capable of improving enforcement or would there be improvements within the current system that could address that problem without putting everything at risk? I have asked this question before, but I would also like an answer from Mr Van de Ven. Is this major operation necessary to solve the problem he calls and I recognize?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u88	I think that is a very good question and I shall respond briefly and sloppyly to it. The existence of the safeguard in the form of the copy of the VAR for a client amounts to a kind of privilege for me and privileges in taxes are not allowed under Article 104 of the Constitution. For me, this means that a measure must be taken for the safeguard now in place for the client. It is therefore very easy to evade responsibility for their position, whether it be a client or a contractor. There is no discussion now, and something must be done about it. There's a long run ahead of that. That started with a Law Decree no payroll tax. Next, that bill was converted into a model of agreements to be concluded between market players based on society's wishes. My conclusion is that at the moment there is so little room to get rid of the task the Secretary of State has to make enforcement possible. We are very curious to see how you can maintain in practice, quite apart from the question of whether it can generate more or less tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u89	I get this, but it's just passing through my question. According to Mr Van de Ven, it is a question of how we can regulate this enforcement in the new system. However, my question was whether it would not have been possible to maintain the old system with fine-tuning. I don't have an answer to that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u90	I don't think it's up to me to answer that, so I can only give a personal opinion. I think the Secretary of State for Finance has been forced on the right grounds to come forward with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u91	And if I understand you correctly, therefore, on the one hand you recognise certain risks that might manifest, but consider the fundamental error so substantial that something must change in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u92	It's two things. The first is that I am not convinced that such an enormous market operation will now be based on the example agreements. The second is whether it is so substantial. I'm not on that line. I do not believe that it should lead to that. I believe, however, that this zzp'er can be made more clear with sufficient information than is the case at present, and with excellent guidance from the Ministry of Finance, therefore, more than via the website.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u93	Does Mr Van de Ven also agree with the need for an interim non-binding evaluation to assess whether this has actually been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u94	I've read quite a few reports from several departments on voluntary mid-term evaluations. We are talking about a period of six or seven months, which will be around December. I fear that a message will come back that this information will not be available in an orderly manner at the time. So I'm not convinced yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u95	Finally, Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u96	Finally, if you get that message, Mr Van de Ven, what would that mean for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u97	Then we'll have to wait for the message.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u98	With all due respect, if Mr Van de Ven gets the message that there is no evaluation yet, would he conclude that there is a need to wait a little longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u99	No, that's two things that have to be judged at that time. But you would like a mid-term evaluation. If it comes but the data are not yet available because the tax year 2016 has not even ended, I can understand that. I can imagine that the whole device is not set up to look at it. I think that society itself, the market players, thezzp'ers, will make their problems known if the problem exists. There will be social pressure and I hope, with Mr Rinnooy, that labour law will be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u100	If Mr Van de Ven believes and I agree with him that enforcement in the current VAR system is very difficult for the Tax Administration and that it should not be a privilege if it is not maintained by the safeguard, should it not also, through this Secretary of State, be called upon to the Cabinet to really take up the issue of labour, because it is up to this Chamber to speak about it? I do not want to say directly that it is a mission impossible, we have already had the bonus circus, to which a predecessor of Mr Wiebes has been circumcised, but when I hear him talk about the alternative, we will soon have an arrangement whose implementation will become so problematic that we will wonder whether we should not have looked at it much better. I don't want to pull the parallel all the way, but I'd like to mention it here sometime. If you don't address the fundamental question, you may never come to the left or right with a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u101	I thank Mr Van Rooijen for his comments. I do not want to repeat the passage immediately, but I have called for an urgent look at labour law. In reply to the second question on enforcement, I note the following. That is the essence of my question to the Secretary of State. I don't think I need to answer my own question here. I am really very curious about the answer, because the discussion often ends with the question of whether this is covered up properly. But taxation is always about whether you get your money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u102	I understand you want the Secretary of State's answer. But my question to you is whether, given the fact that the maintenance of the VAR is very difficult if not impossible, we share your concern about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u103	I guess I wasn't clear enough. The solution is now a fairly formal one. You have a person who wants to work as a self-employed person. He goes to a tax officer for a formal statement, what they call a Persilschein in Germany. With that you go to a client, who is happy, because he doesn't have to think further. I think that's weird. I find it strange that taxation is taking place in our society without a review of the real relationship. Taxation is always based on how the market works, how it works, how you get your money in, how you can levy taxes and how you can do it so that everyone is equal before the law. In my opinion, the client is currently in a privileged position. I understand that Mr Van Rooijen will respond to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u104	Mr. Chairman. With the flexibility of the labour market, the demand for the difference between employee and entrepreneur has become less easy to answer. The number ofzzp'ers has increased considerably over the last decade and thus also the questions of independence and false self-employment have become urgent, together with the balance between freedom and protection and the balance in responsibilities of the client and of the contractor. In this broad debate, the current legislative proposal has been localised, even though the government calls it a no-regret option that is necessary in any case for better enforcement and thus combating bogus self-employment. My group understands this reasoning, but at the same time believes that this should also be part of the wider debate and, for this reason, is rightly addressed in the broader ibo report. This means that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is looking not only at technical aspects of deregulation but also, above all, at effects for the various groups involved. 'Cause there's no such thing as thezzp'er. The highly trained consultant, who enjoys more freedom as azzp'er and has net more left, does not resemble the modern day laborer who, for example, carries all the risks for a hunger wage in home care. This bill has two coherent objectives. On the one hand, a better balance in responsibilities between the contractor and the client. On the other hand, reduce false self-employment and thus offer more protection to contractors in an involuntary zzp construction. The latter seems central, because in response to the ibo report, the government calls this bill a measure in the fight against false self-employment. My group supports these objectives and is, in fact, particularly concerned about the vulnerable position of self-employed or bogus self-employed people at the bottom of the labour market. It believes that the risk of exploitation and abuse should be greatly reduced. But as legitimate as that objective is, the question is whether the solution chosen is correct. The ibo report writes: "Shine self-employment cannot be eliminated with supervision and enforcement alone. By reducing institutional differences, the legal effects of the qualification are reduced and the setting up of false structures becomes less attractive." This raises questions about the objective of the legislative proposal: better enforcement, including with a view to reducing bogus self-employment. Isn't that something quite different than abolishing the VAR? Whether or not there is false self-employment in the formal and fiscal sense is far from telling us whether there is abuse of dependence or exploitation. Even within a correct tax structure, exploitation can occur and vice versa, a bogus self-employed person can theoretically be very well paid. Or rather: false self-employment overlaps with exploitation and abuse, but does not coincide with it. And countering false constructions, however important, does not solve the material problem by definition. Then: if the aim is to reduce false self-employment and exploitation, is this proposal effective? Because it happens all the time that we adopt laws here that could work if the whole country had the same good intentions as us, but they are counterproductive because the behavioral effects have not been taken into account. This proposal no longer assesses whether a contractor is an entrepreneur, but only whether the contract meets the criteria, for example that people can be replaced or not use the client's instruments. But isn't that exactly a major risk that production companies, for example, will massively switch to the zzp structure, which will make the most vulnerable groups of workers, who are replaceable, lose their legal status? In other words, will this bill not exactly increase false self-employment? What hard guarantees are there that this can't happen? I am never satisfied with the answer: we all mean well, so I guess not. What are the tough guarantees at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u105	The attitude of the employer or employer Client you just outlined could also be adopted under current legislation. Because the position of a person who is legally self-employed or employed does not change anything. If under the current law people can be degraded from employee to cheaper self-employed, so can we, but not more or less. Why do you criticise the new situation and not the existing situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u106	You are now asking whether we can reduce false self-employment. That is one of the arguments for this proposal. The argument that can be put forward against this is that you need to check whether this proposal actually contributes to this. In a number of ways, the risk could increase, precisely because the total situation of the person is no longer considered, whether as an entrepreneur or not. You have to show if you have enough clients and so on. This is now going to shift to the occasional relationship of the model agreement. There may be risks in this area, I ask the Secretary of State for his assessment of them, which unintentionally lead to a rise in false self-employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u107	Don't you just look at half the picture? Because even in the new regime, the position of the self-employed, given the number of clients, is still being reviewed, albeit with the tax return, or around that time. But that's actually no different than it is now. I therefore do not understand how this amendment to the law, which does not change the question of when you are an employee or self-employed person, can promote the creation of more false self-employed workers. I don't understand. At least I cannot follow the logic of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u108	We have a duty here to see if there are any weaknesses in the law. The question then is whether the model agreement that replaces the VAR sufficiently excludes this risk. That question has not yet been sufficiently answered for us. While in the VAR the emphasis was strongly on the overall picture of the self-employed, this emphasis is now shifting to the model agreement. Isn't that where there are new risks? Before we take a position on this law, I'd like to get an answer to that. I'm also referring to tough safeguards. My group wonders whether the proposal is proportionate if it already works. The number of bogus self-employed is difficult to determine, but is likely to be around 10%. Why is the bill important for that vast majority ofzzp's who are evidently truly independent? Perhaps the Secretary of State can reflect on the fact that, when we look at the numerous responses we have received from all kinds of interest groups, we see that their views are so different. Does he share my group's view that the truly self-employed professionals are predominantly opposed to the proposal and that representatives of vulnerable contractors or false self-employed people seem to embrace the proposal in a majority? Apart from the precise nature of the proposal, there seems to be more support from the latter group. If so, what does the Secretary of State learn from that difference? Is this perhaps too generic a measure which, if it already works, I have my questions to ask, but I will come to that later, at most, the position of contractors at the bottom strengthens but at the same time has undesirable consequences for many others? If it is working so differently, why didn't we opt for a more specific fight against exploitation and abuse than this one-size-fits-nobody approach? Which brings me to the effects. What does it mean for contractors that they are no longer there to obtain and show the right VAR, but that they should in principle conclude an agreement with each client? I am thinking in particular of those who work with many different clients. Especially from the creative sector, there are many critical signals about this, which seems to indicate a problem of acceptance. In substance, the criticism is about three things. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on that. First of all, there is the criticism of a huge administrative burden due to all the agreements. Next, there is the criticism of an increased risk of post-taxation because it is no longer a personal assessment of the position as an independent entrepreneur but an assessment of the specific work carried out. There is additional uncertainty because any deviation from the agreement may lead to a different assessment by the Tax Administration. No one knows what a "non-tax essential deviation' means and when it is a "small incidental deviation'. Finally, there is the criticism of the pressure generated by this in various sectors towards hiring intermediaries, which only increases costs, removes revenue and not rarely leads to strangle contracts. We have seen the examples come along in the post office....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Are they all stupid now or do they have a point somewhere? More at macro level calls for demand for the impact of the legislative proposal on labour market shifts as a whole. The ibo report shows that the relatively strong growth of the number ofzzp'ers is partly due to the extensive legal effects of the VAR and the guarantee of the client. Has the government made ex ante calculations of the likely consequences of abolishing the FAC on the development of the labour market? Does it expect that by shifting the balance sheet of responsibilities, clients will hire fewerzzp's and enter into more employment contracts? Or does she also recognise that there can be more false self-employed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u109	Mr Ganzevoort spoke about the ibo report. I think we're talking about the same report. On page VI it says: "This IBO does not make recommendations on enforcement policies and instruments such as the Employment Relations Declaration (VAR).' Perhaps Mr Ganzevoort has read the reason for his remarks elsewhere than in this ibo report, because that does not express any opinion at all on the enforcement of the VAR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u110	No, what I read in the ibo-report is that there is a search for the answer to the question of how in the Dutch situation in the past period there is a stronger growth of the number ofzzp'ers than in other contexts. On this point, it is said that this has to do with tax regulations and so on. That was the port of my equation. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what the government's expectations are for developments in the labour market if we change that system. If we are going to twist these screws, which are linked to the origin of the current situation, then we can expect that this will lead to shifts. The question is what the government has set out its expectations in this respect. I thank Mr Van de Ven for his question for clarification. Mr. Chairman. With regard to feasibility, the question arises of the flow of agreements for thezzp's themselves, but also of the development and legal certainty of the model agreements. This point has been raised in several ways. Especially when it comes tozzp'ers, the word "deregulation" sounds attractive, but the question is whether the cure is not worse than the disease. It may be enforceable, but my group is concerned that the assessment of any deviation from the agreement may cause an endless flow of disputes. She doesn't know if that's what we want right now. My group therefore understands the objective of the law, both in general and in particular the protection of the more vulnerable groups. However, it is not convinced that this bill will really change that. Maybe it's having counterproductive effects. Above all, she wonders whether the central goal could not be better achieved with a much more focused approach to exploitation and abuse and whether the shot shotgun that is now being used does not cause too many problems for otherzzp'ers. That is why the question is whether this is really a no-regret legislative proposal or whether we should leave it until we have a broader debate on developments in the labour market. My group has not yet reached a final verdict and is therefore looking forward to the Government's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u111	Model agreements are not mandatory. I am curious to see to what extent that affects the opinion of Mr Ganzevoort's group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u112	That's a very interesting question. The point is that they are not mandatory, but without model agreements there is no certainty whatsoever. The choice is between the following things. Or we ask for that certainty by means of a model agreement with all the risks of deviations and so on. Much has been written in the last period about whether it really gives certainty or not. Either we abandon model agreements, but then we don't know anything at all. That doesn't seem like an attractive option to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. It doesn't want to rush between the cabinet and thezzp'er. A satisfactory pension scheme is still not in sight and coalition partners cannot agree on disability insurance. The self-employed deduction, which has already been mentioned, is a difficult issue in all of this. My group fears that the current legislative proposal, which replaces the VAR, the employment relationship declaration, with general model agreements, will not make the matter much better. This is not about the underlying principle of combating bogus self-employment, but above all about implementation and framework conditions. The bill generates a lot of unrest amongzzp'ers and commissioning parties. It is unacceptable to be self-employed or to be self-employed or to be self-employed or self-employed. The fight against it is self-evident to my group. However, what is not self-evident is the proportionality of the legislative proposal, the remedy put forward, and above all the lack of a clear and comprehensive vision of the phenomenon ofzzp'er. Let me begin with the proportionality of the bill, which is a classic assessment criterion in this house. What is immediately striking in the study of the documents is that it is unclear how big the underlying problem is. The Council of State also pointed this out in its rather destructive opinion, and speakers before me also made this point. How many bogus self-employed are involved and has there been a significant increase in recent years? The bill is a lot torn up in thezzp world, but it fails to mark the order of false self-employment. The available figures do not impress. Would it not have been much better, I would ask the Secretary of State, to strengthen the head of enforcement on the current VAR regime, particularly in sectors where there is a well-founded suspicion of false self-employment? Why would we take everything on the shovel now? Can the new regulation not also be easily evaded? What is the added value in this respect? Can the Secretary of State also explain why the suction of thezzp entrepreneurial facilities will be reduced under the new regime? The Council of State also included this point in its negative assessment of the legislative proposal. In short, serious questions can be asked about the proportionality of this bill. There is no significant budgetary interest in this either; Mr Rinnooy Kan has already pointed it out. Then why is there so much time pressure? The bill already leads to unintended behavioural effects: companies choose position and refer theirzzp'ers to payroll companies to take it for granted. This particularly affects the lower-skilled self-employed, vulnerable groups ofzzp'ers. Or companies don't spend any more work onzzp'ers for a while. Surely that's not what we want. The bill has a messy history. In the first instance, the VAR was replaced by the BGL, the Decree was not a wage charge. When this met with major concerns in the field of stakeholders, the Secretary of State came up with the proposal of tax-tested model agreements, the current legislative proposal. However, Alras proved that introduction as of 1 January last. It was not possible, because there were simply too few model agreements available and information was not in order. The Secretary of State was forced to issue a transition plan which would delay entry into force for a year. That's not a miracle of tight direction. A lap along the fields shows that thezzp-world is in great uncertainty and is concerned about the implementation process. How does the Secretary of State look back on this legislative process and what lessons does he learn from this? Can he indicate to what extent the model agreements currently available are covering? If we consult the website of the Tax Administration, we can see that the number of contracts is not overflowing. We also get reports from, for example, the music sector, which indicate that new agreements must be submitted for each action. This leads to a lot of red tape. The Secretary of State also made this issue relative in the written preparation. Can the Secretary of State share with us whether this will be an unavoidable issue for thezzp'ers who work for different clients for a short time? There is also a great deal of uncertainty about the labour law side of the matter. Can the Secretary of State indicate in this light what the precise legal status of the model agreements is? What certainty is offered exactly? Much is and remains uncertain and employers are therefore afraid of heavy post-taxation. And this in turn leads them to outsource less work, which puts pressure on the turnover ofzzp'ers. How does the Secretary of State assess the impact of the bill on the labour market position and entrepreneurship ofzzp'ers? Will this be part of the evaluation process? If the legislative proposal is to be adopted, a thorough evaluation is needed. This evaluation is foreseen after three years. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the experience gained during the implementation phase between 1 April and the end of this year can lead to policy adjustments? The reason why the cabinet has so little progress in thezzp-file undoubtedly also has to do with clashing social images of the coalition partners, or more mildly expressed: with social images that are not simply interrelated. The Social Democratic vision emphasises the loss of fundamental security that the status ofzzp'er entails in terms of loss of income from unemployment, sickness, incapacity for work, the lack of a good pension scheme and the threat of competition with the classic employee because of their lower contribution burden. The liberal vision of Mr Van de Ven already highlighted this in his contribution "On the contrary, the positive aspects of zzp-schap: new entrepreneurship and new impetus, flexibility, independence and self-direction and the provision of your own income. One view sees the growingzzp army primarily as a labour market problem, the other as a labour market solution. These are two different societal visions, two different visions of the zzp phenomenon. In any case, thezzp'er can no longer be considered from the Dutch labour market. In ten years their number has increased explosively to some 800 000 full-time self-employed people and the end is not yet in sight. In addition, there are some hundreds of thousands of people who combine employment and self-employment. This is a'silent revolution' in the Dutch labour market. This development has a major impact on the balance between flexibility and security in the Netherlands and on collective insurance. This means that the government should consider what is now the broader perspective on the position of thezzp'er in the Dutch labour market, as well as on the employment relationships and contractual forms associated with it. Legislation must be based on a clear, substantive and comprehensive framework around the "zzp" society. We must ensure that the cabinet comes up with a series of legislative proposals, the bigger picture of which is not clear. This also applies to this bill which redefines the employment relationship between the client and the zzp'er as the contractor. And that's where the easy part is. My group has always taken the view that this legislative proposal on deregulation of the assessment of employment relations should be explicitly linked to a more integrated positioning. In addition, there was always a wait for the report of the Interdepartmental Policy Research Self-Employed Without Staff. In the walkways: Ibo zzp. We've been over this for a while. This report appeared earlier last year and the cabinet response followed in October. The report itself offers a broad reflection on the position of thezzp'er and a broad bay of numerical insights. Interestingly, the proposal to zoom in policy not so much on the axis of self-employment, but more on the axis of self-reliance, dependency for all workers. The institutional form of work thus becomes less relevant and the vulnerability of the position is more relevant. The extent to which this is the case then depends on the level of protection and solidarity that is politically desirable. The report describes three policy variants that tambourize on this dimension. The first variant focuses on the protection ofzzp'ers and employment at the bottom of the labour market. The second variant focuses on freedom of choice, flexibility and innovation. The third variant focuses on accessible protection and lower labour costs. This approach of content enables a much better and more interesting debate on how vulnerablezzp'ers can be effectively and effectively protected and what social safety net is available to them. That is the type of debate that my group needs. The reaction of the cabinet to this integrated vision of the Ibozzp was disappointing for my group. We mainly read many references to current policies, further research and forthcoming dialogues. Why hasn't the Cabinet chosen a more offensive vision? What does the Secretary of State think of the tax analysis and the tax policies proposed by the ibo report? Does that mean he can get out of his way? Or is my group's perception that he would rather leave these fiscal implications to another cabinet? Please respond to these points. My group raises the question of how the Secretary of State deals specifically with the De Graaf motion, which was co-signed by the Christian Union, calling for a vision of a more balanced relationship between employees and self-employed workers in the Dutch labour market. The few sentences that the Secretary of State wrote in his letter of 16 November this year. Wide, too thin. In my group's view, the Secretary of State could also have waited for the forthcoming ESC opinion on flexibility in the labour market and the role of thezzp'er. After all, there is no obvious urgency that requires rapid legislation. The world of intermediary service providers, the temporary agency industry and mediators, has also stirred up this bill. Their approach route is a slightly different one. They fear a mess of model agreements that undermine their services and note that the introduction of the legislative proposal presents major practical problems. They fear that the employment between intermediary andzzp'er is seen as fictitious and will therefore be covered by the wage tax regime. Can the Secretary of State explain again what he has to offer the broadcasting and mediation industry in this respect? Is a higher level of aggregation and a limited number of model agreements a serious possibility? What role does the classical intervention model play in this? After all, we are talking about an industry that offers more than 700,000 people a job. I'm rounding up. The Christian Union Group shares the concern about the evil phenomenon of false self-employment. However, the cabinet cannot explain the exact extent of the abuse. Our strong criticism is mainly about proportionality, the lack of urgency, the lack of underlying vision of the zzp phenomenon and the implementation problems surrounding the legislative proposal. Nevertheless, my group looks forward to the response of the Secretary of State to our questions and criticisms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. Our labour market is changing rapidly. The emergence of digital platforms such as Uber and Airbnb creates a new class of employees without a permanent employer. Career moves follow each other, combining jobs is common and everyone becomes everyone's competitor. Over the last 20 years, the number of companies in the Netherlands has more than doubled: from 600,000 in 1996 to 1.4 million in 2015. Three quarters of these companies arezzp'ers. That group ofzzp'ers is hugely diverse. Some voluntarily opt for thezzp-ship, others feel forced to start for themselves because there is no other way to get to work. Some can live well, others can go down the poverty line. Employers push workers out becausezzp'ers are cheaper, and the government stimulates the race to the bottom on the labour market by subsidisingzzp'ers. Specific attention is required by the group of bogus self-employed workers, who work under the flag of entrepreneurship, but who actually carry out his work under the authority of one or two principals. For this group, the VAR offers false security. After all, if the facts and circumstances as found in the actual execution of the work differ from those indicated in the application for the VAR, the VAR should be reviewed. For the clients, the VAR provides security through the warranty. This is special, because the client has not had any interference with this VAR. Moreover, the safeguard only ends at the time of revision. This does not allow enforcement at the client. The contraaing authority can only be called upon for wage charges from the moment the VAR has been revised after verification, if the employment relationship with the same contractor continues after revision of the VAR. However, in practice it seems attractive for some of the clients not to do so and to always work with a new group ofzzp'ers. The past cannot be traced back to the client. Legal experience shows that the client is always out of the question. I quote from last week's letter from the Secretary of State: 'The conclusion is therefore that enforcement which can only be aimed at contractors is a form of mopping with the crane open'. Mr Van Rooijen has also mentioned this. This looming error in the risk sharing between contractors and clients is a thorn in the eye of the PvdA. The VAR gives some certainty, but not in the right way. In the case of the employer, the security arises from safeguard measures, including in situations not intended by the legislator. For the self-employed, the risk of painful corrections remains, even in situations where he was aware of no harm. And not least: for the government, the VAR-wuo is an obstacle to orderly enforcement. In order to give an indication of the scale of the problem, between 10% and 20% of VAR wuos have been revised as a result of checks on self-employed workers. Research carried out by the SEOR, an independent research agency associated with Erasmus University Rotterdam, shows that of all persons who regard themselves as zzp'er 2% to 14% do not actually operate as self-employed persons. 2% are between 15,000 and 20,000 people who are wrongly excluded from employee insurance and who are wrongly not paid or paid wages. 14% are between 100,000 and 140,000 people. My group considers this situation unacceptable. The present bill aims to improve enforcement by the Tax Administration. This is done by no longer indemnifying clients, combined with the possibility of security through model agreements. In doing so, it corrects a looming error in the current legislation. At the same time, however, it raises new questions about the relationship between tax and civil law. Let me give you some examples. Take the position of intermediaries in the care. The home care organisation takes up the assignment, lays down substantive working arrangements, regulates payments, lays down final contractual responsibility for the care provided, can provide guidance and/or guidelines, the complaints regime of the care institution........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Although this agreement has been approved by the tax authorities, it seems to be a contract of employment under civil law. Or look at the model agreement no employer authority, as described by former PvdA senator Mies Westerveld in her blog for the VU and the UvA. Accepting responsibility for the proper execution of the agreed work, as described in this model agreement, is not a distinctive element for a contract. This may also be the case in the case of a fixed-term contract, for example in order to do a certain job. The same applies to the self-determination of the work, as defined in this model agreement. This also applies to many employees. The contract adds the obligation to coordinate with the client for the purposes of cooperation with any other person and to focus in the execution of the project on the client's working hours. In addition, the client can also give instructions and instructions, although not on the way there, but on the result of the assignment. Although this agreement was approved by the tax authorities, the reservations seem to indicate an employment contract in civil law, Professor Westerveld argues. Surely it is not possible for a person who works in accordance with a model tax contract to be regarded as self-employed, while the civil court considers that there is an employment contract? My group considers it unacceptable that model agreements should introduce new looming errors, now between tax law and civil law. We therefore ask the Secretary of State's firm commitment to allow a group of experts in civil law to assess the model agreements, incorporate their results into the evaluation framework used for the assessment of the model agreements and inform us about the results of this process six months after their introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u115	Somehow I get a picture of wells, calves and drowning. I can imagine that Mrs Sent may see a number of problems in implementation. It's good to look at that. At the same time, it raises a question. She's starting with enforcement. I totally agree with her that something should be done about that, but is this turnaround going to fix that? When I hear Mrs Sent, she sees a lot of problems that are on the table here, and which are perhaps even bigger than the problems we are solving. So we still have to fix things in the back? Or can we improve a number of things at the front in the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u116	I believe that a number of problems need to be solved at the back, because there are two fundamental objections at the front. One objection is that the VAR offers a false security to the contractor. The other objection is the safeguard for the client. I find these looming errors unacceptable. That is why I think it is important to give this bill the benefit of the doubt for the time being, provided it is managed properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u117	I get that. I don't know if we're all gonna make the same assessment, but I can see that. Mrs Sent says that the new proposal also contains fundamental looming errors. Indeed, the model agreement cannot have the same effect in civil law as tax law. If that's a new weave error, should we go that way? Should we correct this by taking some further steps at implementation level, or is it deeper than that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u118	I am confident that this kind of looming error can be corrected. The looming error of indemnifying the client can only be corrected by no longer indemnifying the client. Then you have to provide certainty in a certain way, and that is what you do with model agreements, provided that they are managed properly and tested against labour law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u119	Does Mrs Sent agree with me that the ultimate judgment on the latter, namely whether the tax judgment is a civil judgment, lies with the court? In that sense, it can never be predicted in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u120	We call on the Secretary of State to have a group of civil-law experts assess the model agreement. If that happens, it gives us more confidence that there is less tension between tax law and labour law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u121	I'd like to go back to the proportionality of the bill. That is a classic assessment criterion in this House, also for your group. You refer to the SEOR report, which I have also read very carefully. That report does keep a lot of beatings on the arm. You must have noticed that, too. They are also careful to blow up the kind of percentages you mentioned. The interesting thing about this report is that problems are concentrated in particular in certain sectors, namely care and transport. Is it not much better to make a very focused effort in these two sectors, to deliver tailor-made work and to remove the problem without taking the whole issue on board?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u122	I have a basic and practical answer to that. The answer in principle is that I continue to find it unfair that the client should be protected until the VAR has been revised. The practical answer is that the practice is that clients often start working with a new group of VAR wuos when a VAR is being revised, until it turns out that this VAR wuo is being worked wrongly. My point of principle is that I do not think it is right that there should be a safeguard for the client. That is an asymmetry and I welcome the fact that this asymmetry is being removed in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u123	Very well, my party is also of the principles, so we all share that. However, your approach route was enforcement. My counter argument, based on the sources you cite, is that this persistence is a problem in two sectors. Why, then, is no additional effort being made for these two sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u124	I would also like to refer to the judgment of the Court of Arnhem, also cited by Mr Van de Ven. It dates back to October 9, 2012 and was about couriers. This showed that the burden of proof for the inspector is impossible. It's impossible to deal with the clients because of their immunity. That is where the difference is with labour law. In fact, there are cases in which third parties have relied on the fact that there was a contract of employment, but in fact there was an employment relationship. I believe that Mr Rinnooy Kan has also referred to this, namely the case of the Thuiszorg Rotterdam Foundation versus PGGM. The pension fund has proven that there was indeed an employment relationship and has finally been able to enforce pension contributions on this basis. This is a matter of labour law. Such a case cannot be won in tax law, because of the protection of the client. I was talking about the relationship between civil law and tax law. We are also very interested in the Secretary of State's intentions to keep an eye on the pulse in this area. Another potential looming error between tax and civil law concerns the liability sharing in the event of damage as defined in Article 7 of a number of model agreements. This article distinguishes four situations. In all four cases the liability lies mainly with the contractor. Take, for example, situation 3. In this situation, the contractor suffers damage in connection with the performance of the contract. In this situation, the model contract imposes liability on the contractor, except where the damage is not attributable to the contractor and is the result of the performance of an exceptionally risky contract. However, the fifth paragraph states that liability sharing must respect the standards of reasonableness and fairness, as well as the limitations of liability which are common in the sector. But how reasonable and fair is a division of responsibility that already reduces the responsibility of the employer to the limit and increases that of the worker to the maximum? Once again, there is a danger of tension between tax and civil law. Indeed, such an allocation is in stark contrast to the development in labour law in order to strengthen employers' responsibility for healthy and safe working conditions, and thus their liability when they dodge. In doing so, the clause for situation 3 seems to be contrary to the risk sharing laid down by the judge in 2012 in the Davelaar/Allspan judgment. My group also considers it unacceptable that model agreements should introduce these looming errors. We therefore ask the Secretary of State's firm commitment to have the model agreements on this liability sharing reviewed by means of a consultation, in order to bring them into line with the responsibility of the employer for healthy and safe working conditions, to incorporate the results into the evaluation framework used and to inform us six months after their introduction. We would also like to hear from him how he intends to keep his finger on the pulse in this area. As a result of the present legislative proposal, supervisors appear to be in a special position. For the Commissioner, there is a fictitious employment relationship in the Law on Paying Tax 1964. The possibility of excluding this fictitious employment by means of a VAR will disappear with the introduction of the measures contained in the legislative proposal. This means that there is a fictitious employment at all times and that a salary tax on a Commissioner's salary must be withheld and paid. This creates equal treatment for the employers of supervisory directors who carry out their activities as entrepreneurs and the employers of other supervisory directors. In doing so, nothing changes for the Commissioners who are not currently working with a VAR. There is thus a level playing field with regard to the levying of wages, but not with regard to VAT. After all, the Commissioners who are now entrepreneurs for income tax do have to pay VAT, but other Commissioners do not have to. The main point here is that the disappearance of the VAR means that the fictitious relationship for Commissioners is again manifesting itself prominently, and this raises the question of what the background is. In many cases, such a Commissioner will subsequently qualify as an entrepreneur and then the withheld payroll tax is too high. In doing so, my group attaches great importance to the fact that a Commissioner must be able to do his or her work independently of the institution or the company. We therefore consider that a fictitious service is undesirable from the point of view of governance. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? If so, what consequences does he have? The present legislative proposal aims to improve enforcement by the Tax Administration, but the underlying tax incentives that lead to the sharp increase in bogus self-employment are not addressed. I am referring here to the distortion which has arisen in recent years in the taxation of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed. From the employers' point of view, the large difference in tax and contribution burden leads to an increasing number of companies dismissing employees and then hiring self-employed workers at bottom rates. The result is a negative spiral in which a shrinking number of employed persons has to pay an increasing share of taxes, making them even more expensive compared to self-employed persons. Workers thus finance the erosion of their own position and also the erosion of their support under social insurance. In addition to the fact thatzzp'ers are not covered by the Work and Income Act, the possibilities forzzp'ers to build pensions remain limited and one in sixzzp'ers lives below the poverty line. My group therefore very much hopes that the amendment of the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act in relation to the application of that law to specified contract agreements (33623) can count on a majority in this Chamber. We are happy to discuss this with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Our question to the Secretary of State for Finance is whether he is concerned with the members of the PvdA Group about the distortion that has arisen in the taxation of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed. And what are the consequences of that? Does he agree with my group that affordable disability insurance and pension schemes should be available to all workers? If so, what plans can we expect from the government in this area? Today, we expect to have confidence that the government will address this wide-ranging issue in a speedy manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u125	Does Mrs Sent herself have any confidence that under this new regime the situation she is referring to will improve? And if so, what is this trust based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u126	I'm asking the Secretary of State to give me that confidence. For the time being, I am happy to give him the benefit of the doubt, but I am very happy to wait for his answer. I am concerned about the text in his letter, which states that it is a broad problem and that there should be a social debate about it. I would like to see a little more urgency on this issue. I hope the Secretary of State can reassure me that the cabinet is taking a swift approach to this. I'm rounding up. The transition plan presented to our Chamber on 16 November 2015 offers more confidence than the original plan to bring this bill into effect on 1 January 2016. The transition plan will allow clients and contractors until 1 January 2017 to adapt their working methods to an example or model agreement if necessary. In its contribution, my group called on the Secretary of State to use the transition period to avoid as much as possible tensions between tax and civil law in relation to the model agreements. We'd like to know if he's willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. It has come to pass: today our Chamber discusses the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Labour Relations. Whatever else we think of this law, deregulation does not seem to be the case anymore. That's okay, deregulation is not an end in itself. We will test the legislative proposal against its objective: to combat bogus self-employment, insofar as the Tax Administration can do something about it. Combating bogus self-employment is of great importance to the SP: if there is not a working relationship between an independent and a client, but actually a working relationship between an employee and an employer, then the latter must also pay the collective wage and social contributions. The self-employed must not become a worker without rights. This problem mainly affects the growing group of low-paid self-employed workers. Almost nowhere, the number of self-employed is growing as fast as in the Netherlands: the last ten years measured by about half. According to the Interdepartmental Policy Survey, self-employed people without staff, which came out last year, this is mainly due to the tax facilities, especially the high self-employment deduction. As a result, it is not only advantageous for employers to avoid social security contributions, but also, from a superficial point of view, for employees to convert a position as an employee into that of a self-employed person: they have a net surplus of their gross income. This development is not new. In the 1980s, I had to deal with this process as a trade unionist in the taxi sector. And then, after some adjustment of the chosen phony construction, the IRS agreed. By the way, for many low-skilled self-employed people, the higher net income is short-lived. Because they do not have special knowledge or skills, their bargaining position vis-à-vis employers is weak, especially in times of high unemployment. These employers still achieve the tax advantage through tariff reductions. To reverse this development it is necessary to change something about the self-employed deduction. Many others have already argued this today. This is also what the writers of the Ibo self-employed say. Unfortunately, the cabinet is not doing anything with this recommendation. Of course, we can always ask the cabinet to do so, and we will also agree with that question, but we know that this is nothing more than a political gesture. In fact, we ask the VVD/PvdA coalition to draw a square circle. We will not, by definition, agree on this. So, despite all our questions, there will be no proposal from the cabinet on that point. Unfortunately. According to a recent study, the number of bogus self-employed varies from 2% to 14% of the number of self-employed in different sectors. The ibo speaks from 2% to 17%. I don't know where the difference comes from either. The OECD estimates in its Employment Outlook 2014 that 15% of the self-employed in our country is actually an employee. That's a lot above average. We are talking about more than 100,000 bogus self-employed people! This does not mean, however, that these are bogus self-employed under our laws, because in our laws and case law the distinction between employees and self-employed workers is diffuse. I'm not the only one who notices that. Too often, a person who actually works as an employee is still seen as self-employed, especially in court rulings. Unfortunately, the bill we are discussing today does not change that. The DBA Act aims only to improve the enforcement of the existing legal distinction between employee and self-employed. The cabinet states in its explanatory statement that under the existing law, in which work is carried out with a VAR, a declaration of employment relationship, the employer of a bogus self-employed person is exempt from post-tax and the self-employed person or self-employed person. employee must take the fall for it. Compliance with the law is therefore not effective. That is why the VAR is being abolished. However, contracts can now be assessed in advance by the Tax Administration and a large number of model contracts are published on the website of the service. That does not go far enough: we want to prevent employers from inventing new constructions approved by the Tax Administration in the light of the legal review framework, while these constructions then remain secret. We want full transparency, to create a level playing field for all concerned and to be able to see what can be done under the existing law as legislator. This may be a reason to amend the law and to revise the distinction between self-employed and self-employed persons as necessary. Therefore, it is crucial for the SP Group that all pre-approved contracts are made public, if necessary anonymised. The Secretary of State considers that contrary to the law, the tax law does. But with all his creativity, he can still find a form in which our wish is met. I dare him to do that. To a question from our group, the Secretary of State replied in the note on the basis of the report that an independent person may also submit to the Tax Administration for assessment an agreement submitted to him or her or an agreement already in force. But this option is not offered on the website of the Tax Administration. It's even discouraged from doing that. Can the Secretary of State repeat this commitment here? Does he also want to ensure that outside this Chamber more publicity is given to that possibility, starting on the website of the Tax Administration? The Tax Administration will review contracts and contracts in line with existing legislation and case law. In doing so, it is important that the review framework used by the Tax Administration becomes public. Important points are now on the website, but we would like the entire review framework to be published. Can the Secretary of State take care of this? The shift by employers from low paid wage labour to even lower paid labour of self-employed workers cannot only be countered by better compliance with tax laws. It's more than bogus self-employment according to those laws. It is therefore a good thing to include in collective agreements rules to reverse this undesirable trend. If a collective agreement is declared universally binding, it has the force of law. But to our question whether the Tax Administration also reviews contracts submitted to it in relation to collective agreements, the Secretary of State replies evasively. Apparently, he doesn't want to hit the VVD and D66. Nor can it be that he believes that the Tax Administration can only review tax rules, because the service does not review the tax rules but the labour law rules in the contracts submitted to it. Why is it that the collective agreement provisions are not taken into account, if necessary in consultation with the SZW inspection? Does the Secretary of State wish to respond again, not only to my reference to D66 and the VVD, but also to the issue itself? The Law on Deregulation Assessment of Employment Relations may, in good execution, increase the liability of employers using bogus self-employed persons, with the aim of reducing the number of bogus self-employed persons and helping those involved in a normal employment as an employee. But it is certainly not self-evident that this goal is being achieved. Some people fear that there will be new phony structures, for example through a longer chain of contracts through intermediaries, which ultimately makes the self-employed worse off. It is therefore a good thing that the law is reviewed within three years after it has been introduced. To see if the false self-employment decreases, it is useful to work with a zero measurement. Is there or will there be such a measurement? In addition, after the transitional period, we think it appropriate to have an external audit of the way in which the Tax Administration has assessed the contracts submitted to it, both the approved and the rejected. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? The preliminary conclusion of the SP Group is that the DBA Act aims at a better approach to bogus self-employment. That is what we are in favour of, but whether this also has the desired effect will depend heavily on the way in which the tax authorities implement it. I have asked a number of questions about this on behalf of my group. It depends on the answer of the Secretary of State to those questions as to what my group's final opinion on the bill will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u128	I don't know the SP as a very gullible party. She will not think in advance: it will work well; the government will do well. I know the SP as a party that is always extremely critical, as far as I am concerned, and rightly so, about the drafting of legislation and the proposals that lie here. I hear Mr Köhler say: we would like to see an evaluation in a few years' time; then we can see if the number of false self-employed is increasing. However, I do not hear him critically reflect on the suggestions contained in this proposal which can indeed promote false self-employment, as opposed to the good intentions that lie beneath it. I would like to invite Mr Köhler to allow his natural critical attitude and his natural distrust to run a little loose in this debate. That might help to tighten things up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u129	You can always see if a glass is half empty or half full, but I prefer to see if it is half full. If this legislation can lead to improvement on this point, then we are in favour of it. What we know for sure, at least, is that almost no one disputes it anymore. For clients or clients employers are a safeguard to continue with this type of practice. The Secretary of State also tells us, and he is the one who is talking about it, that it is not possible under the existing regime to do anything about it. The part of false self-employment that can be removed by better enforcing existing legislation could be addressed by this means. By the way, I have also argued that it is only a part of it. Why would you do that along this road? By this route, it becomes better possible to look for it with the client, and there you must be. It makes no sense to check here and there under 500 000 self-employed persons if there is a person who is working wrongly. That doesn't make any sense. You can't control the current with that. But under the new legislation, you can end up with the client. Then you can tackle the clients who abuse the current legislation on a large scale. For us, the great unrest that exists today, even among clients, is all the more proof that clients who abuse it feel caught. They say, "God, what are we gonna do now?" Soon they will not be able to get out of their way with the false constructions they always had, namely. For us, that's proof that that law has influence. It is true that there will be a search for new false constructions, but it is impossible to say: we do not want a law because those who are in bad faith will try to evade that law. Then we will no longer have to adopt any law in tax law, because every new tax law will re-examine those who are in bad faith for new ways of getting out of the tax rules. So it is not an argument in advance for us to say: don't do it. But we are not at all sure that it will now lead to a major improvement. That is why we are very much in favour of an evaluation. But we are also very much in favour of public access, as all things can come to light that will demonstrate the need to tackle the matter more fundamentally and to frame the legal distinction between self-employed and self-employed much better than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u130	What struck me rather ironic is that in recent days we have received a letter from an employer from an industry where conditions prevail which Mr Köhler and his party oppose. I'm interested in the prophecy this employer has made. While there is now a decent situation and a regular employment relationship, the new circumstances, according to this employer, will make it more attractive, easier and even inevitable to opt for the arrangement that Mr Köhler regrets. The employer who speaks in the letter does not fall into the category which Mr Köhler has just described of course, but falls into exactly the category he should be cherishing. This employer warns us that life is made more difficult than easier for him. What does that mean for Mr Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u131	Not only did I receive this letter, but I also had a conversation with another employer in the parcel delivery sector. That's what I call it. Both say that this law does not help them, because their underlying problem is, of course, not just the sham structure, but the possibility at all of moving work fairly easily from workers to self-employed workers, who, in their eyes and in my opinion, should not be called that, but unfortunately, in existing legislation. See also the case law on those who have claimed employee status in a case against PostNL, in which the judge says in many cases: you may indeed be considered self-employed. These are cases I say: how is it possible? To solve that problem, the legal distinction has to change. That the situation is getting worse by this law can't get in with me. Because what are these employers going to do? That's what the letter says. The model contracts, which still make much possible, will then be legalised. But that is already the case in the current situation. If a contract is concluded in accordance with these model contracts in the current situation, it is also legalised. In this respect, the law does not deteriorate on this point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u132	In any case, it seems that it would be easier rather than more difficult in the view of these and other employers to follow exactly the route that Mr Köhler regrets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u133	I am surprised that other clients are opposed to the new legal procedure that it all becomes so much more complicated. According to this employer, it would become easier. The logic commands me to say that, unfortunately, nothing improves on this point, but nothing gets worse either, which is the more general characterization of this law. As far as the whole problem of false self-employment is concerned, this law only zooms in on a very small dot and perhaps seeks to deal with it in a different way than the current failure to enforce existing legislation. That in itself has our support, if it is something and does not in advance lead to a new secret circuit of agreements. Then we say, "Build the failure again," so forget it. But I trust the Secretary of State's creativity to come up with a satisfactory answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u134	Mr. Chairman. After a somewhat longer preparation than usual we are talking today about the bill Law deregulation review labour relations. Longer than usual, because there has been quite a lot to do about this law. This concerns in particular the relationship betweenzzp'ers and their clients. We can certainly see thatzzp'ers are gradually playing a very important, unimaginable role in our society. Nevertheless, the question arises as to whether the flexibility of the labour market, which has been given an important stimulus with the advent of thezzp'er, is in all cases going well. At least there is a fear that the unequal treatment between wage-earners and wage-earners in the tax sphere and the social security sphere will have negative effects. In the meantime we have 1 millionzzp'ers, of whom the majority are under fashion. Reason enough to deal with this group of people carefully. The old declaration of employment relationship, the so-called VAR, of which we had four types, clarifies whether they should include wage charges and pay on the contractor's income. It is now being replaced by hundreds of exemplary agreements. That doesn't sound like deregulation, and it has scared a lot of people. The practice is, of course, that there is freedom of contract, which in principle allows for an unlimited number of agreements, whereby parties simply limit themselves to example agreements. An important advantage is that the control by the Tax Administration no longer takes place unilaterally with the contractor. The client is also subject to control in the new system. That seems more reasonable to my group. However, the new system also raises my first question. In the letter from the State Secretary of 18 January, I read that the Tax Administration has already assessed 400 exemplary agreements, while 350 examples are still under discussion. My question to the Secretary of State is: are we talking about efficiency and deregulation? In the new system, the contractor and the client have a joint responsibility. After all, they draw up a contract together or conclude some standard contract, whereas that responsibility was almost exclusively with the contractor at first. After all, the contractor only had to apply for the VAR and showed it to the client if he so wished. Because now the client can also become an effective subject of enforcement by the Tax Administration, which seems quite logical in itself, there is a risk that clients will seek means to exclude any risks of hiring zzp'ers. The emergence of an intermediate layer ofzzp mediation has been mentioned in the press. A situation where the margins for intermediaries are bizarrely high. This would occur especially in the care sector. The final result could be a lower rate for the self-employed. That seems to my group to be an undesirable situation. I would therefore appreciate it if the Secretary of State would, in particular, go into detail on this point. He may be able to take away our concerns at this point. We are particularly concerned here with the following questions. Does the Secretary of State also see the development of intermediaries betweenzzp'er and final client? If so, does he consider this development undesirable? Is he prepared to fight vigorously unwanted developments like this, if they occur? I would like to leave it at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u135	Mr. Chairman. Working as a self-employed person without a staff is popular. It is clear that it does not always come from free choice. But it is also clear that it is very often also a free choice. It is also clear that often a VAR is used to cover employment relationships that should actually be classified as employment or fictitious employment. The Bovib, as an organisation of intermediaries, even says that clients expect that not 10% but at least 30% of the current assignments forzzp'ers do not comply with the intended laws and regulations. The Bovib uses this, of course, to indicate that disasters can be expected from the DBA Act, but the ruling can of course also be used to argue that the Secretary of State is quite right that the VAR really can't go on and that something better is needed. So the question is not so much whether the current system is good, because that is not it in all respects, but whether the present legislative proposal makes it much better. Although in practice there must be a grey area somewhere, the Tax Administration clearly indicates in its information on its website which elements in an agreed employment relationship contribute to a qualification as an employment relationship, or contribute to a qualification as a contract of employment. It is obvious that the risk-sharing becomes fairer if the client is no longer protected from all the consequences of ex post enforcement, of still having to pay payroll taxes. That's more honest. It is not immediately clear that maintaining that difference will be easier if a VAR is no longer used in a few general rulings. If I use the example agreement, then in the end we have to check exactly the same thing as we are doing at the VAR. I agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan. I think he said the same thing. So what is the difference in enforcement? Can the Secretary of State explain that? And if the enforcement is indeed much greater when working with an agreement system, then the question remains what consequences it will have. There's a lot of people who don't feel comfortable about that. Firstly, as far as I am concerned, one of the central questions. It is not necessary to use an approved agreement, but it is actually necessary to use such an agreement in order to secure exemption from wage charges. Does it not lead to an inexcusable administrative burden for those who often have to carry out short-term, different work under different circumstances? The film industry fears that because it has not yet proved possible to obtain prior approval for a generic model agreement. Then what's going on in there? Are so many contracts now needed for the contractors themselves to determine exactly what parties expect from each other, or are they needed so that the contractor does not have to be controlled each time and thus an automatic relationship of authority arises? Is it possible for the film industry to work only with one simple model agreement and then to further regulate the concrete content of the work with each other? Or does that lead to employment? There is great concern that there will be considerably fewer contracts tozzp's out of fear or from the observation that the intended employment relationship actually qualifies as an employment relationship. On the one hand, that is good, because enforcement starts to work immediately, but on the other hand, it means that, for example, all those who are often forced by circumstances, the market, to act as zzp'er while in fact they are simply employed, lose their jobs. And the question is whether they will be able to return to employment or simply no more work for them. The extent of these effects is, I think, not so easy to estimate, but vital for many people. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at this. I'll give you a concrete answer. There are quite a fewzzp'ers who are forced by the market to offer their labour to a boss with the great competitive advantage over a regular employee that they are willing to be available whenever necessary. That is not easy for an employee to offer, because it is bound by all kinds of rules. Where a client can use it, in practice it is often very difficult for the contractor to keep track of several clients. After all, it must be available and there is enough work for that one client. In practice, in practice, there is a factual relationship of authority in the sense that exactly what the boss wants and when the boss wants must be done. Returning to the aforementioned point: if not everything is exactly laid down in individual agreements, so that the contractor can perform exactly what has been agreed, is that relationship of authority, that direct control, almost inevitable? If, in such a case, that factual authority ratio in the assessment by the Tax Administration is to prevail over the formal independence of thezzp/contractor, then a lot of this work for self-employed workers is likely to have to lapse, but it is unlikely that traditional jobs will return immediately. Or is this a grey intermediate area where, given other elements in the ratio, the Tax Administration can also use a simple example agreement as a basis for both sides? How do the Secretary of State and the Tax Administration view such situations? Under the new law, the client is no longer exempt from ex post payment charges, but the contractor's claim is not excluded. And since the contractor will often still be the weakest party, the contract contract may be very easy to lay down the risks, including this risk, with the contractor. In that case, the actual question of fault over the deviation from the legal standards may not even have to play a role anymore. Is that so? That's the way I'm asking the Secretary of State. We now have many workers from other EU countries who act as self-employed persons and who are therefore able to compete with workers, both Dutch and other EU citizens. Does the Secretary of State consider that here too the bill could lead to better enforcement of the standard of self-employment, or is there enough enforcement in this sector, or is it still too difficult to maintain it? As far as agreements agreed by the Tax Administration are concerned, in the long term that will become a significant number if this law is adopted, the question is whether all these agreements can be public. Where we insist on transparency, including in taxation, there is much to be said for that. Can the Secretary of State say no to that? The case of the film industry shows that it is not always easy to reach generic sector agreements. In other words, it is probably often necessary to describe work quite precisely in order to avoid the creation of a relationship of authority. Is this a common phenomenon, many sectors are against it in consultation with the Tax Administration? If that were the case, would it be possible to conclude that in such sectors, under current legislation, flex work is better than self-employed, even if it would rather be self-employed, because it has advantages for him? Or are there indeed a lot of grey cases where the proportions are not very clear as one or the other to qualify? If that were the case, then the root cause is that it is not yet clear what we want withzzp'ers and so what azzp'er really is. That problem has been raised many times this afternoon. No matter how popular it is to become azzp'er, in my opinion it is still more attractive for most people and better for their peace of mind to have an old-fashioned permanent job. In practice, the earning model of manyzzp'ers often results too little to really live on. This discussion is about a legislative proposal which is certainly desirable in its objectives, but which might also have a very direct, negative impact on many people by suddenly giving the concept of "zzp'er a much more limited meaning than has hitherto been the case in practice. A very careful consideration in this house is part of that. We can expect clear answers from this Secretary of State to our questions and doubts, and I am happy to count on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u136	I note that none of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. In view of the visit to the Council of State, I am suspending the sitting until 7.30 p.m. A large number of Members have already left for the State Council because this debate has taken a little longer than was foreseen. Anyone who has signed up for the visit, I would ask that the Council of State should now move in the direction of the Council of State. Then we can join the group. The visit lasts until 6.30 p.m. From 6:00 p.m. there can be dinner in the Noenzaal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u137	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u138	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the various senators for their competent input and their discussion among themselves. Sometimes I'm in a position to listen to their discussion. I'm done with that now. I notice that I have one thing in common with several people here. My thoughts also occasionally go out to work legislation as it might be. I, too, cannot suppress that tendency. However, my profession is the enforcement of legislation as it is, and that is what this debate is about as far as I am concerned. This bill may be more boring than hoped, but it may also be more useful than feared. Actually, that's where I wanted to go. I'll tell you how I want to build up my answer. In the end, it will save time. I have previously tried to make arrangements with the chairman if I try to do it in a certain order. Then we all get it. I want to talk first about why. I will start with the frequently asked question as to why we should not be able to deal with the current system and how big the enforcement hole really is. I would then like to address all kinds of questions that have been asked about the system as it should be. In doing so, I will deal with the administrative burden and also the way enforcement is carried out, the enforcement strategies behind them and which review frameworks are used. Any shudder on the part of clients and contractors to work with this system has been discussed. The effect on groups has been asked. It also asked why this new system could not wait for a possible broader review. I would like to go into this in conjunction with the second block. A lot of questions have also been asked about the model agreement, in many ways. In addition, the widely mentioned difference between civil and fiscal matters is addressed. Questions have been asked about the distribution of liability. The replacement clause has been discussed, the intermediaries and the publicity. There are also some other questions. I would like to make a number of commitments, at least as a result of the Court's contribution, because I fully agree with a number of points. I think that we are moving forward with commitments. The first question, of course, is why it is not possible to maintain it now. I'd like to treat it in two steps. The tax authorities go through two steps. The first is the issuing of the decision, the VAR, and the second is the effective enforcement. Both perform things that are obstructive. That's why I walk through it in that order. Of course, it starts with issuing the VAR, half a million VARs a year. The only thing that VAR actually does is to safeguard the client: to safeguard the payment of premiums and to safeguard the payment of wages. That happens before the year yet to come. A safeguard is a very far-reaching commitment. You're actually saying that someone doesn't have to pay anything. Therefore, from the exporter of the tax legislation, there is a far-reaching assurance that the client is actually not liable under the law. However, there is no such assurance at all, because the VAR does not make that certainty at all. The VAR shall be issued on the basis of circumstances and facts that do not yet exist. You don't have those jobs yet as the applicant for the VAR. In fact, a lot of the applicants for a VAR don't even know their future client at all. That already makes it very difficult to fill in a VAR that must then be used to protect someone. What also plays a role is that the one who is freed is the client who is in principle only about one employment relationship, while the VAR is issued on all employment relationships, namely about the person. If you'd like to take care of it nicely, if you want to guarantee it, you'd actually want to have some sort of VAR per assignment. However, the questions of the VAR are not appropriate at all. They're too global for that. I hear a lot of suggestions. It is said: Dear Eric Wiebes, if they are too global then make them more precise. Yes, but the problem is of course not that the Tax Administration is unable to come up with the exact questions. The problem is that the applicant for the VAR is still completely unable to answer such questions. After all, the employment relationships we are talking about do not yet exist at all. Maybe they'll never come or they'll be completely different than they thought. To give certainty in advance about a situation where you do not even know the conditions and about which nothing is yet known, is a very curious whole. So that VAR is mainly creating false security. Studies show that the holder of the VAR, the applicant, often derives from his VAR the idea that it satisfies the tax conditions. He uses it as some kind of work permit. However, that guarantee cannot be given to the holder of the VAR at all. There is only one security that the holder of the VAR can derive from it. The only security he has is that he is never, ever again, eligible for social security. Because that's what he signed up for. He only knows for sure that if things go wrong, he will not get the terms that are usually attached to the fixed contract. He doesn't get anything else, though. So the holder of the VAR has nothing to do with it, except an illusion. This makes it a very special animal in the legislation. After all, we give certainty about something that does not yet exist. There is no precedent for this in the whole of tax legislation. I wonder what the First Chamber would say as a guardian of legislative quality if I came up with the idea of protecting companies from, for example, profit tax in advance from the Tax Administration and if I said: we do not know how much profit you are going to make, when and on which, but you get to reassure you in advance that you do not have to pay anything. That is a very special way of giving advance security, that is simply to dismiss it in advance without knowing whether there is a right to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u139	This is an important part of our discussion. I'd like to feed her complete. What is actually lacking from the, as usual, eloquence of the Secretary of State's story is a reflection on how it could have come to this. He now presents it as a highlight of irrationality, but in the creation of the VAR and its later expansion, its strengthening effect, there is also a story. Wasn't the reason why it couldn't come to that exactly that in practice it was so incredibly difficult for benevolent clients and contractors to strike that fine distinction between a contract of employment and a contract of employment sufficiently? In the period prior to the introduction of the VAR, should the interested parties not have found on a large scale that the Tax Administration subsequently found that they had made a rather fundamental mistake, however willingly so? Has this arrangement not been made to do something about it, not because it would be inherently so wonderful, but because at some point there did not seem to be an alternative to the creation of the desired employment opportunities for self-employed people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u140	The VAR was probably as controversial as it is today when it was introduced. It has finally arrived, in my view, precisely because of the practice outlined by Mr Rinnooy Kan in his own speech. In his own speech, he referred to earlier times, when many malicious parties in the labour market were recruiting large-scale with things that could not, in the end, be accepted by the law and that were indeed imposed on a large scale? That proves two things. First of all, it proves that you make mistakes when you don't have any security in advance and you don't know how it works, and second of all, you seem to have excellent enforcement without VAR. The problem, of course, was that the parties took the wrong approach. I'll tell you later what the Council of State thinks about that. If you have a lack of security in advance and you don't tell anyone how the law works, you can't reasonably expect people to follow it. It's just that tax-free is a horse's tool. If there's a lack of clarity, you need to clarify. In this respect, I agree entirely with the clients and contractors and also with Mr Rinnooy Kan that this is about giving a powerful way of guarantee in advance, without working with a safeguard in advance. I shall say all kinds of things about this safeguard later and indicate how it will work, but it is clear to me that this will not work without certainty. That is also the only thing that makes me able to work well with both clients and contractors. We can bring a lot of elements into the economy that are ultimately a zero-sum game, but uncertainty is a loss for everyone. It is a question of giving certainty in a credible way. I'll be right back to the way that that could work and why I think this could work. This was only the phase of the VAR, half a million decisions a year with a particularly restrictive effect. How does that work in enforcement? The client is virtually unbiased. I'll tell you more about it later. It is not in the law, but the basis of every law is that bad faith can always be a debinding condition. In the event of bad faith, the warranty can theoretically be set aside. The IRS hasn't been able to get the evidence around once in the ten years that the VAR exists. In fact, the Tax Administration has opportunities on all fronts to sue endlessly, and those things have never even come through the strict pre-selection. So, even in the pre-selection, those cases were already considered by the experts there, the Tax Administration has already assessed a lot of "unsuccessful" cases in the legal field. This undoubtedly has to do with a certain mismatch in the assessment, namely that the VAR has been made a vehicle to assess the whole of a person's activities, while bad faith and behaviour in that particular employment relationship has to do with only one employment relationship. That has never been achieved so far by the internal jury, for example those clients who were issuing pre-printed VARs "if you now turn in this VAR; I must have filled it in for you" or in respect of clients who had previously noticed that VARs had been withdrawn from them or had been bullied with the Tax Office. That's never happened before. Then, of course, the much-heard suggestion that I understand is that we have slipped into the system in the unconditionality of the safeguard. Often the suggestion has been made to make the safeguard a little more conditional, so that the safeguard only applies if the employment relationship actually proposes to be dealt with outside of employment. Bon, that's a wonderful proposal, but that's exactly what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u141	Can the Secretary of State also indicate in quantitative terms over that ten-year period how often the Tax Administration has had case positions on the board? He made it clear that they weren't passing the internal test whether it was a viable case or not if it was brought to justice. But how many cases are we talking about and what was the policy in terms of risk-oriented enforcement during that period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u142	For example, let's take the year when we checked the 1.688 VARs atzzp level. There has not been a single post-tax. Not one case has been found ripe to proceed on the basis of bad faith. Actually, only VARs have been withdrawn. On what is the procedure and what I think of it, I shall come back in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u143	I'd still like to get it sharp. That is the one investigation you are referring to and which has also been mentioned in the written answers. It does not yet answer my question as to what policy has been risk-oriented in the past ten years. Has it remained with that one population of 1,688 or has there been a consistent enforcement policy towards clients who might be too bad faith in, for example, certain vulnerable sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u144	Let me say something about the enforcement strategy as I see it for the future. The Tax Office also knows its pappenheimers in this area. He doesn't give the names to me, of course, because I'm not allowed to know. That's what the tax bill says. But the Tax Administration, of course, knows in all branches who the good but also who the bad are. Often the competitors of these evils know this very well, because they see an unfair cost advantage for these evils. In sectors, it is often well known who is better and who is not complying with the law and who works with structures that are acceptable and who is not. Then, of course, you focus on the parties you know are ruining the market and not taking the law so closely. Nevertheless, this has not led to a great success. I will say a little more about the enforcement strategy for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u145	I would also like to understand it well and in my opinion there is still no answer to the question I will try to formulate again: how often has the Tax Administration not been detained internally but killed in its attempt to prove bad faith with the clients at the level of court, court or Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u146	The cases have all been found too light by their own legal jury to reach that stage at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u147	It's zero times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u148	That's exactly what I'm saying. It has been so bad that the own legal assessment already indicated that this evidence did not come to pass. Of course, the Tax Administration has been sniffing around the whole issue of VAR's and enforcement on independence several times, but this squeezer has even been stranded with the internal jury.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u149	In any case, I find it instructive to note that the external test has not been taken, whatever it might have produced. For example, it could have provided clarity on what, in the opinion of the court, court or Supreme Court, was lacking in the instruments or the possibilities of active evidence. I can only regret that we have therefore been spared that insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u150	The Tax Administration does have a rather strict policy of not starting unpredicted procedures, and this was really assessed as unpredicted procedures. Unsustainable procedures are not initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u151	The Secretary of State gives a clear picture of what went wrong and why a number of issues with current regulations would become difficult to follow up. He has promised that things will be better under the new system, so we will wait for that, but I still miss a bit of the argumentation. That is the question of what adjustments could have been made within the current system in order to achieve improvement without going into a major trajectory that would have resulted in all the enormous financial, human and implementation consequences involved. What direction of solution has he considered within the framework of the current system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u152	I'll get to that. But first, I have a few other things to explain. I'm trying to hold on to the order, or we're gonna jump off the branch. Then I'll be the first one who doesn't understand it anymore, and you'll be the second. Then we'll all get confused. So the IRS didn't succeed. But now there is something remarkable. We have, of course, seen this in the five cases recently brought before us by the staff of a courier company. This shows that what the Tax Administration does not succeed, individuals succeed. For there five supposedly self-employed couriers go to the judges; two of them are told that they are actually in employment. How is that possible? That is the sad thing: that safeguard applies, of course, in the public domain of the Tax Administration, but that is not bound by it at all. We are in a situation in which civil law, at high cost, much misery, blood, sweat and tears are easier to get you justice than simply enforcement by the Tax Administration, where that responsibility should lie. The enforcer assigned to it is powerless. So people have to get their own rights. If you're responsible for the IRS, you really think of that as an affront. If enforcement at the client level is not possible, we should focus on the contractor. That's in itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u153	Are you saying that, in retrospect, the tax authorities could have taken that route themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u154	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u155	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u156	I'm just saying that's not possible. 'Cause that's what that's for. Individuals have been able to get their rights because they have nothing to do with that safeguard. They can simply enforce their right in court, but the IRS can't get through that. There's a difference in position between these two. That is, of course, one of the poignant points. I share the surprised look that I see in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u157	A surprised look, and I'm not going to pretend that I understand your words. But it sounds at least like something that would have been or would have been illogical and non-reparable. In my view, it would be perfectly logical for the Tax Administration, too, to be able to challenge a situation where it believes that there is a wrongly used safeguard, in which the civil courts should be able to intervene. To be honest, it's a mystery to me why that wouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u158	All the should-haves and the-is-though-logicals I share. But it is only natural that, despite this cry of hearts, which I share entirely, and despite that surprise, which, as far as I am concerned, should also be outraged and which I share, is not so at the moment. There's a difference in position, which makes it work one way and the other one doesn't. That's undesirable. But this undesirableness has led us to turn to the contractor in recent years. Well, that's an efficiency blow down. Because instead of going to the greenhouse builder who has 200 men working for him, you have to go to one of those 200. You have to map his life, too, you have to put it under the Christmas tree. I am not an overly pathetic person, but it does mean that the government is targeting enforcement at the least informed party in the chain, which is also the weakest and, moreover, very often proven to be in good faith. Is that what we imagine in tax enforcement? Thatzzp'er, depending on the judgment, can eventually just lose his VAR. That VAR, which was actually considered to be some kind of work permit, he's losing. Maintaining government is aimed at visiting the weakest party in the chain and making him brothless. I'm not the butcher of the labour market. That's no way to maintain it, is it? We saw that too, because I am not the only one who is outraged by that. We had a sad low control rate of 125 a month. The IRS didn't achieve much with that, but he could withdraw VARs. I think I've had five AOs asking what you've done, you've made all these people brothless. Then I was sitting there, and I was actually totally in agreement with that. This is no way to do it. It's not! Isn't that a system that can't be repaired? Of course, yes, in two ways. The first way is that you say: yes, actually it would be much better if you gave that safeguard if there really is reason to believe that it is right. So that means that you have to have a more extensive set of questions that is exactly right for that employment relationship. So we have to have a VAR for each employment relationship separately, which is also true. To make that precise and automatic, you could create a web module for that. I support that in terms of construction, in the sense that it works. But then the industry said, well, that's where you saddle us with something. Well, I thought that all of this was a bit bad, but it wasn't a beauty, because the number of legal decisions didn't get smaller, but bigger. Many parties, clients and contractors have said: all nice and nice, but we will soon see ourselves with too much paper in the weather, so this would rather not. Then I withdrew that proposal. But that was one of the routes. There is another possibility, namely that you say: just do a conditioned safeguard. Only a safeguard if it turns out to be right after checking it out. That's the proposal I'm making right now. But then one thing is not necessary, namely the absolute safeguard. That just means that the tax authorities, if it's right, leave everyone alone and if it's not right, they're gonna do it again and then they're gonna do it again. That is exactly what this proposal is about. But there is no point in a VAR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u159	I hear two possibilities, but I don't hear a third possibility, which may still come. In the first term, I asked for it. On the basis of the current law, with bad faith, gross guilt or intent, there is a very heavy burden of proof. You have just shown this: this means that the Tax Administration cannot get out of its way towards the clients. However, one might imagine that a lighter form of burden of proof, such as lighter debt, will apply within formal law. Then you don't have to change anything to the current law, but you make it easier for the Tax Administration to proceed to the procedure in situations that are not proper. Then maybe they'll get through that filter of promising things. I don't hear you say that. Would you care to go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u160	Then we find ourselves in a situation where we are still not telling very clearly what is allowed and what is not allowed. For many we are already going to divide the complex distinction between employment and entrepreneurship into an area that is wrong, but not wrong enough and an area that is wrong and just wrong enough to be fined. Then we're gonna put some kind of conditioning somewhere in the middle. Then it is not only necessary to understand the difference between one and the other, but also that a border has been laid in the middle of a grey area. That's gonna be even more complicated. My proposal would be that I should come to that in a moment so as to give greater clarity here and actually do it as is not unusual in many other areas: if you abide by the law, it is good and if you do not, it is not good. But I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u161	I'd still like to stick to the current law. You just said that on thezzp'ers with a VAR, the contractors, you shouldn't be running a witch hunt. You've indicated why you shouldn't. I agree. But I obviously did not make my point very clear: the fact that these clients cannot be dealt with now is because there is too much burden of proof for the tax authorities. That burden of proof can be weakened, in the sense of lightening, so that it becomes easier for the tax authorities to sue. Then you don't create a gray area, no, you're talking about enforcing the existing law. As far as I am concerned, that is the 10% of cases where something may be wrong. This is not just about cases of fraud, but also about lighter forms that may not be fraudulent and can then be dealt with. You're not really going into that. I regret that, because this is necessary for the clarity of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u162	In that sense, it is impure to ask what is a lighter burden of proof. You can do two things. You can make the extent to which the Tax Administration can intervene depend on how wrong something is. That was my first interpretation of Mr Van Rij's proposal. There would be some sort of sliding scale of how far away this is from the law. That is not what Mr Van Rij meant, I understand. But now he's bringing in variations of how certain you are. I cannot imagine that an organisation which has the task of implementing the law can say: well, this does not require such a great burden of proof; we do not need to be so sure. That's amazing. You must always know, and you must be able to intervene on the basis of what you know. I will come back later to discuss why I believe this is the case with the new system. I don't think we should go to a situation where it's okay if the Tax Administration knows for sure whether it can prove a little bit. That, of course, is not the line by which we want to set this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u163	It's the gradation, the heaviness that matters to me. In criminal terms, is it intentional or is it grossly guilty? In that you have lighter degrees. It's not about security. The point is, for example, that there must be a slight form of debt. You can formulate that in the law. You don't want to do that. I believe that's more than that. In that case, you must also say that this is an unavoidable route, but I have not heard the arguments for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u164	Well, is it Mr Van Rooijen or Mr Rinnooy Kan's turn? It's fighting over the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u165	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u166	I got the button! In my perception, too, Mr Van Rij's question is the right one. Let me give you the example I gave earlier and the situation we repeatedly outlined. Someone's getting rid of a VAR. The following reports to the same client for the same work. That seems to me to be a good example of a situation in which you can rightly say that this client can never be entirely in good faith. If you can identify those situations every now and then, if you can specify them in any way in the current regime, and if you have the conviction that you do not even have to try to go to court, that is what you have said to me earlier, then I would say, precisely in line with Mr Van Rij's suggestion: do you not want to be instrumental in making that corridor to court, based on what you can report there, a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u167	A third figure is introduced here. At first I thought it was about how certain the Tax Administration was, then I thought it was about how wrong the client was, but now it's about how deliberately someone did it. I do not see any possibility of operationalizing that either. You might be able to tell a big crook from a little crook and maybe from a mistake, but how is that the burden of proof? I would like to come back to this in relation to the system as I see it, including the enforcement strategy, but I do not think we can build a system in which we can do anything along one of these degrees. Moreover, we do not do that elsewhere in the tax legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u168	You take the words out of my mouth: elsewhere in tax law. We have in our income tax system the system of declarations. In the report, you tell us about the past what the facts and the financial consequences are. The VAR is actually a report about the future. I agree with you that this is about uncertain circumstances, but it remains an assessment of what could be offered in the coming year. On that basis, the Tax Administration gives a warranty. You could say that it is implicitly conditioned by definition because it is always given on the basis of the information given by the person asking for the explanation. So my question is about something quite different from what Mr Van Rij said about the burden of proof of bad faith and so on. Our entire declaration system is not something I have to tell you, and I am also not relying on the confidence that the report on the past is correct. How can it be that we say in advance, let alone why that system has been undefined, that it does not work at all that someone who asks for it and gets it in good faith, because it has everything that we do not want or can control? For me, that is a very fundamental question which arises in the debate. I am not saying that we have to move away from the declaration of confidence about the previous year, but there is a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u169	Report on the past is, of course, different from reporting on the future, but it is also two different parties. The one who does his best to fill in truth, but does not always do so, is not the one who is protected. Whoever fills in the VAR, but may do so wrong, can certainly run into the lamp and lose his VAR. That can all happen to horrible things. The guarantee shall apply to the sponsor. He didn't have to check the VAR...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u170	Mr Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u171	The question is why whoever has a VAR runs into the lamp. If you report it wrong, you're gonna run into the lamp, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u172	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u173	If you rely on trust, but check if it is incorrect, as happens with the declaration for millions of taxpayers, especially outside the payroll tax, then the system also works that way. In other words, you could have a claused safeguard which would allow checks to be made in the event that a submitted VAR is incorrect. That is not being properly checked for, however, and I would like to leave aside why, but we could have that system. After all, we also have a declaration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u174	Aren't we saying the same thing now? If someone fills out something that is true, he can rely on it. If someone doesn't do that and things don't comply with the law, then the Tax Administration can impose a post-tax. Everyone is responsible for the accuracy of the data. Because this is about the future, it is almost uncomfortable and you have to give that certainty in advance. That is the great instrument that the Tax Administration has for this. I'll get back to you later. You're going a little faster than I am. That's why I'm afraid we're doing things twice. By the way, that's your right. I will deal with the synthesis of enforcement as it is now. I would almost put it this way: if I were sitting in the First Chamber, you might not see that happening, but I would be worried about Article 6a of the Pay Tax Act because it is obstructive. It is an eccentric figure in tax law and a dragon in social insurance law. In addition, giving advance forgiveness is the most expensive form of advance security you can give. It creates uncertainty, but also sends a bit of the zzp'er into the woods. He's just getting something taken away, but he thinks he's getting something. If, somewhere, social costs are very high, but the benefits are low and it can be done in a simpler way, then this Article 6a in the Wage Tax Act is in itself an extremely disproportionate article. So did the Council of State in 2005 when we introduced it. He didn't give a good report for it at all and gave an operative 4. Those who read the text see that a very heavy instrument is being introduced. The question is asked whether this is related to advance security and whether this cannot be done in other ways. That was the criticism of the Council of State when it was introduced. On the current bill, the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Employment Relations, the Council of State was certainly not negative: it received a blank opinion, the most positive advice you can get. When the Council of State doesn't say anything, he's positive. That's how it works. I believe this is even called "dictum 0." Something that was considered disproportionate at the time is now ahead of us to abolish again. My argument is that the deletion of a disproportionate legal provision is always proportional. I mean, "1" divided by "disproportionate" is "proportional." There's no other way. If the parties ask if this is proportionate, I will call twice the Council of State and this calculation. In my view, the elimination of a disproportionate provision must be proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u175	To my great relief I now enter an area of which I really have sense, namely: "1" divided by "something" is "something different." I can assure Mr Wiebes that it certainly cannot be that simple. Maybe he didn't think so either. In any case, I would say that the simple fact that something is being cleaned up that is at least critical does not lead to applause until it is established that what is being replaced is significantly better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u176	No, but that's not why I'm through talking to you. Indeed, Mr Rinnooy Kan owes it to me. I have just kept to the question that Mr Ester has asked the most impregnantly. What's the problem? How big a problem is that? What I should describe as a problem from my role as a enforcer is that people and companies use tax-entrepreneurship facilities to which they are not entitled, on the basis of legislation and case law. Anyone who considers that private here to be a problem is another matter. I have a duty to implement the law and this is a problem for me. We can then ask ourselves whether this is a major problem. If you don't put down a flash pole, you'll never know exactly how many times you're going through a red light. We did a little test, and that came out 10% - 20%. Someone else came out at 2% - 14%. I don't think this is a small number at all. If we found out it was like this in the Vpb, the house would be too small. We can talk a long time here about what's big and what's small. Let me approach it from another side, and I find that encouraging: the improvement is visible. You can determine with each other whether it is a major problem, but we see in this process together that a professionalisation stroke is being made. The social parties have deposited themselves in this field and are starting to find out with each other, and with the Tax Administration, how the law works, what is allowed and what is not. The final example agreements are almost always better than the first version. In the first version, the Tax Administration was sometimes shocked and thought: so, is this the practice? As time passes, that field begins to professionalize and we begin to learn this with each other. Yeah, IRS, too! That's an indication. It's getting better. The legislative proposal to which this goes leads to nothing but the deletion of that one disproportionate legal provision. Mr Rinnooy Kan has told us that we are talking about 10 articles. I believe that this is about Article 10 and a few other things. I think it's all in Article 2. Take this piece of shit away, that's what it says. This also means that a lot of things don't happen. Legislation and case law determine who is allowed to work inside and outside employment. That legislation does not change. Anyone who's a real self-employed person is going to be a self-employed person. Anyone who doesn't turn out to be a real self-employed person isn't now either. The whole concept of entrepreneurship is governed by laws and case law which are not currently in place. All that doesn't change. That is also a disappointment for many of you. There are many of you who, sometimes in opposite directions, would like to change things. I must also disappoint you in the opposite sense, because that is not the case. I'll explain later why it doesn't have to be a package. We're gonna give you security in advance, too. This doesn't appear in the law, but it's one of the oldest metiers in the IRS. To give security in advance, in which the Dutch Tax Administration is world-famous. We are doing this more than anywhere else, because in this economy, this is a transit economy. Everyone is trading with everyone. We know that tax systems are very complex. The Tax Administration provides security in advance, through pre-consultation and always in accordance with the law. We have drawn up a comprehensive system of exemplary agreements for this purpose. Anyone can read this on the site.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u177	I object to this metaphor. Not because I want to say something unworthy about the ruling practice of the Dutch Tax Administration. Who am I to do that, because it's highly praised. The metaphor is false because it is not a question of customization on a case-by-case basis, but of large agreements of which thousands or perhaps tens of thousands should benefit. That is a fundamentally different subject. I'm not saying the IRS can't. I am just saying that it is not a question of declaring the Tax Administration competent in this respect on the basis of an expertise that lies in a very different field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u178	I could still understand the argument the other way around. If we could cover everything in other tax areas with six generic agreements, I would have said that this is another thing, because we have to provide thousands of different guarantees in advance or rulings. Can the IRS do that? Here it's the other way around. Unfortunately, in other areas, we are obliged to provide tailor-made services everywhere. This is still pretty complicated operationally. We have a whole department for this, in Rotterdam. Fortunately, it is easier here because more parties are willing to work with the same example agreements, which have been adopted in full compliance with the law. It's not harder, it's easier. I know I'm getting an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u179	That is an advance on the success of these large generic model agreements, isn't it? On the contrary, this success is by no means yet established. I do not understand how the Secretary of State can already claim that this is going to be a success story, for which we should be grateful, and that it will be a new triumph of the Dutch Tax Administration, while there is so much evidence for the claim that there is still something to be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u180	The question was not whether it would be a success, but whether the provision of advance security in this case would not be more complicated than in other cases. I have said that providing security in advance is more operational than in many other areas. I would like to make the point that it will be a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u181	So we're talking about unsuccessful security in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u182	No, we're talking here about whether it's easier or harder to give security in advance. To give security in advance is conceivable, because the Tax Administration has the people in the house, in cooperation with the UWV. This is, in itself, a limited number of contracts and a limited number of assessments in the terms of the Tax Administration. That's operationally good to man. That means that the new system introduces a number of things. Two things are particularly important to me. The first is clarity instead of fog, security in advance. We can all see how it works. This has a great look. All of a sudden, we're starting to get involved. Here too, people are starting to worry about it. Are you sure this is true? Is this even fair? That is exactly the kind of professionalisation we need, clarity. The second is incentives. If we fully safeguard a party in the chain, that dialogue will not be established. That party will not benefit from that, I understand. Now clients and contractors will also work together and ask the question: how do we really want to deal with this? The result of this, I shall say more about it later, is not only that we have a great legal circuit less. There will be 500,000 decisions that its legal documents are I do not think that we should rely on a situation in which we must fight false self-employment. My point is that we are here avoiding false self-employment. The clarity is already going to do a lot of work. Mrs Sent, Mr Van Strien and Mr Rinnooy may have asked whether this would not lead to greater administrative burdens. Some of the questioners left the question mark. It is now the practice that someone applies for a VAR once a year and then on each assignment it is in practice a kind of work permit to send his VAR. You can send or copy her with the order confirmation. VARs are everywhere in the archives. If you have ten clients, there are ten copies of your VAR somewhere in the world and these need to be archived and stored over and over again. Those who are going to adhere to an example agreement will only have to agree with each other in the e-mail conversation in which the contract is agreed on, which agreement they are going to keep in order to obtain security in advance. In itself, that is not even necessary. Imagine you do nothing at all and stick to example agreement number three, without capturing it. If you stick to that, that's a deal for the IRS, too. Whoever abides by the law abides by the law. It's not like if you don't meet up to stick to the law, you're gonna get a warrant. If you stick to it, pick one, it's a deal. If you want to have explicit security in advance, this will be especially desired by a client, then this can be agreed in advance in the e-mail conversation. Instead of sending that paper, you can exchange this agreement or clause with each other. That's it. These are not administrative burdens. They are even less administrative burdens. Take a look inside the walls of the IRS. Somewhere in the country there are 60 people and they are working on this whole circus: the zzp'er including the delivery of the decisions. 40 of them are working on the paper mill, because they are working on that half million decisions. They're posting all those decisions. There are then 20 employees left for enforcement. Of course, that's not an affair. The idea that we use more than half of our enforcement capacity to send paper! This makes it more difficult for those other 20 people. Mr Ester has specifically asked me whether there should be a new agreement in the music sector per act. No, not by gig. We shouldn't tell all those paper ghost stories. If we're gonna say that kind of thing, people in the country are gonna do it. We don't want that at all, because then we'll have another paper factory. Let's do it the way it's meant to be. If you stick to it, it's okay. If you exchange it with each other and meet with each other, that can be two sentences in the mail... you also have the security in advance of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u183	I don't make up those examples myself, they come to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u184	I know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u185	A lot of examples are coming to us. In any case, they point out that information is not in order. If these are the images that go around in thezzp world in large numbers, then we have a problem, especially the Tax Office, to optimally serve those people. There's confusion and unrest. How does the Secretary of State oppose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u186	I think Mr Ester sees very clearly that there is a huge amount of stories in circulation. Some stories are real ghost stories. In previous light, we have heard these stories sometimes too. Partly the stories come up that I have heard in the same form prior to the treatment in the House of Representatives. There are also a lot of things that are a point, but not so much to do with this bill. There are indeed very good points. However, there are also things that I do not understand at all. I will deal with a number of points later. Several questions have been asked about it, and when I answer them, I'll pass by.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u187	Does the Secretary of State understand where those points come from? Is this perhaps due to the emphasis in the VAR system on the generic position in the order, either as an entrepreneur or as an employee? If you can present a VAR, you have a certain generic image for yourself: all the things I do are included. Of course, there may be things that just don't add up, but that's the flight route. That approach route is now shifting to any occasional employment relationship. That's actually a diversion of the accents. I can well imagine that manyzzp'ers raise the following question: if each relationship has to be assessed separately and any minor deviation of the tool or whatever else might be included, that gives precisely uncertainty. That's a little bit more than a ghost story. This is the result of another system whereby the approach route from the generic to the specific employment relationship is shifted. That's not entirely illogical, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u188	There really is nothing like a generic safeguard for a client. That's the most delicious thing there is for an entrepreneur. It not only provides certainty, but also saves costs. So there's nothing like that. The entrepreneurs did not come to me on their knees with the question: can we not get rid of that safeguard? They didn't. I wouldn't have done it either. However, they have been generous in recognizing that this was a very strange figure. They're gonna be working on a system that was second best for them. The entrepreneurs can now live with it in large numbers. The remarkable thing is that much of the concern comes not from the bigzzp organisations, but from individualzzp'ers or parties who speak on their behalf. Many had or have the impression that the VAR was right to give them security, while the only one was to take away the right to social security from them. When something that has become felt when a work permit is taken away from you, your first reaction is: something is taken away from me! You might reflect the future lack of the VAR on the current situation in which you desperately need her. The party that objectively loses something, but also generously and in exchange for a lot of security in advance, I hear less than the party that actually did not benefit from this system at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u189	I wasn't talking about the clients. I was talking about the contractors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u190	So do I. It is precisely the contractors who are very worried about the idea that they are losing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u191	I understand. I'd like to finish my sentence, if the Secretary of State would allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u192	I'll grant you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u193	That's even nicer, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. No one goes above that, at least not in this house. Does the Secretary of State understand that what he calls ghost stories, I'd prefer to call it uncertainty, is related to a shift in the system? The approach route shifts from a generic statement to a specific statement per employment relationship. Any specific action or exception to it can create much more uncertainty. If he doesn't understand that, I understand that he uses terms like "ghost stories." A little more understanding of the uncertainty that arises from this could help to move forward in the debate. What's it in? What's really the change in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u194	I agree with the analysis of the client. It was generically protected by the VARs and had nothing to worry about. I don't know if I can join the individualzzp'er. In the end, this goes from a situation with generic false certainty to specific guarantees. I think manyzzp'ers have attached a different value to the VAR. The VAR has never done that, but it lives. Information on this is indeed very important, as Mr Ester said. You can't do that enough. I'm endlessly involved with parties and sitting endlessly in front of people who start again against me about that great paper circus. If I work that out with them, they'll drop the objection, but there'll be something else. You've been working on fears a lot. Some of them may be ghost images, others are justified. However, it is important that we develop a system in which advance security is at the heart of all parties in a fair way, with a balance between the client and the contractor. One shouldn't be the king of security, while the other is being pushed a little under. Both parties must receive a fair portion of the security in advance. They must derive their trust in the system from this. There's still a long way to go in there, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u195	We are approaching a core ingredient of this discussion. For the first time, I hear the Secretary of State admit that there may indeed be reason for the client to feel a little more insecure in his new environment than in his old environment. That has a lot to do with history. However, it also has to do with authentic risks that are going to exist in this new environment. There weren't any in the old neighborhood. That seems to me to be a key point of the debate. I hope that the Secretary of State will state in detail why he is at least not concerned about that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u196	I'll come back to that later. This is covered by the advance security point. A lot of questions have been asked about how to do it later. Mr Van Rij started with that, but also Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Van de Ven asked for it. The core must be that this becomes a system in which we avoid false self-employment rather than fines. The tax authorities shouldn't think that there would be a system in which we bet on large-scale fines. There is no tax area where we have to pay large-scale fines. The situation the Tax Administration is aiming at is that compliance is such that you do nothing excessive with an appropriate dose of enforcement and without large circuits of fines there is compliance. You don't do that with violence, but by providing clarity, having incentives and communicating clearly about what is and isn't allowed. That shouldn't be a witch hunt. There may be a few witches in different branches, but I think we'll be done with that soon. I think they will soon see that they can be better prevented than cured. Then we must set ourselves at an appropriate and normal level of enforcement, with the people who are available for it. We must do this at client level and not necessarily at individual contractors. Of course, we shouldn't do that in the administration. A book search doesn't help with this. That's obvious. The books are probably fine, but it's about the difference between the workplace and the book. The IRS does this all the time. This is very common in the area of wage taxation. You can imagine. In the area of wage taxation, the Tax Administration has to assess whether this corresponds to the accounting system. That's what we do from greenhouses to brothels. The moment it plays, you have to assess the work situation on the spot. In all branches, the Tax Administration has experience with it. Think also of other tax areas, such as the hunt for black catering turnover. That's why you have to go to the cafe. You're judging a lot of things in the workplace. That's not a book search. You have to see that the agreement that has been concluded fits the work situation you find. You can see all kinds of things. You look at whether the model agreement works, for example when it comes to the relationship of authority and the freedom of work. Who decides the stakes? Is there a plan of your own? Is there a schedule? Are there any investments, vans or whatever? What about replacement? Replacement is very easy to put on paper, but you also look at the extent to which replacement really exists and happens. That's the way in which the Tax Office is maintained in the workplace. That's how he's gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u197	This brings the necessary clarification. I asked what enforcement policy would be. I hear the Secretary of State say two things. First of all, he said the IRS isn't gonna do a book search. That's not the bet. Of course, he didn't say that the Tax Administration is never going to do book research, because he simply can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u198	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u199	However, the main line is not to do book research. Secondly, the Secretary of State has said that there is a check on payroll taxes. The Tax Administration then comes by and, in consultation with the people responsible for the payroll tax in that company, examines whether everything is going well. The employer has a duty to include income tax and social security contributions on the wages he pays to his employees. As a result, I can very well imagine that the same employer, if he hireszzp'ers and therefore wears the client's hat, will show in that payroll tax investigation how he arranged it. I can imagine a lot of that. No employer/customer needs to be afraid of that. He just needs to make sure his records are in order and his files are in order. Then it's not a witch hunt. Do I understand correctly that this will be at the heart of enforcement policy if this becomes law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u200	Mr. Rinnooy Kan, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u201	I'd love to. I am also pleased with this passage, because I would like to understand it. I have a supplementary question. I referred earlier to risks for clients in this new situation and in the context as outlined here. In my view, one of the nervousness of clients is the feeling that the reality will be compared with the model agreement in such a conversation, visit or inspection. Then the feeling is that things may not be right at all. Something happens. You leave your hammer at home and then you borrow one. Do you have a serious problem? This is not even such a frivolous example, because it has been mentioned many times. But I'm sure there's a lot more to come up with. That's why a lot of employers prefer not to. They're wondering what's hanging over their heads. Then there is a flight to the intermediaries, with all the consequences. I'm sure the Secretary of State's gonna say a little bit more about that. I therefore agree with Mr Van Rij that this is enlightening, but I do not feel it reassuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u202	It's not necessarily just about reality versus the agreement. If a client does not adhere exactly to the agreement, but does not sin against the law and does not clearly operate in such a way as to create an employment relationship, there is no reason to intervene. The purpose of the entire exercise is not to work according to the model agreement, the goal is to work according to the law. If a party makes a choice that deviates from the model agreement, it does not have to be against the law. I would also be careful with slightly too caricatured examples like the one with the hammer. It's not new for the Tax Administration to check important things on the workplace. You could have endless discussions about details. The IRS is doing it in all sorts of ways. I just gave the example of black catering sales, the situation in greenhouses or the brothel. Everywhere, the Tax Administration judges and has to act like a normal regulator. If something's obviously wrong, something's obviously wrong. However, the Tax Administration has learned to stay in the reasonable. I also sometimes receive letters with examples in which the Tax Administration did not do so, but I also receive letters about this. In the past, there has also been criticism in this section that the Tax Administration interfered very much with the details and was very strict. However, there were just as many reports that the Tax Administration was very loose. I'll get back to you on this. I think we should focus on a normal level of enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u203	Perhaps this also has to do with the fact that the Tax Administration itself says so explicitly that the certainty it wants to offer only applies when the model agreement is given its place literally, word by word, in the final agreement. This creates at least a culture in which there is a fear that any deviation may have fatal consequences, and that culture is also emerging.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u204	I must honestly say that I agree to some extent with the speaker as regards the use of words by the Tax Administration on his site. I, too, have put forward suggestions for a different way of putting things. I'll pay attention to this one more time. If other people notice it, maybe that's not the way to communicate. We just said that communication is so important. We need to move towards a situation where this is a normal sector, with normal enforcement and with a normal and high level of compliance. That's what the tax authorities usually do pretty well. I admit that there are also things that the Tax Administration is not good at, but they come back into other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u205	Mr Ganzevoort, you may have another interruption, but I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to continue his speech for a while without interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u206	I totally get it. If I have heard the Secretary of State's story correctly, at least one thing is going to change. In the current situation, the clients were not all of good will. On all fronts, they were just trying to get around the rules. In the new system, they are all of good will. What's that based on? Apparently there is a behavioral effect that will increase the good will widely. I think that would be great. Maybe the Secretary of State can explain that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u207	I did not say that there is no large-scale goodwill. I think that by far the majority of non-conformity has been found among parties of good will, but simply did not know it. I am not saying that there is going to be a phenomenal change of character by "I'm just calling it chemical manipulation or electroshocks." For this occasion here is the cold economist. If you ensure an appropriate level of enforcement and incentives in two directions, so that the two parties in the chain have to come together and also benefit from complying with the rules, you will also more often follow the rules. If you don't tell parties how it really works and say they don't benefit from knowing it, things really go wrong. That's what we have to do. As it is now fundamentally regulated, we are asking for false self-employment. It's still a miracle it's been 10%. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked about the review framework and the enforcement strategy. I should like to say a few words about this. All aspects that play a role in the assessment of the agreement by the Tax Administration are on the site. Internally they are called "the red and the green provisions." The real name's here somewhere in a folder. On the website of the Tax Administration you can find which things contribute to an employment and which things contribute to an assessment "out of employment." We are now working on this further in a so-called hand-out assessment model agreement. That's basically an internal thing. However, if something is judged internally by the Tax Administration, there is of course nothing against and even worse: much for, to make that thing public. The further impact on the site is thus coming. There will therefore also be more attention to the weighting. Eventually it will also be a thing that can play a role in the courts, which will have a formal role in the whole. Let me give you my word on this. It was not the plan, but there is really nothing against making it public. The assessment should then be carried out in the review framework by auditors who are well placed in case law, who know the law and who consider the aspects as professionals. As in any other complex area of taxation that has been identified by open standards, it must be assessed in this way. We do it with all kinds of things, open standards. Good merchant use is one. There are also all kinds of specialists and such a review framework. We do, and that should be public. Here's to it. I would like to say something about the enforcement strategy in a generic sense, but we would be crazy if we made the precise enforcement strategy public. If you tell parties that no one ever comes by, we're back to square one. That's not convenient either. In the enforcement strategy, enforcement will often focus on clients, but not on all clients. We know the bad guys. Sometimes we've known them for years, sometimes all the competitors know the bad guys too. Of course, we have to get through that first, that's important. That's how we guarantee a fair level playing field. There is also something to be solved in many of these industries. I don't think that's a good idea for the IRS. It was already in my notes, but intensive information is an important part of the soup here. I know few areas where there is so much information before the parties know what we are up to, what is going on, what is happening, what is expected of them and how they are going to take care of things. Uncertainty is really the sand in the machine of the economy. We must remove the uncertainty and provide as much clarity as possible. This is a strong blow that also affects the implementation process. The question was then asked whether clients now become reluctant to hire zzp'ers. Are we gonna do more or less now? I have heard two or three of the speakers present in the same speech say that they are afraid that there will be morezzp'ers and that there will be fewer. It's hard to look into the future, but let me just say this and whether you're happy with it or not, you can decide for yourself. There is a apparent need for flexibility and freedom from clients and contractors. The abolition of the VAR does not change that inherently. The rules according to which someone is in or out of employment do not change. In itself, clients could be deterred if there is a lack of clarity and lack of clarity about the legal position. This was a point made by Mr Rinnooy Kan. He said that they could be deterred because of uncertainty. So that's exactly what shouldn't happen. I have to take care of that very hard. In the labour market, clarity and security are needed in advance. So we have to guarantee that very well. It's on the site and it's low-threshold, but again, there's gonna be some information before everyone knows how it works. Then clients can also be deterred if they find that their way of working does not fit and that their contractors actually work in employment. That is not weird in itself, because that is the purpose of enforcement. The purpose of enforcement is to prevent what is not allowed. In this process, parties have also been disappointed. At educational institutions people discover that the history teacher at the lyceum who gives twenty hours of history a week, is scheduled for twenty hours and is judged by the rector, does not turn out to be an entrepreneur. I can't make an entrepreneur out of it either. Well, that's true. In our law it seems so arranged that a teacher of history scheduled for the lyceum and judged by the rector is not an entrepreneur. Those are the cases that will no longer qualify as zzp'er. There are others on the other side who do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u208	Mr Rinnooy Kan, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u209	I'll be brief. These are the 10% false self-employed, to which the Secretary of State refers, who are now actually caught in the act. We have no choice but to be at peace with that. My point is that there are already examples of situations where there is no reason to suspect that this is happening. I refer, for example, to the letter sent by the NTR to all those with whom the NTR maintained such a relationship, in which the intention is announced in advance to exclude risks by engaging the intermediary. That too I have previously qualified as a highly undesirable side effect. I hope that the Secretary of State will come back to this or else again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u210	I had it on my schedule later. Then let's take the example of the NTR. That was in Het FD as an example of a client who was so shy that he thought that constructions had to be worked on. I was very surprised about that and so I called the director of the NTR. He's related to the well-known actor family. I was very honored to get him on the phone. He told me that he had completely annoyed himself to death with the coverage and that it was not at all in conformity with reality. He had a strong discussion with a number of pitchers, because he felt that the quality and also the rates were not in order. There were strong words about this and they were certainly not out yet, but the disappearance of the VAR had nothing to do with it. I also offered him that, should he intend, whatever he may be, to continue working with single-pitters, where this would fit in with the law, and that is to be expected in this area to contact the Tax Administration in order to see how this could possibly be incorporated into an appropriate and legal model agreement. And that's how we broke up. I'll be on the intermediaries in a minute. Mr Ganzevoort asked about the impact on the various groups. The zzp'er at the top of the market is often evident entrepreneur. Some or many of them don't even have a VAR. There are 800,000zzp'ers and there are only 500,000 VARs. Many people don't have them, they're so obvious entrepreneurs that they don't need that circus at all. For them, that doesn't change anything. If these people choose to work according to a model agreement, they can derive certainty from it. When I read the Ibo zzp, most of the people at the bottom are still those who might feel compelled to work as bogus self-employed. And that happens often without knowing it. How could these people have suddenly made a study of labour law? So they often do it without knowing and therefore run a risk. The only thing she's been taken away from is the right to social security. Enforcement means that in any case the client must choose either a clean construction or an employment. This could help these people. Again, for clients there is nothing more beautiful than unconditional and infinite safeguard. I am very grateful to the clients and also to the organisations that speak on their behalf that they are willing to think about for a second, but are confident that we can offer security in advance. We are so productive about this and in conversation that I think it will eventually succeed for the simple reason that they too think that this will work eventually. Notoire offenders may not have a good life in the beginning, but I think that their competitors who feel unfairly competitive do enjoy the fact that notorious offenders disappear. Mr Ganzevoort thinks there will be more real false self-employed, but I do not see the logic of that. We cannot now maintain false self-employment, and we will later. We're going to have to make sure there's clarity when there isn't. I'm sure there'll be fewer bogus self-employed. A bogus self-employed person who runs into the lamp or otherwise joins in the employment relationship, eventually has more rights. I'm only at the end of the first block. I will try to speed up, Mr President, but I cannot leave one important question in the first block unanswered. This question is very much asked: why are we not waiting for the comprehensive reform? I have already confessed that I am sometimes less flattering about the labour market. I still do, but these days, I'm just doing it in private. I am not just critical of the permanent contract. I even have a single critical word about how things are arranged with thezzp'ers. I sometimes even have twenty critical words on both subjects. I fight for more people at work; I make no secret of that. I believe that the current labour market is still far from contributing to this. I do have a certain enthusiasm. So you do not hear me saying that we have the right system, in no way. I have seen the whole discussion from front to back, but I do not see in this constellation very broad support for major reforms in the labour market. I really look beyond the coalition, but even then I have not found broad support. But let's be practical. There is a real obstacle here and we can eliminate it no regret. Let us say that we will come to a broader reform of the labour market later. Then there are two outcomes. Either the difference in tax treatment between azzp'er and an employee remains in one way or another. Then the VAR will continue to be obstructive. Or the tax difference between an employee and azzp'er disappears completely. For some, that might be the Valhalla. Then the VAR is not obstructive but redundant. In all cases, abolition is a good idea. Whoever rejects this limited no-regret intervention is like someone who doesn't want to close the skylight during a rainstorm because he has in mind that the sewer will ever have to be replaced. Let's close the skylight, because it's raining, and then we're gonna save up for a new sewer. That's what I'd like to do. That is why I welcome the support of manyzzp organisations, employers' organisations and the trade union movement. So there is a lot of support, but there are also many comments, many wishes and many fears. There are many wishes that do not have so much to do with this, but also wishes that do have to do with this. These are things that we have to deal with in the professionalisation battle and things that we should have dealt with ten years ago, but they are now hitchhiking. So there are a lot of concerns, but there is also a lot of support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u211	The Secretary of State's metaphor must not remain undisputed. He holds a certain picture and qualifies it as a no-regret option, but it depends entirely on what is or is not going to happen in the meantime in anticipation of that broad reform, of which I recognise the complexity very well. That's exactly what we talk about all the time. From various parties, certainly from my group, concerns have been expressed about the undoubtedly unintended side effects on the design of clients, both at the top of the labour market and at the bottom of the labour market. I would also like to say a few words about the latter. After all, we have hardly talked about this. What is to be expected at this point? We come from a regime in which a fictional employment for equals is, in any case, a reality. It is a reality that provides for those who are subject to it the security that belongs to a regular employee relationship, with at most a forced departure to the VAR, precisely in order to be able to get out of it. Now we are going to a situation where it becomes much easier, if not very attractive, by the General Measure of Management introduced by the State Secretary to get rid of that fictitious employment. Instead, at the bottom of the labour market, by means of the generic clause which allows free replacement, it is very easy to allow many people to have no option other than to disappear in a non-zzp relationship, which gives them an unpleasant perspective. Earlier, the Secretary of State said that some people are concerned about the decline in the number ofzzp'ers while at the same time worrying about the increase in the number ofzzp'ers. I belong to that category. I am one of the categories that is afraid that thezzp'ers we spoke about earlier will indeed see their chances fall, for reasons that we have discussed earlier, while thezzp'ers at the bottom of the labour market, for whom many here have to worry, see their future deteriorate by introducing an attractivezzp perspective, which is based on a clause in labour law that this State Secretary has no control over. That worries me. That is what I want to say before the first block is completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u212	I do not know whether the Secretary of State will also comment on my speech at the end of the first block. I hope so. The Secretary of State has spoken about labour market reform. I have personal ideas about that. You can make the differences fiscally very small or eliminate them or leave them as big as they are now, but I can imagine that the Secretary of State has a fundamental opinion on this. I therefore asked him this afternoon for his opinion on this point. There is a system that stresses the difference between employee and self-employed in tax facilities. You can agree with that or not, but it is obvious that there is a big difference. Does the Secretary of State think it can stay that way or should it go? He points to two extremes and then comes up with his story about the roof window and the sewer. I understand you always have to keep the roof window and the window closed when it rains, but I think you need to fix the sewer at the same time, and not maybe ever. That sewer is a much bigger problem. In other words, you can expect the Secretary of State responsible for taxation to expect him to think that we are in the right line, so that we can keep him on the right track, or that he, like others, thinks that the labour market is working badly? In that case, he must ask himself why it is and whether the tax difference could be related to it. This is independent of the government's opinion and ultimately the Chamber's opinion. Will the Secretary of State come back to this or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u213	I'll come back to it now. I believe that the debate on the sewer can take place separately from the discussion on the roof hatch. I think we should close the roof hatch now. My hands itch to be working on the sewers, too. Mr Van Rooijen knows that too. In this respect, I always show a sense of reform. However, my personal opinion is of no use to the Chamber. That doesn't fit me in this profession at all. There is no point in throwing all these personal views around here. The cabinet has found that a social debate is needed in order to achieve a vision of the labour market. That's not entirely incomprehensible. Those who follow the discussion in other rooms and in other parts of this society can also imagine that the solution is not just for us on the streets. So that's the choice. I don't think it's right for me, on this evening, when it's not at all about this, to throw all these personal opinions around. Nor will I, other than expressing my reform spirit. Nor will I philosophize about the budgetary effects of any options and what variant in the Ibozzp is more attractive than any other. As soon as the nuts are presented and the first glass of wine is drunk, I like that more. But I don't do it here, even because it's not my role. That doesn't fit me at all. Eventually it's gonna be chatting on my part, and I don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u214	Mr Van Rooijen, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u215	This is only my second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u216	If you all want to stay here until nightfall, it's fine with me, but we still have to see that we get the whole debate done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u217	Some colleagues are allowed to interrupt ten or fifteen times, but I have to keep an eye on the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u218	You're not bad with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u219	I wasn't referring to the Secretary of State's personal vision. I am referring to the fact that, as a responsible member of the cabinet, the position of the Secretary of State for Finance, there is not just one person who could fight for a different wording in the cabinet letter, as it was written in October about the ibo report. I have the feeling that the Council of State has pointed this out a long time ago, and the ibo report also states that this issue is being postponed. That is also in the documents, because there must first be social support. In this context, the Secretary of State also referred to a reduction in the longer term differences. I am very concerned about the term 'longer term'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u220	I take note of that, but the letter from colleagues Kamp and Asscher speaks volumes. I fight my battle, but not in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u221	I see the Secretary of State still has a lot of files.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u222	They're not all necessary. I'm gonna try to throttle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u223	How much longer do you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u224	I don't know. I can give you a little gas, but we'll have to agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u225	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u226	Several questions have been asked, not about the system, but about the example agreements. They're not about the bill, because the model agreements aren't in the law. They are not about the system, but about individual assessments, about the existing demarcation between employment and entrepreneurship and about the quality of the model agreements. The first is not a matter for the Tax Administration, the second is, but because the discussion is equally desirable for the functioning of this part of the labour market, I will deal with it. The worries go in all directions. Is existing legislation making it too easy or too difficult to work out of employment? Are the model agreements too broad or too restrictive an explanation of the law? Are we saying that Mr Van Rij said it on all snails salt? I am not in the category of laying salt on snails, but the question is certainly relevant. I hear both "there will be much less zzp'ers" and "there will be many more zzp'ers." One of the issues that played a very important role in this is the question of the discrepancy between civil and fiscal law. If there is a civil contract of employment, in accordance with the Civil Code, then there is also an employment relationship for the taxation of wages. There is no difference, because this is based on the same legal basis. The only exception is a number of fictitious service relationships appointed. These are also fictional service relationships, because one of them is different from the other. Unlike the fictitious service relations that have been appointed, they must then be the same. That was also Mrs Sent's statement, and I fully agree with it. They are both determined by the same legal basis, but also by the same facts and circumstances. You can test them in advance and judge them. In assessing the agreements for tax purposes, the Tax Administration uses the principles of the Civil Code and labour law case law. That's the spirit. There shouldn't be any light in there. That's supposed to be right. That's about whether or not you're in employment. There they run in parallel, but it is not yet about entrepreneurship, because that is something else. Entrepreneurship arises from different employment contracts in one form or another. If there is no employment, there is no tax on wages, but that does not say anything about the qualification of income for income tax. If there is no employment, income for income tax can still be seen as profit from enterprise.............................................................................................................................................................. You can still do that. This means that you are not employed for a particular employment relationship, but also that you are not an entrepreneur. I am going to talk about the differences between them. For VAT, it is not parallel. Entrepreneurship for VAT is wider than entrepreneurship for Ib. There's a difference. In the Competition Act, things are different. Whatever concerns existed, civil, labour law and tax, it should just be the same. There must be no difference between them. This means that the criteria which Mrs Sent is proposing, which the assessment of the Tax Administration should in fact comply with, are correct. That's what it's supposed to be. Soon we will see how we can determine whether this is the case, what we can do to ensure that it is and will remain so, but it is right that it should agree and that it should be possible to do so by means of labour law. There are other points, such as payrolling. I have already mentioned the NTR example. No one has to turn on an intermediary, because there is security in advance. Nor does this change make it more advantageous to engage an intermediary in any way. Of course, it's not up to the Empire to decide who turns on an intermediary. You can hire an intermediary for all kinds of reasons. Even the Tax Administration sometimes resorts to intermediaries to ensure quality or continuity. There may be all kinds of reasons for that, but that's what market players really are about. It is not desirable, in answer to many questions, that it should become more attractive, as a result of the lapse of the VAR, to use an intermediary only for this reason. That's not what we're looking for. Disintermediation is in full swing and then we would do the opposite by dropping the VAR. That is not desirable and does not make sense. I can't imagine what that could be about. The core is that intermediaries, if they exist and where they exist, are also companies. They must comply with the same law in the same way, with possible model agreements coming from the same site. The DBA also applies to them and they are also controlled. You can't say I'm being controlled now, I'm responsible for it, but I'm shifting it to someone who's out of sight. You can't do that because that's where the IRS works. Intermediaries also include the fact that an entrepreneur is an entrepreneur, an employment contract is an employment contract and an employee is an employee. The card of the payrolling is drawn firmly, but in many cases this has to do with other things than this law. Mr Van Strien is concerned whether this could also be done in the care sector. It seems undesirable to me if this happens as a result. It doesn't make any sense to me either. I am therefore working on it in a commitment. I know two other colleagues in the cabinet who would find this illogical, but also very undesirable. I'm gonna agree with them that we're gonna keep a close eye on it. I am also prepared to reconnect, before the law enters into force, what we see happening in this regard. If we see anything happen, I will also indicate what to do about it. There is no reason for it, it does not yield any social profit, it is not desirable and not logical, but some illogical things do happen. We don't see them yet, but it's an important point. I therefore pledge that we will pay particular attention to this. Mrs. Sent spoke about liability in the event of damage. It states that the division of liability in example agreement No. 3 does not comply with labour law. I cannot say much about this, because the division of liability is not part of the tax assessment of the employment relationship. We have coloured the relevant provisions yellow, but the liability is not yellow. At the same time, I do not think it is up to the Tax Administration or me to check whether a liability paragraph is in line with labour law. If it isn't necessary, I'll say we'll just take it out. It also cleans up nicely. But it's also irrelevant and it's possible to confuse. Whether or not there are things that are entirely in line with labour law is an assessment that I cannot make myself, but I just assume from Mrs Sent that the imbalance she finds might also be visible to a lot of other people and that it is therefore not in the interest of this matter to leave him in it. So I'm just gonna get rid of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u227	Mr Rinnooy Kan, may I also ask you to be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u228	I am going to do my best, Mr President, but we are now passing a very crucial point in the earlier reasoning. This is precisely what we are talking about here. Would the Secretary of State want to reflect on the situation that arises when a tax declaration, which in fact provides the certainty of non-wage taxes, suddenly encounters a labour-law denial of it? Even the European legal situation can lead to the successful recourse of those concerned to an existing collective agreement. If that tax statement is issued, what exactly is the position of the client in question, who is suddenly an employer? Can he or will he not continue to rely on the IRS' commitment? If it is the case and contributions have to be paid, who will pay them in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u229	Civil labour law and taxation are pointing in the same direction as regards the assessment of employment. By the way, of course, both spheres of legislation are also about all other things, on which other conclusions may be reached. You come to the conclusion on the same basis that something is an employment. But then Mrs Sent comes to the conclusion that something that stands there is in any case labour law, in terms of liability sharing, not neat. That is not something that affects taxation. Both of them are not parallel, but that is what we are getting out of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u230	It is precisely the situation in which the tax and labour law perspective do not match.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u231	Then, for example, we are dealing with matters such as liability sharing. One doesn't say anything about it and the other does. The assessment of whether something is an employment is based on exactly the same legal basis and on exactly the same case law. That's no different; there's no difference. There are also a lot of different goals in these two spheres of legislation, but the assessment of employment has just borrowed one law from the other. That doesn't differ, except for the fictitious employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u232	Finally, Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u233	Apparently, I'm not making myself clear. Of course, the starting point may be identical, but the conclusions may differ. There are examples of this; the Secretary of State knows that. My question is again: what is the situation for the client who suddenly turns out to be an employer? The client who was a tax authority but was an employer of labour law turns out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u234	In a situation where two assessments are based on the same laws and case law, the same should also emerge. If the IRS says one thing, who else is gonna say another? I can imagine all kinds of complicated situations in this country, where a lot of people are interfering in labour law, but it is not the case that the legal basis already contains a difference in assessment. It really has to come to the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u235	I agree with the Secretary of State. However, a number of experts look at the model agreements through the employment law glasses and are inclined to see a number of aspects of a contract of employment, particularly in the area of the relationship of authority and the like. How is the Secretary of State gonna make sure this gray area isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u236	I wanted to come back to that a little later. It is not the case that legislation points in different directions. It simply means that one party has made an assessment that may or may not be entirely correct. We just need to make sure that the assessments are good. I'll get to that in a minute. We still have a professionalisation battle ahead of us. So I thought it was a very useful suggestion in Mrs Sent's contribution. I wanted to discuss two other things first... but I don't really have to. So I'm going to go into it a little bit more. If you accept that this should be the same, you may still ask yourself whether the assessment of the model agreement by the Tax Administration is correct. It is not about differences in legislation, but about the quality of the assessment. Let us note that this society is in the process of reinventing that. We see a huge professionalisation of all kinds of social parties involved in this process. Half an hour ago, I said in my speech that this also applies to the Tax Administration. We must therefore ask ourselves whether this is a good thing, but not just for that reason, for another reason as well. Walking around with this subject I encounter a lot of people who have somehow found a reason to doubt the assessment by the Tax Administration. Whether that's right or not, I don't know, but I'm being harassed with, "Watch out, that Tax Department of yours is way too strict. I do know that the cabinet has a hidden agenda; you just want everyone in the contract of employment." Just as often it happens to me that people say, "That Tax Administration of yours is fully celebrating. I do know what kind of hidden agenda the cabinet has here. You want to launder everyone's unauthorized counterfeit entrepreneurship." It is quite clear: if anyone in this room has the most benefit from testability and quality improvement, it is me. Otherwise, you'll never get out of here. In this area, a vulnerable attitude between me and the Tax Administration is about the only chance to gain confidence. Possibly both parties are right every now and then. When I see what's behind it, I myself think the IRS is also fucking right. I can think of all that, but let's make that whole process look critical. That would be a big profit. Now several questions have been asked. Among other things, Mr Köhler said: make everything public. That's his solution. Review has also been mentioned. Let me respond as generously as possible to this perfectly justified concern. I have already said that I am not doing this least because it is in my own interest. First of all, I wanted to make as much public as possible. I have been rather busy investigating whether there are opportunities to make everything public and therefore forced. It can't be. I do intend to urge the parties, in respect of all generic and all sectoral agreements, but also for business-specific agreements, that this should also be done on the site in anonymised form. In any case, it will be transparent. I can't promise that for everything. There were also many parties who, when we didn't ask them the question about the anonymized agreements yet, at least didn't feel like putting them on the site. They thought that they would then have the secrets of the chef on the site. However, I intend to insist as much as possible on public access. That's one. Furthermore, of course, we must continue to make a habit of letting UWV and where it is relevant also the department look at it. This is, for example, very relevant in the area of care. The department really has to look at that, because it's all VWS-specific legislation. If you don't do that neatly with the department, you're gonna skate off the track soon. UWV is also watching and cooperating. That agency may have a different background, but it has the same laws. I think Mrs Sent's proposal to organise some kind of consultation is very valuable. Philosophically, I think that even during the transition period, even before enforcement begins, we need to organise a serious review or consultation by an independent panel. They have to be people who don't work at the IRS. It may still change, but I can share the preliminary search profiles with the Chamber. I am thinking of a professor of labour law, a judge in the field of labour law, but as far as taxation is concerned, with a background in wage taxation. I am also thinking of someone who has just practical experience of enforcement in the workplace. That too is important. Otherwise, we'll sing away from how it works in a company. That way, with such a review, I wanted to do it. In doing so, I accept Mr Rinnooy Kan's desire to test, but I do not want to hear his suggestion that the judge should do so. It would be nice to look precisely for possibilities of review that is not always done by the judge in court, but with the commitment of a professional. Something will come out of that, but let us share this with the Chamber as transparently as possible. I also want to focus the review on things that aren't on the site. Then I cannot throw everything out in the review, but I can tell you what the report figure was given by the independent experts. I can also say what was not generally right. I will also ask what lessons we can incorporate into the review framework. If it leads to a bias in one direction or another, the review framework can be calibrated. All this should be completed in the fourth quarter of 2016. Then we have a fairly serious review and a fairly serious report figure. Depending on that, we can see if more is needed. Maybe it should be done again in some time. I think the bulk of example agreements will be there, so we should be an end. Let us look at what is going on, depending on that. So I feel very much for this review, also because it cannot be true that it is both too much and too little, too much plus and too much minus, too much red and too much black. We all benefit from taking this professionalism seriously. I would therefore like to see as much openness as possible, an independent review and as much transparency as possible towards the Chambers on the outcome. I have now reached the commitments, although there are still a few questions to be answered. I'm starting to hurry up. I have been asked a question about the Commissioner. Mrs Sent said that this is a fictitious employment. That's what we had the VAR for, but it's breaking up now. Now, suddenly, we have the situation where the Commissioner has to pay wages. Mrs Sent asked me what is actually the background to this fictitious employment. When this problem arose a few weeks ago, I asked myself the same question. Why would we have done this anyway? Two people have been looking very seriously into legal history, but they haven't found it. I could not say what the reason for this is, but perhaps that is the answer at the same time. If there is no reason for this, I mentioned the VAR earlier, but the Commissioner's fictitious relationship fits with it effortlessly if there is something that does not serve any purpose, why should we not abolish it? It seems to have existed since 1941. Nobody knows why. It's in Article 3 of the Wage Tax Act. We can take this with us in all kinds of tax plans and dispose of it by 1 January, but if you intend to amend it in the law, you can anticipate it by means of a policy decision. We could simply get this out of the way, and that is exactly what I am proposing. Here's to it. I have been asked whether there is enough time. We've already seen it's a heavy dish. We've wasted a lot of time communicating. This treatment takes place just a week later than originally planned. I say to Mr Van Rij: there are not three, but five general agreements on the site, but since six were promised, one more has to go. That's right. There's no problem with it, but that agreement just hasn't come to an end. I can therefore imagine that 1 April as the date of entry into force... Let me take a look at Mr Van Rij. He would have put it off for a very long time, but a number of organizations with which I work do not need such a long delay. They see less in a late entry into force and more in a broad transition. I'm playing with the idea of just postponing the entry into force for a month. After 1 May the habit begins, but not yet the enforcement in that sense. The transition path should make you taller. I get letters fromzzp organizations that say: we all support it, but give us a slightly longer transition period. That VAR has been around for ten years, so I don't mind those three months. The organizations want a year. This would mean giving you a year after the entry into force of the law to take up professionalisation and to communicate much more. I have here a whole list of the communication that has already been there, but it seems to remain drops on a record. There are still a number of issues to whichzzp organisations and client organisations point. We still have to do that panel and that assessment. After that, you might have to change things and take a reasonable time. That's what we've been asked to do. Then I come to a limited delay of entry into force and all in all a longer transition. That would be grossly my proposal. I balance a bit between people who say " hurry up" and people who say "give it some time."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u237	Do I understand correctly that the preparatory phase will then run until 1 May next, assuming that we will vote on this proposal on 2 February? Do I also understand that the implementation phase will then run? Does it run until May 1st next year? Is the implementation phase used, inter alia, by the Secretary of State, to work out the commitments he has made here in terms of communication, the panel, the further development of sector-specific agreements, including with professional departments? Is all this going to happen during that period in good consultation with the interest groups and the market players, so that this professionalisation can be intensified further? Am I supposed to imagine it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u238	Yes. In particular, it is the organisations that cooperate with us, thezzp organisations and the employers' organisations, who have asked not so much to delay the entry into force of the law as to take a year for implementation. I got that wish from all sides, no doubt at all, but yes, there is nothing against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u239	No, but then I have the deadlines of the transition plan clear. I'd like to put the points on the i. It means that the VAR will be over by 1 May next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u240	Yes, and that we move on to the new system, albeit in the first year mainly instructive and with implementation and professionalization. Then enforcement begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u241	Finally, Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u242	During the transition period, enforcement policies will be cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u243	Resistant, except for the really acidic cases. They're gonna get company soon. Mr Köhler asked me whether azzp'er could also present a construction. Yeah, there's that equality of law, of course. It would be great if only a client could submit something and not a contractor. There is equality of law for the two parties in the chain. This means that anyone can avail themselves of this service by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u244	That is what the Secretary of State has already said in replying to our questions. Moreover, it is already practice under the current law that, if this were to happen, people would be given that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u245	But you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u246	Yes, I asked because on the website of the IRS it says something about what you can submit to the service. It says: "Also contractors can submit an agreement. This only makes sense if the contractor can use this agreement with all its clients, including future ones." This concerns the case in which a contractor himself wants to work with a standard contract, but of course that was not my question. My question concerns the case in which an independent client is presented with an agreement, possibly accompanied by a statement that it is all in order according to the Tax Administration. He can't know that, because there are secret agreements that the IRS said were in order. Can that self-employed person go to the Tax Office and ask if that's true, if that agreement is in line with the law? I want to give that right to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u247	Yes. I just promised. On the website of the IRS, it says that someone believes that this only makes sense if... someone can find that, but I'm now saying that that can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u248	Okay. Then I await the improvement on the site reassured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u249	Mr Köhler's second question was to think about zero measurement. We now have 2% to 14%. A zero reading? That's a zero reading of nothing. It's a piece of shit. It is, of course, non-benchmarkable. That measurement is not a basis for an accurate comparison between now and the future. I can assure you that I can already record that I am considering whether, in the formal evaluation after three years, we can somehow make an attempt to re-assess the proportion of bogus self-employment. This is more suitable for independent judgment than for comparison. A comparison is never very precise. I understand Mr Köhler's desire to know whether we can be socially satisfied with what lies ahead. However, it is not suitable for benchmarking. Mr Köhler has asked me whether the Tax Administration can assess agreements on which, for example, agreements have already been made in collective agreements. It's gonna take a little study, too. I understand from him that I have answered a question about this rather evasively. I'm gonna try not to right now. The preliminary consultation with the Tax Administration for all tax means, advance security, is governed by a decision. How to do that, it's all fixed. That decision states that no situations that are contrary to laws and regulations can be approved. According to the case law, there are also cases which have been declared generally binding in collective agreements. So the answer to his question is that the Tax Administration is not allowed to do so. Mr Ester has asked me how the intervention model in the broadcasting sector is being handled. I think the intervention model is just on the site. The mediation model is still under way. There's no problem with it or anything, but it's just still being worked on. It has been tried to comprehend that in the agreements that are on the site. Mr Van Strien has asked me whether this is actually a deregulation. It was also the D of D66 that would have lost its shine, according to another speaker. Yeah, I think so. We now have half a million VARs that we pump around every year and we will soon have a limited number of example agreements. We're gonna have to get over a bump right now, so we're gonna be sweet for a year. After that, it saves half a million legal decisions. Actal is actually charging for a reduction in the administrative burden. It is also not quite something if you take out half a million decisions and replace them with a very limited number of example agreements that just fit the site. So I see this as a relief and a deregulation. There's a legal document disappearing. I think I'm through with the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u250	After the comparison with the D of D66, I think this is an acceptable answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u251	That was a bit of a slip. I meant that D66 himself said that the D had lost its shine, but good. No party here has lost its luster for me, I declare here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u252	I understand you're ready, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u253	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u254	Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u255	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his detailed reply. In any case, he has addressed all points in detail and has also been very transparent. I think he has given clear wine, at least on the points we had asked for. I'm just passing the points. Nut and necessity, or as the Secretary of State said "why." I think he put that here convincingly. The safeguard such as the law that now exists for the client I myself called a privilege in my first term is actually unprecedented in tax law and hinders the Tax Administration to do what it has to do, namely to maintain it. An exception concerns the cases of bad faith. He has said that it has never worked in the last ten years. I found him somewhat less convincing in his explanation of the implementation of the policy in this area, but I would also like to be mild about that. The Secretary of State has also spoken about false self-employment and shown that there is a great misconception. Manyzzp'ers who have such a VAR think they have certainty. They do not, of course, have them, in the sense that they always have to fill in their own income tax bill and that they are then properly checked whether or not they are entrepreneurs. On that point, too, I think he has been quite persuasive. I found him less convincing in his explanation of why he could not work with a lighter degree of burden of proof under the current law. There it all got a bit difficult in the answer. Anyway, on the other hand, he doesn't want to go that way. Nor is that the proposal as it stands. The assessment we now have to make is whether the proposal as it stands today, where enforcement is concerned in the future, is going to improve on the situation as it is today. There he has made a number of important commitments as far as the CDA Group is concerned and has also created clarity. I think that is very important for all those hundreds of thousands ofzzp'ers and also for the clients. I'm trying to summarize it in bullet-by-bullet form and a little staccato. He said he was aiming for a situation of appropriate and normal enforcement. This means that we do not have to feed fear stories and that the Tax Administration is essentially doing what it is doing. I have already made the comparison in the event of interruption if a wage tax check is carried out. We can do that on a random basis. That's the authority. That's not a book search. Then the FIOD won't be at the door. It's just a regular check-up that can take place every now and then. This can also be done in the future when checking the contract contracts, i.e. the situation between a client and a contractor. He said very important that he would publish the manual/handler's assessment of employment relations. That is a very important commitment, because that is how we know the guidelines for wage taxation. This is something to which taxpayers, and in this case especially clients, can derive the necessary security. This also fits in with the generic enforcement policy described by the Secretary of State. I understand, of course, that he is not going to put all the cards on the table with regard to individual situations of enforcement or certain sectors, but my question was not intended to do so either. I also assume that the Secretary of State will use the transition period to review with the interest groups what he has promised here in relation to enforcement policy. He wants to take his time, too. That was one of our questions, too. We asked for a slightly longer period, 1 May instead of 1 July. That seems reasonable to me, because I am particularly concerned that the preparatory period 1 May will end and that it will take a year for the implementation phase. The panel of independent experts, I have just lost the name, and I also see it as a commitment on our part, because I had specifically asked him if he could do something with the criticism that the model and sector example agreement clearly contains provisions, as Mrs Sent also said, which are not entirely congruent in civil law. Then it is very sensible and testifies that you also submit the homework done by the Tax Administration to an independent panel, not to give a negative report figure, but to eventually get something that works even better in practice. All things considered, this was a very enlightening debate for the CDA Group. On all the points we have raised, there has been either clarity or a commitment. I would like to take this back to the group. I believe that I am the only member of this group at the moment, but I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u256	Mr Van Rooijen, is it true that you do not want a second term? Then we'll go to Mr. Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u257	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by sincerely thanking the Secretary of State for his commitment to the discussion we have just had, in which we have not always agreed, but in which there is no doubt whatsoever about his willingness to participate in a complex and important debate, with apologies for the many times I have interrupted him. I did this for a reason, because as far as I am concerned, it is indeed an essential point that we have discussed here this evening. This discussion has also been held at a very high level by the other participants. In the end, this discussion deals with the question of what is useful and what is necessary. So what is the feeling this way after the discussion we have had? In previous discussions, I have briefly summarized my concerns about this proposal with three adjectives, namely risky, premature and unnecessary. To some extent, these concerns have not disappeared. We have talked about 'risky'. As far as I am concerned, 'uncertainty' is a very important word in this debate. The Secretary of State regretted this, but at least we have seen it together. I am also not reassured that it will easily disappear, because in my opinion this uncertainty has to do with the tensions that have been built into the complex relationship in this area, which is maintained by the different legal perspectives, from fiscal to labour law, including the Civil Code and here and there a bit of competition law, if that is the case. The fact that some of this is recognized elsewhere in this Chamber was also apparent when the possibility of scrutiny and the provisions to be made for it was discussed. In all honesty, the word 'testingscircus' came to my mind when I tried to imagine how that all would go. Complicated, it will be certain, and that also reflects the essential task we are facing. Then I'm already moving in the direction of my second concern. At least at the moment, risky becomes the situation that will arise after the introduction of the DBA and which is certainly experienced by many. I do not see these concerns disappear one-two-three by many completely bona fide clients, with consequences that I probably still regret. Premature refers, in fact, to the debate we have had on the question of whether at least the fundamental review of the labour market is of much more fundamental importance than what we are talking about here and what we are investing time and energy in. That feeling still hasn't left me. It is not so much a question of whether this fundamental discussion should be conducted but of whether we can afford this intermediate step. We can afford this intermediate step if we are, in any case, fundamentally convinced that the underlying principle is sensible. It may then be desirable to have a somewhat longer run and to be able to provide some more pre-work and more information, but the question is whether this au fond is a good idea which is indeed qualified as a 'no-regret option' for good reason and reason. I am still not convinced of this either, because this new labour market, however it may look, will in any case require a different form of enforcement than the present one. I'm really convinced of that. The advance that we are about to take and which contains so much energy will indeed be an advance where we may regret most of all. That is not the end of my last concern. The word 'unnecessary' referred to the discussion we had on whether current enforcement could not be improved. I am trying to sum it up briefly, but in the end we have talked about ways in which the Tax Administration can be better equipped than it is now to act more successfully in those situations where this is desirable. Again, I am not convinced by the Secretary of State that this would in principle be impossible and therefore perhaps not better. If we look at the population we're talking about here, thezzp'er, there are actually two categories of problem. On the one hand, we see the successful self-employed self-employed who may also occasionally, sporadically or perhaps more often than desired, in his behaviour and his employment relationship starts to resemble an employee. From the point of view I am now addressing, I fear that this category will at least have reason to be nervous about what the DBA regime is going to do to them. On the other hand, we can see the category of self-employed people currently active at the bottom of the labour market, who will be deprived of the protection offered by fictitious employment, as a result of the DBA, and who will eventually be able to end up in a self-employed environment which, for them, is a decline rather than a progress. That too is a situation that we should not be excited about. All this uncertainty has to do with what I was talking about, the situation that has grown in our labour law, its complexity and its unadaptability in today's labour market, let alone tomorrow's. This ultimately gives a picture of a law, which you can hardly be very enthusiastic about, many of whom I talked to about it in recent weeks could at best say something about in the category "it can't hurt" or "it might still be worth something" or "maybe we should give it some more time." My standard, my test remains mainly the question of whether this is a good idea in principle and whether we can actually afford that complicated route. I fear that I am unabated by the concern that this approach will lead to risks from the outset, particularly towards those who depend on a stable and predictable environment for their economic future. Those are risks that we shouldn't want to take. For this reason, Mr President, I would like to present this motion to you in order to be put to the vote the following week when we meet again. The President shall: Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Prast, Mr Ester and Mr Backer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the legislative proposal is based on a partial problem analysis, lacking an integral government vision of the desirable design of the labour market of the future;]] [[Whereas it has not been made sufficiently plausible that the alternative to the proposed abolition of the VAR declaration will represent a substantial improvement in the effective fight against false self-employment;]] [[whereas, on the other hand, negative effects can be expected for bona fide self-employed workers in the market;]] [[Whereas it does not exclude loss of income and/or work.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[calls on the Government to hold the bill until it can be assumed that these concerns have been adequately removed and then reopened in consultation with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34036-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u258	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the very comprehensive and very thorough presentation he has given on his assessment of how it is going to work in the coming period under the workings of the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Labour Relations. My group wants to make a very sharp distinction between enforcement and labour law. As far as enforcement is concerned, our particular question was to find out how the Tax Administration can maintain it, while for thezzp'er there is still a future, because we cherish thezzp'er. I am not going to repeat what Mr Van Rij has proposed this evening, but it is about the framework within which this enforcement is going to take place, namely within an order that I recognise from the past: monitoring the workplace in the context of wage taxation control, formulating an enforcement strategy and, at the request of Mr Van Rij, with which the Secretary of State agrees, extending the deadline for introduction, thus allowing for a proper adjustment. The other issue is labour law. On this subject, we have heard today from many groups that there is a need for rethinking. I would just like to put it in black and white that I have the feeling that a transition from the Rhineland-Palatinate model is a large family of people to the Anglo-Saxon model of a more individual interpretation of your work. Unfortunately, we have had to see that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment was not present at that very important point that the whole debate has discussed today. Minister Asscher was invisible in that debate, yet it is an important subject for which we have asked for attention in the first place. We did not focus exclusively on this, but we wanted to say very clearly that labour law is in need of adaptation, because the traditional division between employer and employee no longer exists. I shall return to my group with the wise words spoken by Secretary of State Wiebes about all the work he proposes to do if the bill is accepted next week. I thought it was a very sensible debate, for which I particularly thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u259	Mr. Chairman. It was an extraordinary pleasure for me to have such an interesting and valuable debate outside my usual portfolio. Thank you to my colleagues, but also to the Secretary of State. Much appreciation for the answers and for his flowery rhetoric, which made the debate extremely pleasant. He began his first term by saying that the bill was more boring than hoped, but more useful than feared. I can only conclude that his answers were less boring than you sometimes fear on the subject, but sometimes less useful than you would hope. The intention of the whole is widely shared when it comes to the need for enforcement and the fight against bogus self-employment. I have heard very few opponents of the present system on the issue of discontent. But that does not mean that there are no questions left and that we can have reached a final balance. At least that applies to my group. There are questions that remain about the broad labour market debate, which I believe should be conducted and on which Mr Van de Ven took an advance by saying that we should go from Rhineland to Anglo-Saxon. I don't know if that's what we're gonna do. However, it is important to consider carefully what the desired and undesirable consequences would be. But we need to have that conversation. That must be done precisely, also in order to be able to properly place the implications of all kinds of steps like this. We also have questions about the behavioral effects of clients and contractors. What exactly is going to happen? Have we given sufficient critical thought to the potentially unwanted but not necessarily unforeseen behavioural effects? Risks at the bottom are also considered differently, and the same applies to macroeconomic labour market effects. Furthermore, I am thinking of the potential risks of model agreements and the question that has not yet been fully answered for us, namely whether enforcement could not have been improved in any other way. Are these remaining points and the answers given decisive, or do the critical questions remain decisive? I promise the Secretary of State we'll sleep on it seven nights. Because, to end with one of his many flowery statements: closing the roof hatch during a storm is one thing, but if it opens other shutters in the same storm, it doesn't make any progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u260	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State and his colleagues for answering my group's questions. These answers to parts were enlightening, but they could not take away our criticism of the bill. My group is still not convinced of the proportionality of the legislative proposal. We do not experience a sense of urgency. The SEOR report, on which the Secretary of State always bases itself, states: "The work on a structural basis in a dummy structure occurs only occasionally in our research population." The haste that surrounds the bill is causing great unrest in the world ofzzp, and there is no immediate budgetary interest at stake to justify this haste. My group, too, strongly opposes the annoying phenomenon of false self-employment. Not a single misunderstand about that. But we do not believe that saying goodbye to the VAR and making model agreements will structurally eliminate this phenomenon. We believe that the better enforcement of the VAR, especially in sectors where there is suspicion of false self-employment, would have been the better option. We also remain afraid of the shudder of employers to hire self-employed people. In fact, we fear loss of assignments forzzp'ers. We particularly call for attention to be paid to the position of vulnerable groups. We fear for their portfolio, and we already see vulnerable groups ofzzp'ers being housed in payroll companies. The Secretary of State has discussed this house extensively about the transition period. My group wonders whether the results will still be shared separately with this Chamber. Will it include possible behavioural effects, such as pulling away movements of self-employed employers when it comes to hiringzzp'ers, and possible negative income effects of the new scheme forzzp'ers? My group is particularly disturbed by the fact that the cabinet does not have a substantive and comprehensive view of the position of thezzp'er, and that while over the last few years there has been a silent revolution I called it in the first period of time in the Dutch labour market. Thezzp'er is here to stay. The numbers we are talking about imply that the cabinet should really have a firm vision of the position of thezzp'er on the Dutch labour market, including in fiscal terms. That vision is not ahead of us now. Taxation must follow vision and not vice versa. This vision includes the broader tax treatment of thezzp'er, the differences between employees andzzp'ers, the self-employed deduction, the sickness law, the pension provision and the position of vulnerable groups ofzzp'ers. Those are all tricky points that scream for vision. There's no way around that. That is not a chat, as the Secretary of State called it, but it really is a fundamental vision of the Dutch labour market. I agree with Mr Van de Ven that perhaps we should focus on this issue with Minister Asscher, who is the first person responsible for this issue. We missed that need today. The reform of the tax system was not allowed to be. That fate now seems to have affected the zzp file as well. We wholeheartedly support Mr Rinnooy Kan's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u261	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Secretary of State for his patient and enlightening answer to our questions. The PvdA has very strong objections to the VAR-systematiek. For contractors the VAR offers false security, for clients the VAR offers security through the warranty and for the Tax Administration the VAR does not allow enforcement through the client, as the legal experience teaches. My group considers the expiry of the virtually unbiased safeguard combined with the possibility of securing by means of model agreements to be a very important step in the right direction. However, in order to prevent the government from failing, I brought to the attention of the Secretary of State a number of pitfalls in the first term. I'll check this one out. Our first concern was the unwelcomeness of the situation in which a person working under a model contract is regarded as self-employed in the tax sense, while the civil court considers that there is a contract of employment. I would like to highlight the State Secretary's commitment that serious scrutiny will be carried out by an independent committee prior to the start of enforcement. We agree with the composition of this committee outlined by the Secretary of State. We are pleased that lessons are being drawn for the review framework and that the results of this process will be shared with the Chambers. We welcome the commitment to Mr Van Rij that more time will be taken for this transition to complete the professionalisation battle. Our second concern was the unwelcomeness of the situation in which the division of liability, as laid down in a model agreement, is at odds with the development of labour law in order to strengthen the responsibilities of job providers for healthy and safe working conditions. We welcome and would like to highlight the Secretary of State's commitment that where these provisions are not necessary, they are not relevant and are currently yellow-shaped, which will be removed. Our third concern was the fact that the fictitious relationship of Commissioners does not seem to have any clear added value and is at odds with the expected independence from a governance perspective. On this point, we would like to highlight the Secretary of State's commitment that he will make an effort to remove the fictitious employment of Commissioners and monitor their consequences. Our fourth and final concern was the distortion in the taxation of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed, combined with the desire for affordable disability insurance and the desire to make pension schemes available to all workers. On this point, I agree with the Secretary of State's assessment that everyone seems to agree on the problem, but that a mutually behaving solution does not come immediately. We agree with the cabinet that a broad political and social debate is needed, but we do expect it to be conducted with considerable urgency and that the cabinet should work to that end. Can the Secretary of State provide further clarification on this point? With the commitments of the Secretary of State as I have highlighted on the aspects of the present bill on which the First Chamber assesses legislation, namely legality, feasibility and enforcement, I feel supported in advising my group to vote for the legislative proposal Law on deregulation assessment of employment relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u262	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I am a little disappointed that Mr Van Rooijen is not speaking in the second term. During the first period, he devoted his speaking time to a different subject than is on the agenda because he felt it was more important. He also had a lot of good arguments for finding that more important. Following an interruption, he said he would return to this bill in the second term. He is not doing so now, which means that until the vote next week we are not sure what his group thinks of the proposal we are debating. I regret that. I thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answer. The danger of a comprehensive answer is, of course, that it raises many new questions. For example, the Secretary of State said that the Tax Administration also controls on the spot, from greenhouses to brothels, after which he immediately said that it is not about the caricature hammer. These two comments led me to a dozen new questions alone, but for the sake of time I will not put them all in public in this debate. My questions about the implementation of the new law by the Tax Administration have been answered satisfactorily by the Secretary of State, except the most important. On the subject of public access to all approved agreements, where we are particularly concerned that when new constructions are found by clients whose tax authorities have to observe that they may still fall under the law, after which they will be accepted, we believe that these new constructions should be made public. Otherwise, all these beautiful model agreements will not make sense, because the evildoers will go down that road. The abuses remain more alive than under a new name than should be necessary. The Secretary of State has said nothing more than that he does urge people to disclose all the agreements submitted, if necessary anonymously, but that he cannot oblige them to do so. We already knew that. He has answered that before, and that does not help us. It is precisely the clients with, in our view, perhaps less good intentions that will leave no room for such a call. It is precisely those structures that are approved by the Tax Administration, perhaps against their will, because it falls within the law that should be made public. The Secretary of State is actually up to my challenge to come up with some creativity in order to do it anyway. I therefore make only a few suggestions myself and expect him to give me a concrete undertaking in the second term so that I can advise my group to vote in favour of this law. The first is that the agreements are not only anonymized, but also stripped of all business-specific matters so that only the construction remains, the core of the agreement. That's my preference. It may be that the Secretary of State will immediately reply that this is not allowed either, because we will actually make that agreement public and the law will not allow it. If the Secretary of State intends to answer that, I do not agree with him, moreover, I make another suggestion. The Tax Administration can also see for itself whether there is a new type of contract in the many contracts offered, which it may not publish for the applicant, but approves. A whole new construction is what I call it, just to stay inside the law. The Tax Administration can then make that construction public itself, in the form of a model contract not recommended but possible. That would be the least we can do to meet our urgent desire on this point. Finally, I agree with those who say that much more should actually be done in the fight against false self-employment and that we should discuss it. I also agree with those who say that we may want to talk about this with all of us, but this certainly does not mean that we agree on it. Depending on the discussions that are still going on for years, we cannot object to improvements being made in this area of enforcement of the existing law. The Secretary of State has complained a bit about the difficult position he has in the cabinet within this ongoing discussion. He was very open about that. I appreciate that, because in itself he should not be allowed to clap out of the school about how difficult things are in this cabinet. He doesn't have to do that either, because each of us can very well imagine that everything is going to be very difficult in this cabinet. Nevertheless, I wish him every success in his efforts to break the deadlock in the cabinet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u263	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering my questions and for his comprehensive explanation. The present legislative proposal is likely to bring about what it is intended to achieve: to allow the Tax Administration to control not only the contractor but also the client. The Secretary of State has made it plausible, through guarantees and commitments, that this bill will be implemented in a careful manner. I will propose to my group that the limited objective of this law be given the benefit of the doubt. In our opinion, this should mean that the well-meaning clients and contractors will no longer suffer from a small group of evildoers. However, a much wider debate on the position of thezzp'er in the labour market needs to be held, for example on the basis of the ibo report. We regret that this debate within this cabinet is not possible. The coalition parties VVD and PvdA seem to be opposed to each other on this point. We will have to wait for this debate. I can therefore leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u264	Mr. Chairman. I found it very difficult to determine the benefits and risks on this subject. I am very impressed by the way in which the Secretary of State defended the bill. In any case, he has convinced me that this new system is becoming more and more manageable and virtually nil under the VAR system. I am inclined to assume that with these agreements it is indeed possible to avoid the need for whole bundles of agreements, which mean that we are stuck in a bureaucratic package of paper, although in certain cases I cannot fully imagine the actual course of events. I am pleased that additional measures are being taken to check the agreements for their final sustainability. The main problem after entry into force will end up with those who have worked bona fide with their VAR so far and cannot comply with an agreed agreement. I fear that a large proportion of those will eventually be the people who have never chosen to exist as self-employed and who have not become rich from it either. They will have to wait and see what conditions they will find themselves in if this is not possible anymore. I'm seriously afraid they won't get any better. However, this is ultimately the intended and desired outcome of this legislative proposal, namely that action should be taken against bogus self-employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u265	I see the Secretary of State can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u266	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van Rij for his encouraging words. I'll wait and see. I have also taken note of Mr Rinnooy Kan's three adjectives. I honestly admit that in the run-up to this route I had coffee with him once and then it was four adjectives. He then talked about risky, premature, unnecessary and ineffective. I'm glad I could at least keep him from the latter. With all due respect to the intentions behind it, I must discourage his motion. I'm reporting that I share his reform desires. I thank Mr Van de Ven for his support. All I can say to Mr Ganzevoort is good night and then seven times. I'm always willing to explain things. If there's a need, he'll let me know. I am disappointed that I have not been able to convince Mr Ester. He's a goddamn man who turned the labour market into his profession. When I read things from him, I regularly think that we could have a wonderful debate on this because it is such a sensible language. Still, I can't convince him. I kind of blame myself for that. I have not been able to convince him, among other things, that the reversal of something disproportionate is always proportional. I regret that, because that is what I would have liked to have achieved. Mrs Sent supports the ideas, but also asks for clarity about the broad debate. I do not know exactly, because that lies with my colleagues. I believe that this is another letter from Mr Asscher. I would have liked to have reported what kind of letter it will be and when it will come, but I must remain guilty of the answer. We could have suspended and then I would have known, but now the rush has won the fullness. I would also like to take Mr Köhler with me, because the intentions he has displayed in the first period are in line with what I intend to do with the proposal. I have already told him that we are testing the similarities as much as possible. I have reminded him that there will be a review at the end of the implementation period. At that point, we can assume that the most imaginable specific agreements of companies are pretty much in place, so that we can also test them and possibly say that something is not satisfactory or that something is satisfactory. That's not enough for him anyway. I promised him I'd try to do as much public as possible. I take his construction on board that we will get more done as it is further anonymized and stripped of all non-fiscal information. I'm doing the best I can for that. I find his last idea creative. The people who have to work with this have watched this very quickly. I would like to make the following commitment to Mr Köhler in case a new construction actually appears. That really has to be a new insight and not a question of shifting existing buttons or something that comes out somewhere in the middle of other things. There must be something that we can say is a new construction. That will then be someone who tries in a different way than the others to get out of permanent employment, or wants to gain benefits in other ways. I admit that I will put those cases anonymised and stripped of tax information, so cleaned, on the site and make it public. I'll walk a little along the edge with that, but I'll make sure it all works out. I'll be honest with you, this will help me. The credibility of the Tax Administration is one of the things that has played a role in this debate. I benefit from the highest possible credibility of the Tax Administration. The testability makes people see what's going wrong. However, I believe that the credibility of the Tax Administration will benefit from this in the long term. Yes, one can see that sometimes the Tax Administration is doing something wrong, but one can also see that it is working to correct that. One can then see that it is being repaired. That way the quality is getting higher and higher. I am already in favour of quality, but everyone in this Chamber and I myself also benefit from doing so as testable and vulnerable as possible, to be open about what goes wrong and then fix it. So I make this commitment about the new constructions. Moreover, the review panel also looks at these cases. I'll report on that, too. Mr Ester asked for this too. I'd like to share the results of that panel with the Chamber. If we're gonna take the behavioral effects with us, we're gonna have to take a look. As far as the concern is concerned, I have said that we are going to look as soon as possible at whether things are happening there that we do not expect or want, but that we are going to see happen. So to what extent that is possible, I have yet to see. In any case, the panel gives its report figure, and I'm sending it to the Chamber. Then we can all see what that report figure is and we can make sure we get an even higher figure. In response to Mr Köhler, I also note that I have not said at all that anything is difficult in the cabinet. I have been so cruel, truthfully, to say that it is not self-evident that it should be accepted, including the opposition. I think this is true. Mr Van Strien is of the opinion that well-meaning clients should not be affected by this. I take note of his views on the ibo. I also believe that Mr Ten Hoeve has not yet asked a specific follow-up question in his reflections. I thank him for his words. This brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-26-eerstekamer-7.u267	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. We will vote next Tuesday on the bill and the motion.
