ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Keijzer, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. The handling of this bill has gotten a bit of the character of a relay. We are now debating this proposal for the third time in plenary, this time for the second term on the part of the Chamber. Let us hope that the matter will be brought to an end today, save perhaps the votes. First of all, I would like to thank the authors for their detailed response in their first term, which has clarified a great deal with regard to the CDA Group. Thank you also to the Minister for his first-term reply. In my second term, I would like to address three aspects. First of all, this is the freedom of contract, which this law, in conjunction with the ILO conventions, is going to offer workers and employers. The ILO Convention No 198 prohibits unilateral government intervention in the establishment of working conditions, if I understand correctly. Is this also restricting the possibility of legislative intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u3	I have a brief comment for the Acts. ILO Convention 198 does not exist. This is ILO Convention 98. I think it is important for the Acts to establish that, because that did not go well in the previous period either, and I think it is important that we try to be precise about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u4	If that is the case, then the Acts of the last time should also be corrected, because they referred to ILO Convention No 198. In any case, the question was whether that treaty would also limit the possibility of intervention through legislation. To what extent is that going to impose restrictions on the government? I would like the Minister and the proposers to go into that again. I also wonder whether, in this context, there will be a distinction between the sectors in which the government is a legislator and an employer and other public sectors such as municipalities or provinces. Will the legislator be able to intervene in the establishment of working conditions for provinces or municipalities? I would also like to hear the views of the proposers, and if he did not agree with them, also from the Minister. Secondly, I cannot resist the temptation to respond to a few remarks made by Mrs Barth, who, in the event of interruption, placed her in the first term on the part of the authors. Sometimes I thought her second term had already begun, but her passion on this subject at least gives us the opportunity to discuss it now. Mrs Barth pointed out in those interruptions that she regretted that the applicants had not had an agreement-oriented consultation with the unions. Now I have to say, first of all, that the unions have not shown much interest in such consultation with the proposers either. In fact, they only wanted to talk to the Minister, and so, when it comes to legislation in their area, they seem to deny the parliamentary right of initiative. That cannot, of course, be the case as far as we are concerned. Moreover, the unions are threatening the courts, which does not really indicate a spirit of consensus. Surely it cannot be the intention that the unions should be given a priority position in legislative processes such as this, in which they will be given a kind of right of veto by means of agreement-oriented consultation. My group therefore supports the views of the proposers on this point. The least you can say is that the unions have not properly assessed their position in this matter and do not seem to be able to handle initiative legislation in their area. I would also point out that in this house we often confront groups, sometimes smaller, sometimes larger, very much against their wishes, with very far-reaching legislation for them. The view of such a group is always a factor in our consideration, but there is no agreement-oriented consultation, nor does it lead to a right of veto. In any case, we can see that the parties are not in agreement on the proposal and on the way things have been done so far. That may be so, but it does not alter the fact that we have to go back to work. I will ask the Minister a question about this in a moment, because we are curious to see how he intends to shape this further. This brings me to the third aspect of my second term. We have asked the Minister in the first term two cases that he has not yet responded to. With this law, the government as an employer is going to look a little bit more like the market sector, and my group has no objection to that. But what is the government's view on this in a broader sense? Is the market sector being introduced to the government in more areas? I think I see some slow developments there. On one level, as with this law, we do, not on the other. Out- and insourcing or slimming and abdominals are side by side. On one point, we don't want Zbos, on the other we want to set them up. I'm thinking about the discussion about ProRail. This is perhaps more a matter for Mr Plasterk's colleague, Minister Blok, but, as I said in the first term, given the unity of government policy, this Minister might want to say something about it. We have also asked what the process of introducing this law will be like and when the proposal has actually been implemented. I have not yet had an answer to that either, and I hope that the Minister will give it in his second term. Would he also like to outline how he hopes to get the unions involved in this development? Is he hoping and expecting to get the unions back to the table? We await the Minister's answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is a good habit in this house to give congratulations and flowers right after a maiden speech and not only after the end of the debate. I like that, otherwise the flowers would have worn off, because my maiden speech was more than a year ago at the first term of the examination of this bill. Of course, I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their first reply. That it took a while, fits in with the tradition of this bill, let's just say, and it might also say something about its urgency. Time has not quite had a healing effect on this subject. I'm gonna walk by a few points. First of all, the arbitrariness in the groups that are or are not covered by this law. Not military, but the AIVD; not police, but the security guards; not the Public Prosecutor's Office, but the Council of State. The explanatory statement is still unsatisfactory. Mrs Keijzer indicated that she would pass the criteria selected. However, it fell short of one criterion, namely that within an organisation only one legal system should apply. That was the reason not to normalize the DOD. She then explained that the police were excluded, not because the applicants saw reason for it, but to have some parties in the Lower House vote in favour of the initiative proposal. That's not strong, but it's nice for the police, let's just say. The question is whether there are, in addition to this one criterion, other criteria which lead to the distinction between the comparable groups. I have another question about the position of civil servants. For various positions, I just mention the clerks and top officials in ministries, an appointment is a strong point in order to be able to operate independently. The strength of their appointment is that they are not employees in the sense of the law, but advisor, counselor, creator of democracy. The applicants have identified different conditions for good functioning, such as general interest, service, good civil service, and these are indeed important conditions, especially in the light of the fact that there is a restriction on fundamental rights for civil servants. Think of the right to demonstration, the right to assembly and freedom of expression. And certainly, there are elements that can also lead to agreements or limitations in a normal employment relationship. That is not the point, however. The point is that, legally speaking, officials have fewer rights. That's different from house rules or business agreements. In the case of civil servants, the restrictions are regulated by law. They therefore have fewer rights, and in order to compensate for this, the government must assume more obligations. Do the applicants want to reflect on the difference between these business arrangements and legal restrictions? How does the Minister view this difference? Do the proposers and the Minister agree with my group that, for example, political relations within a municipality can lead to a weaker position of an official with a two-sided contract of employment? In reply to my question on the position of conscientious objectors, I should just like to say a few words about this in Mr Van Weyenberg's statement that an important reason for the lengthy process was that the situation around those conscientious objectors had to be settled first. I do not want to repeat the debate on conscientious objectors, but I would like to put the following question to you. Is it true that, following normalization of the legal status of civil servants, the normal rule in the Civil Code Book 7 is to apply Article 681, which states that termination of the contract of employment by the employer may, among other things, be considered manifestly unreasonable when it occurs because of the mere fact that the worker refuses to carry out the stipulated work by means of a serious objection to conscience? I would also like to hear the Minister's view on this point. The applicants have increasingly focused on the right of dismissal. In my first term, I argued that the balance sheet was lost because of an increase in the number of dismissals of a incumbent official, namely the super-statutory regime, the longer WW, the higher WW plus the transition fee. Mr Van Weyenberg felt that this would not be the case with an appeal to Book 7 of the Civil Code, Article 673. He said he'd come back to this in the second term. However, I have also done my homework on this point and come to the conclusion that this article does not solve the problem of avoiding double payments in the event of dismissal. After all, the Work and Security Act, which regulates this transition fee, includes a transitional article aimed at preventing temporarily double payments for employers who, under a collective agreement for example, have to pay or offer compensation or provision to an employee at the end of the contract of employment. These are provisions also referred to in Article 673 (b), such as a super-statutory allowance or a waiting fee scheme. The explanatory note to the Work and Security Act states that, when the employment contract ends on or after 1 July 2016.. and that is now............................................................................................................................................................................... The Work and Security Act makes it clear that Article 673 (b) cannot possibly mean that the mere fact that a super-legal benefit is included in a collective agreement is sufficient not to grant the transition fee. If that explanation were correct, the whole of the transitional right would no longer be necessary, even superfluous. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with the SGP Group that Article 673 is indeed not a solace? Is it now clear to the Minister what this means for the cost? Is this even higher than the €53 million to €186 million estimated to implement this bill? A salient detail: a solution to this problem requires agreement with the trade unions. Those are the same trade unions that have recently threatened an interim injunction if the legislative proposal for standardisation of the legal status of civil servants is adopted without prior agreement with them. How does the Minister assess the fact that the applicants themselves had no consultation with the trade unions, not even in the Public Personnel Policy Council? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is also looking forward to the reaction of the proposers and the Minister in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. Mr Flierman had the beautiful picture of the relay to which this bill is subject. My group had a bit of an image of a hink-step-jumping course that we are taking. As far as my group is concerned, it will have to be established after today whether or not the jump takes place inside or outside the prison and whether or not it remains valid. It has taken us a while, about six years and a handful of initiators, but my group has the impression that we finally reached the heart of the debate in this Chamber on 25 September 2016. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for their detailed and structured answers to the first-term questions. This careful response has certainly contributed to the clarity needed to reach the essence of the law and to a final judgment. In the first term of the Chamber, my group raised the question as to whether the civil service in the sense of public service works and directly controlled by a political administration brings with it sufficient individuality for a specific legal position and whether it should be terminated. From the nature of that question, the follow-up question arose as to what the initiators have in mind in order to continue to protect the individuality of the position of civil servants and the corresponding legal status when they are terminated. I do not repeat the wording of that particularity, which has been discussed in detail in various speeches in the debate. However, I would like to take a moment to consider the response of the initiators through Mr Van Weyenberg. He said to some extent that he was able to agree with what various groups have brought in on this point. Mr Van Weyenberg even fully supported my specific argument on this point. The initiators added that they do not see the positive values and standards of the official culture preserved by "the magical effect of the one-sided appointment." We understand that answer, because otherwise this bill would not be there. But what's it gonna do to secure it? In their view, the initiators propose that the public service of officials in the public interest should be guaranteed in the Civil Service Act by means of the introduction law. They also propose to anchor the concept of good employership by the same means. My group is in favour of this, but not enough. Since these are good steps, we should probably ask the Minister whether he agrees and ask him to confirm this in a commitment to this Chamber. In doing so, we assume that a possible introduction law is a matter for the cabinet and no longer for the initiators. I told you, that's not enough. My group is not only concerned with fine wordings and good intentions in the law. The final point is whether the particular position of civil servants in the process of harmonisation is sufficiently safeguarded, especially in situations where the position of an official is really different from that of a private sector employee. This has been the subject of much of the debate, and we remain concerned about that. In a number of circumstances, there is an essential difference between working in the private sector and working in the public sector. That difference may have an impact on the legal position. The government, unlike a private employer, can, in its role as legislator, limit fundamental fundamental rights of employees far beyond any private employer. And that happens regularly in practice, with the agreement of both chambers. I refer, from the Acts of the previous time, to the right to strike, the freedom of demonstration, the freedom of expression on public affairs and the right to stand as a candidate. From previous Acts I can mention that an official remains a special employee on issues such as integrity, democratic state awareness and security investigation. The Minister also referred to this last time. However much the initiators wish that the roles of employers and legislators should not be confused, in practice they are sometimes inextricably linked for reasons of public interest. If that is the case, the special position of the official deserves its own protection, especially if there is a conflict. In that case, the legal protection of the employee must be guaranteed by law. There is an important point for my group. My group is not yet convinced of the answers given by the initiators in order to appoint this guarantee only in general terms by means of the introduction law. I would ask the initiators once again to state very precisely how they see that when this bill is introduced, the position of the official as an employee is specifically safeguarded in specific circumstances relating to the nature of the appointment. In this connection, we must express our deep regret that, in the run-up to this legislative proposal, there has been a polarising discussion between the unions and the initiators. I'm not gonna take a stand on who's right. We do, however, think it is a missed opportunity that the open dialogue with the unions on legislation affecting the legal certainty of employees in the public service has apparently not been conducted or has not been conducted sufficiently, which means that in the course of dealing with this legislation in our Court there are still court cases above the market. A process lasting more than six years should have produced a better result. My group has asked another question which I would like to come back to. We are concerned about the high implementation and transition costs of this law. We do not find the answer that these can be covered by the regular operating funds on the budget of various public bodies very convincing. My group has no examples of large-scale transition costs in the government that are covered in this way. It is precisely during this cabinet period that the groups of initiators have repeatedly found that the costs and efforts of transitions are underestimated. Whether it is the police, the Tax Administration, the UWV, the SVB or the major decentralisations, the examples are numerous. That is where our concerns have not yet been removed. We would like to know what the Minister thinks about this. The argument that the costs of introduction do not fall solely with the government is irrelevant to my group. The legislator, including this Chamber, should also be concerned about the effort and costs that provinces, municipalities and educational organisations have to face. We certainly appreciate a number of aspects of the legislative proposal. There is nothing wrong with the fact that, after 85 years, a law is being updated once, although I would like to point out that, even after legislative amendment, officials still operate in a democratic House of Thorbecke which has been based twice as long on unchanged foundations. We have no objection in principle to regular working conditions for civil servants being established in ordinary collective bargaining without legislation and that the principles of the Work and Security Act apply. In addition to the complex and comprehensive transition statement, our fundamental concern is whether the bill provides for the need to continue to provide sufficient legal certainty for employees in the government in the places where legislator and employer are inextricably linked. We look forward to the second-term answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, this is the first time. I will try to confine myself to those things that are needed in this second term, but I hope you will not blame me if I may have one more introductory remark. I would like to begin by emphasising the highness of office as a phenomenon: the office that withdraws us from the fleetingness of the day and also from the subjectivity of the person. There is a society without posts, but I do not think there is a rule of law. That is why we cannot be too careful about the post, which is not only filled by officials, but also by directors. I can even defend the argument that every citizen is in office. It is interesting to reflect on this, but time is now lacking. I have a dozen comments which also lead to questions for the authors, whom I thank for their great commitment and for their interesting answer last time. Nevertheless, I still have a number of questions. The essence of this bill is not that the proposers want to fully align civil servants with the market. My group does not want to say that. Applicants shall hold a special position for officials in Articles 5 and 6 of the Civil Service Act. It is not just about the normalization of top incomes, but also about the primacy of politics as anchored in the WOR. So it's not normalization, if you want to use that word already, which assumes that equivalence is normal, but at most partial standardisation. We want to admit that the authors do not deal lightly with the interests associated with the phenomenon of official service. In addition to admiration, my group has also looked with some surprise at the proposers and their predecessors and at the huge package of pieces that has been exchanged. What should be the conviction to adopt a bill that is so weak when it comes to the concrete effects and the concrete benefits and also the costs? It has been hard working for many years, there are high entry costs, the long-term benefits and revenues are not clear and new discussions are being called for. The authors have said that this is a textbook example of an initiative-ripe theme. This bill is about the employer and the employees in the public service. However, the Minister says that this is not his legislative proposal at the moment and the workers also say that they do not choose to do so. We therefore believe that it is incredibly risky to come up with a legislative initiative now and to do what the employer and the workers cannot do as legislators. I am not talking about the obligation of consultation, because I think the authors are legally right that the consultation obligation is not about the framework for material working conditions. In this respect, the legislator himself is competent. Apart from that legal reality, however, there is also a factual or if you want political reality. I would like to underline what Mr Lintmeijer has just said. It is very regrettable that this is not wanted jointly by the employer and the workers, because we could then talk in a relaxed way about the advantages and disadvantages of possible standardisation. We are forced to have equality, if you will excuse me. It's a certain equality, but under duress. How's that gonna end well? I have read in the explanatory memorandum that the somewhat dusty image of the administration is one of the reasons for this bill. I don't rule out the fact that there are people who think the official service has dust nests. I've seen them in my career, too. I just quit my job as an official after 46 years, so I've seen the corners and holes and also the dust nests. However, the official's image should never be a motive to justify such developments. In our view, it is very important to rid the public service of that image and to make it exciting, not necessarily with this kind of legislative proposal, but by stressing the responsibility of the official and the commonality of officials and politicians to serve the public service. In addition, the problems which seem to form the basis for this legislative proposal are not clear to our group. And frankly, they are not clear to the proposers either. In the beginning, many advantages are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. It concerns, for example, the exchange between the private sector and the public sector and the dynamics that will be brought into the public sector. Later in the treatment, however, you can see that all these benefits are difficult to demonstrate, which is also understandable, and that this is more about the principle. We are talking above all about a matter of principle, in which the proposers say: it should be so that officials employed by the government are not appointed unilaterally, but on the basis of duality. What exactly is the difficult situation for which a solution has to be found? I told you, I have 46 years of experience. I'm not just talking to myself, I'm talking to all those thousands of colleagues I've worked with. I never noticed that was a point for those officials to do their job properly. There were all kinds of other problems. It is a difficult profession to be a civil servant and to work in the public service, but it was not about this issue. In my opinion, a great deal of inspiration and a great deal of commitment is needed to make the official service attractive, but this bill is not appropriate, especially in view of the context. I have a question about the costs. The cost may be 100 million or more, but nothing has been said about the cover. The minister says he doesn't have any money for it. It would also be crazy if there were just a $100 million post in the budget, but where is the money? Do we really burden the minister or the municipalities, provinces and waterboards with unpredictable costs? At the expense of what is this supposed to be? Isn't it logical that a bill should also provide cover for what one wants? A further point concerns the exceptions. This normalization is only partial and applies even to some of the officials, because about 20% is not covered. So this is not a new solution. It is actually a partial solution for part of the public service that brings new boundaries. I ask the proposers whether it is not a problem that you should have new borders again that will open up new discussions. My final question to the authors is about current developments. In the last 15 years, civil servants have long since ceased to work exclusively for the government, but there is a desire for civil servants to work for society as much as possible. I refer to the publication The fourth power revisited by Mark Bovens from the year 2000. I also refer to the Van de Donk committee, the Committee on Future-oriented Local Government, which says that civil servants should not only be directed at that alderman or at that minister, but that they should also go outside much more, into society. I just opened the magazine of the VNG, our praiseless body magazine VNG Magazine, in which prof. Zeger van der Wal says that more than before the official of the 21st century will have to go on stage. This means something for the vulnerability of officials who go outside and who thereby become accessible to what they have said and therefore run the risk of conflicting with their employer. We are now seeing this transition of officials who are only vertically directed towards civil servants who are much more socially externally oriented. Is this the right time to make this legislative change? Should we not first experience the consequences of this development and then look at what this might mean for legal protection? I would like to mention the balance for our group. We are not convinced of the benefits. We do not think this is a bad legislative proposal, but we do think that those who want to do so should also show the benefits, because it will trigger an incredible operation, with 100 million in costs and with a lot of movements that can distract us from what really matters at the moment, namely to make an attractive, modern and rapid public service that is responsive to society. I have no doubt that the proposers want that too, but our problem is that we do not see that this operation is necessary for that purpose. I sincerely hope they can help us out of the dream. In this respect, we are also waiting for their response. The point is that we do not lose ourselves in symbolism or in incredibly viscous and lengthy processes and that we are soon blinking, looking back and saying: we have changed something, but actually this is not what it was about. That is the great concern of our group. I hope that the authors will respond to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for their reactions on my first term. The D66 Group has previously expressed its general support for the intention to achieve the greatest possible uniformity between the legal status of civil servants and employees in the private sector. The developments in civil law, but certainly also in administrative law, call in our view for up-to-date legislation. We therefore accept, in particular, that the protection of public law against acts and decisions relating to civil servants should be terminated and that legal protection should continue to be limited to private law. In other words, the most substantial element of the legislative proposal is that of procedural change. Of course, this principle requires certain exceptions on the basis of serious arguments. There are issues that go beyond the issues that are part of the regular working conditions consultation. In that sense, it is therefore appropriate to maintain the Civil Service Act and the AMMs based on it for the special arrangement of those elements of official status which are closely linked to the special nature of public service work. Mr Sietsma spoke just now about this, and not wrongly. The draft law does not, therefore, completely put an end to the very nature of civil servants' status. I'm glad you didn't. Working for the public sector will continue to be valued with a separate status, which is reflected, inter alia, in the special protection against a possible violation of fundamental rights. In this second period we have a number of further questions and comments to the initiators. Do we now understand that the original ratio behind the existing administrative status, namely the prevention of dismissal for political reasons, is sufficiently guaranteed under the new regime? This is a fundamental point on which, at least in my group's opinion, there should be no misunderstanding. In addition, I have a question of a very different order. How will the collective agreements be for independent administrative bodies and for inter-administrative cooperation bodies with legal personality? Are these included in the national collective agreements and in the collective agreements for provinces and municipalities? That's what we like to hear. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions. What exactly is the government's position if the ratification phase were to come? We don't know if it's gonna come in yet, but I'm not ruling that out. In the first term in this Chamber, the Minister indicated that he would leave the ruling on the bill to the Chamber. In my view, he says that, if that judgment is positive, ratification will also be achieved. However, he also said that he would continue to hold open consultations with the unions on the implementation of the law. That was a slightly different wording from the wording used by the Minister in the House of Representatives. He then said that, in the situation where a majority in the Second and First Chambers wants the law to be passed, he could not enter into an open and real consultation with the trade unions on whether or not that law should be passed. The Minister indicated that there is and cannot be such an obligation. Also on the suggestion that the government's ratification should depend on an agreement-oriented consultation with the trade unions, the Minister wanted to make no mistake. He considered this unthinkable and impure under state law. My group fully agrees with that view. I should like to hear from the Minister whether he still supports this view and, in particular, what he meant in the first term in this Chamber by the formula 'consultation on the implementation of this law'. In this context, it is important that, at our meeting four weeks ago, a letter was circulated from the civil servants' centres, announcing an interim injunction unless the Minister made certain commitments. That has been referred to before. I haven't heard anything else about the interim proceedings. This raises the question of whether the Minister may have made written or oral commitments to the power stations. If that's the case, we'd like to hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their first-term replies. Some of these answers have provided more clarity on this bill, but some of the questions and concerns of the PvdA Group still exist. I am very grateful to my fellow Members for giving us the time to prepare this second term properly. As far as we are concerned, there was every reason for that. Well, that certainly has to do with passion. Mr Flierman has seen this very well. As the applicants have said, the Civil Service Act has been in existence for over 80 years. If we want the law we are discussing today to last as long as we can, then we must treat it carefully here. In my first term, I indicated that we certainly see positive aspects of this legislative proposal, but that we are wondering whether the degree of equivalence which the proposers seek between the official as an employee and the government as an employer is feasible and whether the comparison with the market sector is feasible. It was good to hear that the applicants also consider that an official serving the public sector has a substantially different function than an employee in the market sector. We were also pleased that, like us, the proposers felt that officials should be able to do their work politically independently and, if necessary, that they should be able to give priority to loyalty to the institution they serve over loyalty to the people who are in charge of that institution at some point. For this reason, it is very important that an official be protected from political dismissal. The authors were also happy to agree with us. The proposers considered the preventive test to be an adequate remedy against political arbitrariness. We wonder whether that is enough. As an employer, it would be a good idea to give the civil court what it should mean by good civil service. We therefore attach great importance to the fact that the implementation of good civil service is laid down in the law itself and not only in a code of conduct or possibly an AMvB. We have heard the proposers say that they would be okay if this were still regulated by law in the introduction laws. That's a step forward. The definition of good civil service cannot easily be changed. This in turn prevents the interpretation of the concept, which is directly linked by the proposers to a ground for dismissal, from becoming too easy a playball of political lazy. However, it also raises two questions. Is the Minister also prepared to settle this in an introduction law? What happens between the adoption of this bill and the coming of such an introduction law? Given the large amount of legislation and regulations that would have to be amended as a result of this legislative proposal, this may take a while. The applicants also indicated that they would have no objection if the obligation to be a good employer would return to the Civil Service Act. They removed this duty, but indicated that, as far as they are concerned, he could be brought back to the introduction laws. That, too, seems to us to be an important step. As far as we are concerned, reference to the Civil Code cannot be enough, because the government is an essentially different employer than an employer in the market sector. It is precisely if you want to achieve as much equality as possible between civil servants and employees in the market that it is important to take account of the differences that exist and remain. Here too, the proposers indicate that this could be regulated as far as they are concerned by the introduction laws. That is why we are asking whether the Minister is prepared to do so and, if so, how long it will take. In the meantime, are civil servants sufficiently protected? The core of our concerns about this law is still the question of whether a relationship comparable to the market between the government as an employer and the official as an employee is feasible. Fortunately, the authors are now honest in saying that there is also a hierarchical relationship between employer and employee in the market sector. This legislative proposal concerns how firm the position of an employee or official vis-à-vis the employer or the government is. Then there are at least two points in which civil servants in their position as employees are weaker in our analysis than their colleagues in the market. On the first point, the fundamental rights of civil servants, the authors have gone into detail in their first term. On the second, Parliament's budget law, it isn't. I'm gonna walk by both of them today. The position of the authors on the fundamental rights of civil servants is, if I understand correctly, that they are better protected than those of workers in the market sector. First of all, the applicants indicated that employees in the market sector may also be subject to unilateral restrictions on fundamental rights by employers. In addition, according to the authors, fundamental rights of civil servants should only be restricted by formal law. According to the authors, this still gives the fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution for civil servants vertical effect, whereas they do not have them for workers in the market sector. We have looked again at this argument within our group. I always feel extremely privileged with a professor of public law in my group who specialises in fundamental rights. We all know Mr. Schrijver as a lovely man, but in this reasoning his eyebrows went up a bit. We are convinced that the authors have shown a somewhat limited look. Fundamental rights of Dutch citizens are not only enshrined in the Constitution. Fundamental rights are also enshrined in international treaties, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. These provisions have direct effect for all citizens to the same extent, including for workers in the market sector. It is certainly true that, for example, workers in the market sector can be restricted in their freedom of expression, but this cannot be imposed unilaterally by the employer. This should be laid down or at least have a basis in the contract concluded by employees in the market sector with an employer when they are employed. However, for civil servants, the restriction of their fundamental rights is not the result of a contractual obligation which they voluntarily undertake. For civil servants, fundamental rights cannot be negotiated, as the restriction of their fundamental rights is enshrined in the formal law. The legislator shall have the right, the official shall have the right. The scope of fundamental rights restricted by civil servants is also significantly greater than that of employees in the market sector. That you are not allowed to tweet negative about your boss, indeed applies soon at market and government, we give the proposers. But it will be different with the ban on stopping or limiting the possibility of stopping. Let alone not having the right to stand as a candidate. Or the freedom of religion. Think, for example, of not wearing a headscarf or a yarmulke by judges or prosecutors. What makes the position of civil servants here weaker than that of employees in the market sector is that the government, as an employer, has a powerful ally behind it, namely the government as a legislator. Such an ally does not have employers in the market sector. Those are the proposers, aren't they, I hope, with us? In that light, would they like to go back to this point? We are not concerned with the case-law, but with the fact that the government as an employer always has the government on its side as legislators. Once the legislator has spoken, there is nothing more to negotiate for the official as an employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u10	I listened with great interest to this part of Mrs Barth's speech, all the more so because Mr Schrijver was once a year old friend of mine in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u11	That was a good year, Mr. Engels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u12	Absolutely! I could mention a few more. Unfortunately, there were also Vindicators, so don't let me make it crazy. Anyway, that doesn't mean you always have to agree. I was struck by the part in your speech in which you say that the legislator has the power and the official is in charge. You say that the position of civil servants when it comes to the protection of fundamental rights would be weaker, because the legislator is also an employer at the same time. I would like to make the following point. Maybe you can reflect on that. Fundamental rights can be restricted by the formal legislator, the Constitution itself states. That can't be unlimited. There are all kinds of conditions. There's case law about it. Fundamental rights are not absolute, but they are not outlawed either. If the legislator restricts a fundamental right, we see that in all areas, but we also have to assume that the legislator is the body with the strongest democratic legitimacy we know in our system. That is the democratic element, and then that the law is, at national level in any case, the most high-quality product we know? Is there not an element in this that enables officials to say that fundamental rights are not unlimited for us too; if they are limited, are we assured that this is only done by a body and with a product that meets the highest demands of democracy and the rule of law? Doesn't that count?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u13	Sure does. But I have to go back two steps, if Mr Engels will allow me. The basic idea of this legislative proposal is that the relationship between employees and employers in the public sector is aligned as much as possible with that in the market sector. We wonder whether the equivalence between government and the market, which the proposers are trying to achieve by means of this bill, is possible at all, because the position of civil servants as employees vis-à-vis the government as their employer, is fundamentally different. One of the two essential elements is that officials cannot negotiate their fundamental rights. An employee in the market sector can negotiate it, for example when he concludes his contract. You may accept a job in the market sector, where it is indeed stated that you are not meant to tweet negatively about your boss. Then you can say you want more pay or vacation days because of that limitation. You can negotiate it. Officials cannot negotiate on this, precisely because, as Mr Engels points out, the legislator determines where the fundamental rights of civil servants are restricted. So there's nothing to negotiate. It's in the law. And the legislator is above the negotiation between an employee and an employer. There are no employers in the market sector who can enforce by formal law on their employees that certain fundamental rights of them are restricted. Employers in the market sector should not do that, because they are not legislators. I hope that Mr Engels understands my reasoning now, otherwise I fear that we will continue to talk alongside each other. I'd be sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u14	Mr. Engels, have you understood?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u15	I understand, but I still have a hesitation. It is also a fundamental point, otherwise I would have stayed put. We have found that there is no complete alignment of two types of workers. There are advantages and disadvantages to it. I understand what Mrs Barth has said, but I would like to say once again that you can also reason the other way around. Because of the particular nature of the public case and the particular nature of the official, it could be an achievement for civil servants if they knew that the restriction of their fundamental rights is not negotiable, because the only limitation that is possible is by a democratic and legally legitimised legislator. Does that not make the position of public service officials with public tasks much stronger than if you could or should negotiate on this, such as in the market sector, for example for a higher salary and less fundamental rights? I think of that as something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u16	We are trying to make a real difference between civil servants as a group and as an individual, because this bill also has a huge impact on civil servants as individuals. Also at individual level, the proposers aim to achieve as much equality as possible between public authorities and the market. Individuals negotiate a contract when they're employed somewhere. So what we are looking at is the space that an individual, a person who wants to become a civil servant, has vis-à-vis a person in the market sector to negotiate his contractual situation. Then we see that an individual official has no room to negotiate fundamental rights, where workers in the market sector do have that space, because employers in the market sector cannot restrict fundamental rights by formal law, which is valid for all. As far as we're concerned, he's in the mix of the government as a legislator and the government as an employer. This mix-up means that the position of civil servants is substantially different from that of employees in the market sector. In our opinion, therefore, civil servants are also in the wind with less protection, because they have an employer who is very easily able to step into that role of legislator without us all being aware of it. That is why, as far as we are concerned, civil servants deserve additional protection against the almighty government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u17	Mrs Barth makes the difference between civil servants and ordinary workers in this debate much greater than it is in practice. I would like to give you a few examples of this. She was talking about the restraining order for civil servants. I honestly admit that I do not know the exact legal text on this point. But the practice is that civil servants do strike and if necessary it is the judge who restricts it. The same judge also imposes a restriction on strikes by employees in the private sector, if necessary. She can check with the stewards of the KLM. So that difference isn't that big at all. A second point is that of the fundamental rights mentioned by Mrs Barth. To my best knowledge, all fundamental rights in this country apply to all Dutch people. On the contrary, there is no difference between civil servants and 'ordinary', other Dutch people. Mrs Barth makes the comparison between the government as an employer and the government as a legislator. However, the government as legislator is indeed able to impose restrictions on workers in other sectors. The government has that possibility and does so in practice. I would like to hear Mrs Barth's reaction to this. If you work at Schiphol Airport, or at a company that works for the Defense Department, you're also dealing with limitations. If you work in forensic care, even at a private institution, you also have to deal with restrictions imposed by the legislator. In my opinion, the difference Mrs Barth is building is far less significant than she suggests. I'd like to hear her reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u18	Fundamental rights do indeed apply to every citizen in the Netherlands. However, we have a Civil Service Act, which includes additional articles that allow the fundamental rights of civil servants to be restricted. Such articles are not available for employees in the market sector. By the way, defense personnel can't stop. That's just a restraining order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u19	But that's why defence personnel aren't covered by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u20	I will come back later to the exceptions to the bill that the proposers are making. However, Mr Flierman said that there is no ban on strikes. Well, for defense officials, there's definitely a strike order. The case law of judges on strikes also shows that judges impose restrictions on the right to strike in the public sector much more quickly than in the private sector. These include policemen, firefighters and paramedics. In the case of those workers, the judge looks much more closely at the need to take action or lay down the work than in the case of employees in the market sector. So there is a difference. I have indicated that I did not want to go into this case, but I do not know, for example, any employer in the public sector who is allowed to ban someone from wearing a yarmulke. It's okay with the government. There is no employer capable of restricting the right to stand as a candidate for election of his employees. It's okay with the government. Municipal officials living in the place where they work are not allowed to enter the city council. These are very far-reaching interventions in the fundamental rights of civil servants. This really goes beyond the market sector. I think it is right for the authors to say that they see this real difference. I am not seeking to undermine this bill. I would like to taste the merits of the authors of this bill to ensure that we legislate carefully. Officials need additional protection because they are sometimes weaker than employees in the market sector. This bill should not lead us to deprive them of that protection and that nothing will come in return. We should not say yes to this as a parliament and, after a while, we should ask ourselves what we have actually done. That's what we're after. That is why I very much hope that the proposers will not go along in this case, but that they will be prepared to look at our central point. As an employer, the government has a very powerful ally in the government as legislator and thus has a substantially different position from employers in the market sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u21	The authors will be speaking themselves, but I would now like to put a question to Mrs Barth. I have the idea that the law which aims to prevent the government from restricting fundamental rights as an employer is precisely a protection for civil servants. That protection remains in the new bill. In my opinion, the authors do not change the formal law on breaches of the fundamental rights of civil servants. This law is in favour of civil servants; it is not an additional burden, but an additional guarantee that the employer does not get too lightly into his role as legislator to limit fundamental rights. In my opinion, there is not so much change in that respect about these fundamental rights, because the requirement of the formal law of containment remains as it is. Is that why Mrs Barth can explain her concern to me again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u22	I am glad that Mr Sietsma is asking this question. I think this question stems from the fact that he did not hear my first term last year. He's absolutely right. At that time, I also said that, around the position of civil servants and the possibility of restricting their fundamental rights by formal law, this bill does not change anything. However, this bill does change the whole context. In my first term, I tried to indicate the following. The current method of appointment of civil servants and the current consultation system, as laid down by law and regulation, compensates for the limitation of civil servants in order to negotiate their fundamental rights in a good way. This legislative proposal retains unchanged the limitation of the fundamental rights of civil servants, but the context, which gives the civil servant some extra protection compared to that almighty government that can also intervene as legislator, is precisely abolished by this legislative proposal. In doing so, we have serious concerns as to whether the balance between the rights and obligations of the public authorities and the civil servant is adequately secured by this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u23	I'm just gonna say it again for a short time. Maybe the initiators should just say it one more time. However, I would like to respond once again, because Mrs Barth says very emphatically that we need to have a careful debate here on the enforcement and feasibility of the law. One of its main concerns is that it considers the position of the official to be weaker than that of the employee in the private sector, because for the official the government may change its status, namely from employer to legislator. However, there is a curious element in her reasoning, which does not seem convincing to me. The government as an employer is not the legislator. The government as an employer is ultimately the Council of Ministers. There is a very big difference between what the government does as an employer, where final responsibility will lie with the Council of Ministers, and what the government does as a legislator. We ourselves are part of the legislative body. However, I do not wish to directly claim that as part of the legislative body I can switch between my role as an employer and a co-member of a legislative body. In itself, I understand Mrs Barth's great concern. However, the equivalence underlying that concern is not purely state law. The government is not both an employer and a legislator. Those are different organs. That doesn't run the same way, so that shape change can't happen one-on-one either. The government as an employer is also bound by what the legislator ultimately regulates with regard to the position of civil servants. I am not yet convinced that this position is weaker in advance than that of employees in the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u24	I fear that Mr Engels is making himself here, as co-legislator, really too small. This legislative proposal has a very profound impact on the legal position of civil servants. As parliamentarians, we are also here today as an employer. What we are doing is directly interfering with all the appointments of officials currently in office. They are currently adopted by means of a legal act. However, if this bill continues, they will suddenly be covered by a collective agreement. Then you're really working on civil servants' terms of employment. There is also another example, where the government as an employer and the government as a legislator can indeed strengthen each other. That is the next point in my speech. I would like to continue with this, because then I can give Mr Engels a second example in which he makes his own role too small. The second example concerns Parliament's budget law. The working conditions area in the market sector is created or is growing on the basis of a company's profits, productivity growth and a company's policy choices. The reference model is used to pass market developments on to the working conditions area for the public sector. However, this does not happen until politics in the form of the cabinet and the Second and First Chamber has found something about it. I would point out to Mr Engels that budgets are simply legislative proposals. Practice shows that it is no exception that politics does indeed find something of this working conditions area. There is a good overview in the report Extraordinary normal direction of the Borstlap Commission, which has made a study of a new governance model for the working conditions negotiations in the public sector. Since the introduction of the reference model in 1997, the government has imposed no less than six times the absolute zero line, whereas it did not apply in the market at the time. In addition, a three-time discount has been applied to the outcome of the reference model by a discount on the contract wage increase. Finally, except between 2000 and 2002, occasional wage developments for civil servants have been completely reduced each year. Once again, I am not giving this overview to end up in a debate on this case. I have read the passages in the Borstlap report on the overall comparison between the market and the government in salary development. The point the PvdA Group wishes to illustrate with this list is that it is also extremely complicated in the working conditions area to distinguish between the role of the government as an employer and the government as a legislator. These roles are often mixed up, even in the period since 1997 when attempts have been made to replicate collective bargaining in the market sector as much as possible. Employers in the market do not have such an ally in this respect either, someone who can draw a final line if the collective bargaining is not sufficiently financially moving in the right direction. This means that civil servants and the trade unions representing them are less firmly in their shoes than their colleagues in the market. The government can impose a dictation in financial space with the support of parliament. Employers in the market cannot do that. The authors pointed out the duty of open and real consultation, as laid down in ILO Convention 98, which would apply to the officials covered by this bill. That's true. The applicants are right, but that treaty has no direct effect on the Dutch courts and has no possibility of sanctions. All the unions will soon be able to do if the government, as legislator, comes to the aid of the government as an employer, is to file a complaint in Geneva. That is something, but in our opinion it is not enough to say that the position of the unions in the public sector will be as strong after the adoption of this bill as that of their colleagues in the market sector. The Borstlap Committee also sees this problem. Should this initiative act be adopted, it calls on the Cabinet in its report to point out to the States-General that the budget law on the working conditions area for civil servants should be used with restraint. Otherwise, it will be very difficult to carry out full, open and real collective bargaining in accordance with ILO Convention 98. Do the authors agree with the Borstlap Committee that this is a logical consequence of their legislative proposal? Have they satisfied themselves sufficiently that all 225 Members of Parliament are aware that this is a consequence of their legislative proposal and that it will have to be complied with not only now or in the near future, but forever? Is the Minister prepared to lay this down by law in the introduction laws? It should not be too easy to allow this restraint to continue. You can't have your cake and eat it, even as a parliament. The Borstlap Committee goes even further in its report which is very reading. It states that, following the adoption of this bill, it is no longer possible to impose a zero line on the officials covered, because it is contrary to ILO Convention 98. What do the proposers and the Minister think about that? Are they in agreement with the committee and, if so, does this not lead to an undesirable distinction between different groups of officials? Surely it is not a good thing if policemen, judges and soldiers are still at risk of being put on the line and teachers, policy makers and garbagemen aren't? Let there be no misunderstanding, we grant that these latter groups will, of course, be very much, but the difference will not be understood by the group that can still be affected. This brings me to my second final point: the distinction between officials who would and would not be covered by this bill. We had asked the authors to argue that in substance. Unfortunately, like a number of colleagues, we feel that this has not yet been fully achieved. Having no right to strike has played a bit, but again the monopoly of violence and a motion in the House of Representatives have not. But motions by the House of Representatives, however venerable, are in our view less convincing than sound legal arguments. Is that the story with which we may have to explain to the secretary of the Secretary of Defense that she will fall under a zero line and not her colleague from the Minister of Finance? On this point, too, we found the Borstlap Committee's report very clear. She's using a three-parter. Officials working in the Empire, Defence, the police and the judiciary are close to the national government and thus close to the establishment of the working conditions area by the cabinet, the responsible trade ministers and the parliament. In the Committee's view, this is far less true for civil servants working in public education, umc's and for local authorities. Why didn't the proposers choose to introduce this basic classification? It is not only clear, but also much more defendable in terms of content. In other words, the closer you are to the political place where the scope of your working conditions is available, the less it is possible but also desirable to pretend to be an employee in the market. Wouldn't that have been simpler? Wouldn't that have been better in terms of law? Can national officials at all be covered by this bill, given that ILO Convention 98 explicitly states that this is not valid for civil servants in charge of the administration of the State? How does the Minister feel about that? Is he prepared to study the classification of Borstlap again and to give it concrete form? What does this bill mean for people who now work at a Zbo? In their first term, the applicants have stressed very strongly that they believe that they should be officials because they fit in with their work. But what impact does that have on their legal status and on their current contracts, which have been negotiated out as if they were employees in the market, sometimes with collective agreements and all? How have the applicants legally ensured that they do not suddenly lose their existing rights if they become officials? This brings me to my final point: the design of the working conditions consultation and the position of the unions in it. The applicants have indicated that they themselves have not spoken to the unions once about their legislative proposal. The unions were consulted by the original proposers. According to the applicants, at that time they had only a substantive point on transitional rights and that was met. I ask the authors again what I did not succeed in interrupting and what other colleagues have already asked: if you inherit such a bill from a colleague, what is it really against just to talk to the unions, to involve them in what you are doing and to secure a certain level of support? Or do the proposers not think that support is necessary or not important? The unions feel sidelined by this bill; so much is clear. We received another letter last Monday. Their position shall be undermined without agreement and with retroactive effect. How do both proposers view this fit the polder tradition of our country? What do they think about the fact that in this course of events the unions see a confirmation of their fears as to where this bill will go, namely that the government, as an employer, can impose a dictation by the government as a legislator? The authors see as an advantage of this bill that civil servants covered will be protected by ILO Convention 98. How does this relate to ignoring ILO Convention 151, which already entitles civil servants to open and real consultation and which has been secured in the Netherlands by the rules of the RDP? The same ROP regime disappears with this bill with one stroke of pens. How does that disappear relate to Article 6 of the European Social Charter, which obliges Member States to ensure the effective exercise of the right to collective bargaining? The RDP does disappear because of this bill, but nothing is coming back. How does that relate to Article 6 of the European Social Charter? How does the Minister feel about that? Does he consider that the fact that he did not conduct this agreement-oriented consultation in accordance with ILO Convention 151, and if so, what does he base it on? What was wrong, I ask the Minister, as in the first term, to simply consult on something far-reaching like this bill, without having the official eye-stamp? Why didn't the minister just sit down with the unions? That's been an opportunity for four years, hasn't it? What does the Minister think about this, too, that I have asked in the first instance that the municipalities have already indicated that they will immediately end the organised consultation that takes place locally if this bill is adopted and that there are local authorities who have already indicated that they will no longer negotiate collective working conditions with the unions, if this bill is adopted, but that they will transfer it to the works council? Can he imagine that would not increase the confidence of the unions? Should this law succeed, is the Minister prepared to comply with his own RDP regime and still seek agreement with the unions on the introduction laws and other laws and regulations that will be necessary to allow this law to land properly? Is the Minister prepared to make agreements with the unions on how a new system of consultation ensures their position properly and appropriately? Finally, a question to which I did not receive an answer in the first period: will the Minister promise that there will be no cuts in the administration to cover the costs of introducing this law? The written answers say that the Minister will seek such cover in equipment costs. Does he agree with us that the introduction of this law should not cost jobs? A lot of questions. I look forward to receiving good answers, which will hopefully help to bring the struggle of my group to an end with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u25	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I considered the timeline of this initiative proposal in detail and also critical. Nor was I in the opinion of my group on the level of the written procedure, both in the reply and in the further reply. Critical questions on our part and reservations were addressed in the vein of 'the choice of principle is above practical objections'. My group's perception was that this was done under the motto 'don't complain about details'. The VVD was therefore sceptical and waiting for the resumption of the examination of the proposal on 27 September. However, the time-out of a year proved to have had a mutually purifying effect. In my group's view, the reaction of the proposers did satisfy the requirements of every aspect of the proposal when it comes to dealing with such a far-reaching proposal. The authors have put the debate, which had gotten bogged down in a well-nietesmuras, back at the level where it belongs. A compliment to Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Keijzer is therefore appropriate. Does this mean that the VVD is convinced that all its critical points of the first term have disappeared like snow for the sun? No, definitely not. But the initial mild positivism that can be read back in our first contribution to the March 2014 report has come back to life. It's, like, resuscitated. The initial willingness to be convinced, which has shriveled ever further in recent years as the treatment progressed, is very carefully resurrected. Much remains to be done in implementing legislation. Unfortunately, the Minister remained very vague about this, while he had to play the leading role in it. From his brief reaction, it would be inferred that he would be welcome to reject this proposal. Or is that a misjudgement? In normal legislative processes, it is not unusual for departments to anticipate the adoption of a legislative proposal by the First Chamber far in advance and there is almost no way back in practice. I remind the Minister of the treatment of the WNT2 in this Chamber on 22 December 2014. The law had to enter into force by January 1st, so that everything was on edge. That is why the question is: what is the state of play? Is everything in the docks or in the fridge? What does the Minister do when there is a need to change positions? If this bill is adopted, what will happen from next week until the next cabinet and when can we expect the next proposals? My group continues to believe that the WNT2 and this proposal conflict with each other. I'll say it mildly, that they're at least in each other's way. The principles of duality and the separation between the role of legislator and that of employer are the pillars of this normalization. The WNT has made an opposite movement. I thought it was a little too far to say anything about that, I say to Mrs Barth. As I pointed out in an interruption debate on 27 September, the VVD was and is not opposed to the basic principles that led to the WNT1. However, the VVD is against all successors who want to legally lay down the entire wage structure of all public and semi-public companies. For free negotiations, however, the objective of this legislative proposal is only very marginal. Wouldn't the proposers want to point out that space again? How does the Minister intend to put these into practice himself? My group shares the comments of the authors on the role of the unions in an initiative legislative proposal: please have opinions, but not a veto. Mr Van Weyenberg stated that the Civil Service Act of 1929 needed to be replaced. In itself, my group does not think that this is a convincing argument: the Constitution is 80 years older. Legislation is not static, it is an ongoing process of time adjustments. One of the most important elements of this proposal of standardisation is that my group believes that the role of the unions is being adapted to this time, which is normalized to equal advisers and negotiators, without veto, as in all other sectors. However, a good position and relationship with the unions is very important. We wonder whether the relationship has already normalized itself, whether there are discussions about the future or whether agreements have been made. One final point to which my group is particularly concerned is that this standardisation does not de facto achieve complete equality with private sector employers, as was initially suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u26	I have another question about the normalization of trade unions. Do I understand Mrs Huijbregts correctly that she says: in fact, we did not need law normalization legal status officials, but a law normalization functioning unions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u27	The role of trade unions in this sector is similar to their role in the private sector. It is now the case that all trade unions must be negotiated and a majority of them must agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u28	What Mrs Huijbregts is saying is correct, but she is actually saying that the whole Law on standardisation of civil servants would not be necessary if we had agreed that things would be different with the trade unions. It is now entirely up to the trade unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u29	I said that we think that is one of the important things. In our view, that is one of the important things. That element is part of this proposal. My position is that the normalization of the legal status of civil servants also involves the normalization of the negotiating position of the unions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u30	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u31	How does Mrs Huijbregts then view the fact that there has been no consultation so far between the initiators and the trade unions? If you want to make these relationships normal, you should talk to them at an early stage. This applies not only to the predecessors of the initiators, but also to the initiators themselves. How does Mrs Huibregts feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u32	I can only rely on the judgement and response of the initiators that the unions wanted to negotiate this bill. That's not the point. It is up to the legislator, the parliament, to deal with this bill and to form an opinion on it. I think we all believe that there will be or could have been a discussion with the trade unions, but not with the knife on the table or with the threat of an interim ruling above the table, as we heard last time. So I would argue that there is no complete equivalence with private sector employees, but that there is de facto a third intermediate sector added. This creates two kinds of civil servants, which is also not denied. The bulk of it is that 80% of it is a bit of everything. That is the result of the proposal before us. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Keijzer also confirmed this. They were almost convinced in their reaction that it is not so bad that we will soon be working in the government with two systems. However, Mrs Keijzer said that there would be a single legal system within one organisation. That seems obvious, but that too can, of course, conflict with other principles that apply to the Empire as an employer. What consequences does this have, for example, for a state-wide employability, for a flexible deployment of staff? There will be one employer, the Empire, and two different legal positions. What happens in the event that a civil servant............................................................................................................................................................. What is the role of the General Administrative Service in this? It was supposed to stimulate things like the flow of civil servants and quality improvement, wasn't it? There's still a lot of questions. A lot of questions have already been asked by colleagues. I await the answers of the proposers and the Minister with particular interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the authors and the Minister for their reply. When I began to follow the debate about the change in the legal status of civil servants, which some people called 'normalization', about ten years ago, I could not have sworn that I would be faced with this again many, many years later in the First Chamber and certainly not that it would then seem as if the debate had just started again there. Everything has now passed from a to z. In this second period, therefore, I should like to confine myself to a summary of our position and one question on the most serious objection to this initiative proposal that we currently have. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of harmonising the legal status of civil servants with those of other workers, but this has to be a harmonization upwards. This also applies from the point of view of other workers. We very much welcome the improvement of their working conditions and, if they were reflected in those of officials, the improvement of their working conditions. So, as far as we are concerned, it may all be more and more alike, but the best of both legal systems must be the starting point. In this context, we have so far had two serious objections to the initiative proposal. The first concerns the legal status of dismissal. The transition to the private sector legal regime seemed to be a significant decline for civil servants so far, but I am talking about a longer period of time, because the debate on this initiative proposal has been going on for many years. In the meantime, this situation has changed since the introduction of the Work and Security Act. The dismissal scheme for non-officials is now at least as good and perhaps even better than that for civil servants. This is mainly because non-officials within similar procedures are now entitled to a preventive dismissal test, whereas civil servants do not. I do not know whether it could also lead to a double payment of waiting money and of the 'transition fee' mentioned with a terrible word in the current redundancy legislation. I am very curious to hear the answer to the questions raised by the SGP colleague. But even if it were to lead to that, of course we would see it as a step forward for the official. In this respect, therefore, our objection to the initiative proposal has been removed. That does not apply to our second major objection. This relates to the position of trade unions in consultation with the government as an employer. We consider their current position in consultation with the government as an employer to be better than their position in the collective bargaining sectors. It is not the case that this agreement-oriented consultation always leads to agreement or that the unions in the civil service always have a strong position or some kind of right of veto. In the current situation for officials, too, there has been a zero line and all kinds of reductions have been made. Although there was an agreement on this subject, if that agreement was not reached, the Minister could still continue his plan as long as the House of Representatives took the same view. However, as in the private sector, the unions could try to use their leverage, including the right to strike. So there is not such a great difference between them, but as Mrs Barth said, it could get worse if the government employer was not just the minister in consultation with the government officials' unions, but that is also the municipalities, the water authorities, the provinces, whether individually or not, because in my opinion nothing in the law obliges you to continue to do so collectively. That would, by the way, include the necessary ins and outs in legal terms, but well, one could try it. Even if a government employer were to agree to a collective agreement with a minority union, which is still far more common for the latter, there is, of course, a drastic deterioration in the position of the civil servants, the employees in that case, and their unions. I want to know what the Minister will do about it. Is he planning to do something about it? That question has been asked much before, by Mrs Barth in various bodies. If I have followed it correctly, he has so far only replied that he is going to discuss the implementation law with a view to reaching agreement. That is fine in itself, but it is not an answer to the question whether he is also seeking to maintain the current position in the collective agreement consultation, which is not yet called 'cao' but is in the process of being held. He should talk to the VNG or municipalities, but he could at least arrange it for the government officials himself. He can now tell us whether it is his commitment to create a new structure for consultation, which can also be done in collective agreements where the position of the unions is as well regulated as at present? If the Minister strives to do so, the unions will certainly take it up. For example, an important objection that we still have against the initiative proposal will be removed. In my view, it is primarily the Minister's responsibility, but he can already respond to it now, because it is a decisive point for us in the assessment of this law. I am also very interested in how the initiators see this. Do they wish to remove the suspicion that some people have expressed that their initiative is aimed at weakening the position of the unions, if not explicitly, implicitly? You could also read that it is not the intention at all. That is why I am interested in how they want to characterize the future negotiating position of unions in collective agreements. Or do they say: that is frivolous; as in the market sector, can any employer fill that out as badly as he wants? That's my main question in this term. I would like to make one more point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u34	Mr Köhler, please be brief, because you've been through your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u35	My apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u36	Go ahead, but briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u37	I'll be very brief. Some groups, in particular the VVD Group, have argued against the proposal for an initiative that would conflict with or even conflict with the Top Income Standards Act. Our group does not share that view at all. The Top Income Standards Act covers all kinds of sectors, including collective agreements, which depend on the financing of the Empire, municipalities or whatever. That law therefore does not only concern civil servants. He also refers to the semi-government and things that you can't actually call semi-government, such as hospitals, housing corporations and so on. So the proposal before us is indifferent to that. If more people move from an official legal position to a collective agreement legal position, this has no further relationship with the Top Income Standards Act. The group of people covered by the Top Income Standards Act remains the same. It doesn't get bigger or smaller. So we do not share this objection to this initiative proposal. We are very interested in the answer to our main question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Köhler. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u39	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term questions. We will, of course, do our best to answer these questions as well as possible. Mrs Huijbregts has set the bar high for this. I understand that, after the written reply and in the first period, there was an upward trend, which carefully reduced optimism and the mildness. It's up to us to try to continue that line. I've divided my answer into six cubes. The first block deals with the drafting of the bill. The second block deals with official culture. The third block is about costs and benefits. The fourth block is about the relationship with the Work and Security Act. Then I have several points in the fifth block. I would like to finish with a few final remarks. So there are six cubes. Mrs Emperor and I have the same thematic distribution as in the first term, I am probably saying abound. Many of the members have spoken about the drafting of the legislative proposal and the discussions that have taken place with the unions on this issue. The question was also raised as to whether it had been discussed openly. Among other things, Mr Lintmeijer asked that question. Mr Sietsma said it was disappointing that there was no such conversation. Mrs. Barth was wondering what was wrong with sitting around the table. She spoke explicitly about the tradition in this country of involving stakeholders in legislation. I need to correct the image that we would have trampled on that tradition. In the explanatory memorandum to the original legislative proposal, the authors at the time have already included a summary of the reaction of the Co-operative Public Personnel Centres of the European Union. 22 June 2010. It was the SCO's view that the proposal for an initiative should first be presented to the Public Personnel Policy Council, the RDP. It was ignored that the standardisation of legal status had already been discussed twice in the RDP. The first time was in 1989. Then the ROP didn't think it was the natural moment. It was then discussed in 2007 after an inter-departmental policy study had been published in 2005, which concluded that standardisation was very good. In 2007 there was almost agreement in the RDP, but at the last minute it appeared that the supporters of the unions were not in favour of standardisation. That's when the Home Secretary was on the move. It chose to retain the public law position. She did not say that standardisation would not be possible. Nor did she say that it could not be because the RDP had not agreed to it. She used her own substantive arguments. The proposal for an initiative is a response to that decision of the Minister at the time. We do not see why, after the Minister of BZK, the initiators in the Lower House could not have made their own assessment. At the time they submitted the bill, an opinion had already been issued twice by the RDP. The reaction of the Co-operative Public Personnel Centres implied that consultations with the RDP should be held for the third time. I think it is important to stress that this was not just a consultation in the view of the unions. It was a consultation that should lead to agreement, even more so. That was their interpretation of the rules in force. If three of the four plants were not to agree, no agreement would be possible and the bill should not therefore be dealt with. It may be clear that the initiators do not support that statement. The power stations have consistently maintained this line. During the hearing of the Permanent Committee for the Interior on 26 May 2011 in the Lower House it was said that the bill should be withdrawn in their opinion. They might then be prepared to discuss a government bill with the Minister, but this should not be filed until three of the four plants had agreed to it. In short, there was no room for a substantive discussion on the content of the bill because of the procedural composition of the unions. A number of members of the Upper Chamber also noted that this would mean a right of veto over the legislation in the Chamber. In the end, the original initiators did consult with the CAOP. Moreover, the same position was taken. In this sense, there was a clear sound from the trade unions. Later on, the original initiators did consult on the design of the transitional right, because that was the only specific legislative issue. In this respect, the promoters met the trade unions. We are therefore firmly defending not only the content of the bill before you today but also the right of the House of Representatives to submit it. A lot of people talked about that. Mr Flierman even started with that. Many questions have also been asked about official culture, among others by Mrs Barth and Mr Lintmeijer. It is good to point out once again that an administrative culture is not protected purely by legal instruments. Perhaps an official culture is not even secured by these instruments in the first place. But we're discussing legislation today. It is therefore good to consider the question of which legal instruments exist. A number of instruments have been said to be important for the civil service. I like to walk by them. Firstly, the one-sided appointment has been mentioned. The initiators and proposers do not really see how this can secure the culture of the administration. The one-sided appointment is no longer so one-sided in practice. Negotiations are under way on scaling up, tasks to be entrusted and career prospects. We are merely pretending at the moment that there is a two-sided contract of employment. If we really thought that the core was the one-sided appointment, we would not pretend that the one-sided appointment never took place. The second point is the oath of office. In our view, this is certainly useful when it comes to guaranteeing the culture of the public. That's why we keep the oath of office in the bill. We are even expanding it, because it will also include Zbos, who exercise largely public authority. People are going to be civil servants there. This means that the oath of office will also apply there. The entry into force of this law will therefore mean something in concrete terms for employees in a Zbo, I say to Mrs Barth. They already have a private contract of employment, but they will also have to take an oath, for example. There are also codes of conduct. In the first period, we have already indicated that we have no problems with the existing codes of conduct, as long as they are limited to reflecting existing legislation. Rules belong in the law. This week we also read a column by Professor Elzinga in which he notes that in many cases the codes of conduct have replaced and removed the applicable legal requirements. In support of the approach of this law, we have decided to include a hook in the law for a General Measure of Governance, should the need arise at any time to counter the proliferation and ensure the compliance of the law. That's why the hook is in the bill. There is also a statute for civil servants. We wonder what that might add to the codes of conduct and whether this could lead to the same problem that Professor Elzinga is already talking about in the context of codes of conduct. I understand that, above all, it is intended to create such a status from the bottom up. I am always in favour of that, but if there really is a rule, it has to be in the law. There must be democratic legitimacy. Mr Lintmeijer and Mrs Barth spoke about two elements that already came along in the first term. The first element concerns the question of whether it would not be appropriate to explicitly include the service of the general interest in the Civil Service Act. We have already indicated that we would find that an excellent addition. At the moment, we have maintained all the existing rules of the Civil Service Act. This would be an addition to that. The second element concerns the question of whether it would not be good to emphasise a good employership. We do not think it is legally necessary, because it is contained in the Civil Code. If this initiative proposal were adopted, it would also apply to civil servants. We have already said in the first period that there is nothing to prevent us from explicitly including it in the Civil Service Act. The minister was asked whether he was prepared to include it in the implementing legislation. I would like to repeat that, as far as we are concerned, there is no objection to either. If it can make any misunderstandings go away, we'll even applaud it. Questions have also been asked about costs and benefits. I think it is good to repeat that the SEO's transfer of funds shows that the benefits in the long term are greater than the costs. This is of a degree of precision that we do not always have at our disposal in many of the legislative proposals dealt with in both chambers. The only question is how long that payback period will last. In the middle scenario of SEO that is seven years. SEO indicates that with good planning this can be three years. That's been extensively investigated. We believe that the costs associated with this can largely be covered by the posts already available, namely the operating costs already included in the budgets for training, communication, ICT and legislation. They can be attributed to that. They can be filled in to a very large extent by means of already available budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u41	I think those costs are available in available budgets. Has Mr Van Weyenberg also been assured by municipalities that it is all there? We'll find out from the minister if he has the money. It will have to be advanced or financed for a number of years. How will Mr Van Weyenberg do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u42	It is our assumption that it is a question of calculating the costs to be incurred in the transition process, and Mr Sietsma is absolutely right about this, but they can be paid out of budgets that already exist for training. It's a matter of reprioritisation. I note that municipalities are very much in favour of the law and I assume that they will be prepared to find these resources in the recast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u43	Is it the assumption that, in the budgetary area for training which is not yet targeted, it is actually overestimated or should be reprioritised? 100 million for the coming years is available for this purpose? Do municipalities and provinces want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u44	There are budgets for ICT adjustments and training and they are completed when it is clear what useful training is. We propose that this should be given priority. As I pointed out in the first period, the exclusion of a number of sectors since the SEO report has meant something for costs and benefits, but it does not change the relationship between these two sectors for which this law will apply. This brings me to the dismissal law and the Work and Security Act. Mrs Barth and Mr Engels rightly asked questions about political resignation. They asked whether it was also guaranteed under the new regime to prevent political dismissal. In the first term, I have already argued that the possibility of legal protection against political redundancies as a result of our legislative proposal could be increased rather than reduced. This is primarily due to the fact that the Work and Security Act provides for a preventive test. Secondly, this is due to the fact that the foundations for dismissals already used in civil law are now included in the Civil Code. In this respect, an element of civil service law for the dismissal of civil servants through the Work and Security Act has found its way to the Civil Code. This is the legal side. However, there are more aspects to preventing political dismissal than legal ones. It is also a question of financial sanctions. If one wishes to say goodbye at any time, because, for example, working relations are irreparably disturbed, regardless of whether this would happen now or in the new situation following the adoption of this bill, it is still true that if the judge says that it is a politically-inspired unreasonable attitude, an exceptionally large remuneration must be paid. At least as important as the financial component is the public fuss that will arise, because the reputation of a driver who is guilty of political dismissal will, in our opinion, be seriously damaged. First and foremost, regardless of the proper legal guarantees, we must cherish the fact that directors know that there is no room for political appointments. The political direction of officials, in the sense that only acceptable political colours could be given a place, does not fit at all in the view of the authors of how our political and democratic system should work. It does not fit in with the very apolitical corps of civil servants that we must cherish in the Netherlands. Mr Schalk asked about the cost of the transition fee. I owed him a first-term answer to that. It is a fact that the costs incurred by SEO do not include the payment of a further transition fee. That's totally correct. In the further reply, we noted that this might be a structural additional cost. The question of whether this will actually take place and, if so, how high this cost is, we have answered that it is partly dependent on how often officials are dismissed, and so we add, after Mr Schalk's question, how often there will be a coincidence between the above- and post-law unemployment benefits and the transition compensation. It is true that Article 673b remains important, as we said at first reading, but also Article 673 (6) is important. As a result of this paragraph, costs aimed at preventing unemployment or reducing the period of unemployment may also be deducted from the transition fee. For example, longer than regular notice periods may be envisaged, whereby the employee is exempted from obligations to carry out work. There is no case law on both articles. This is explained by the fact that in the private sector there are traditionally few sectors that have a top or bottom-up WW benefit. With regard to public employers, this absence of case law also means that the WWS does not yet apply to civil servants. It has been argued that the impact of Article 673b depends on the extent to which SEO explicitly agrees that it is intended to deviate from the legal provisions on the transition fee. I think that was also the homework to which Mr Schalk referred in his speech. I cannot give the final answer here or will it eventually be. It depends on whether it is ultimately decided by the court whether it should take that form. If the judge says that only if it is explicitly included in the calculation can it be taken into account, it will certainly also call for a debate at the collective agreement table on whether such arrangements are continued and whether they are intended to be offset against the transition fee. On the one hand, we will have to wait and see what is being expressed at the collective bargaining table about netting and, on the other hand, we will have to look at how the judge might judge it if it is settled without being specified in the collective agreement texts. I can't anticipate that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u45	The Work and Security Act states that when the employment contract ends on or after 1 July 2016 and there is still a collective arrangement, they will have to apply "the transition fee as plus." I think that Article 673 has been outlawed in the WWW. Does Mr Van Weyenberg want to reflect on this for a moment, because that does not really mean that his argument is missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u46	Mr Schalk referred to the transitional arrangements already in place. The question then arises as to what is the residual right of the WWS if that transitional regime is no longer valid. Mr Schalk is quoting from that, but in the picture I have now, it is not a matter for the judge to always say that 'if not,' is not to be taken into account. I think that's gonna have to prove to the judge. The clarity Mr Schalk has read about this in the WWZ is still an open question for me. If, moreover, this is the case, Mr Köhler pointed out in his first term that he would be happy, then it is a fair observation that this will have a somewhat negative effect on the payback period. This will not change the judgment of the initiators of the law, and that will not surprise Mr Schalk. It's gonna have to turn out. In this context, Mr Köhler asked whether this would mean that you would be able to conclude collective agreements with minority unions, it is his word; he even literally said "with a minority bond'. It is not at all the intention of the initiators to reduce the role of the unions at the negotiating table, even more so: we want to give them an equal position in collective bargaining. We make a much sharper distinction between a full role at the collective bargaining table and a different role when it comes to legislation. Indeed, this cut is one of the key elements of this legislative proposal. It will not be appropriate for politics to bring into force a law with some weird minority union. Given the importance that politics always attaches to a neat answer and given the tradition of the Dutch government, that is not a concern that lives acutely with me. In this context, it is also good to stress that the conclusion of the Borstlap Committee was very explicit, and it was mentioned by a number of members that the organisation was extremely capable and that a useful and very thorough report was also produced on how to make the implementing arrangements a success. I did not end my own contribution in the first period by coincidence with a rather exhaustive quote of the final rules of the Borstlap Committee's opinion, in order to concentrate on standardisation. Then I come to a number of different topics. Ms. Huijbregts came back to the relationship with the WNT. Let me say here that I can well follow her reasoning, only that the legislator ultimately made the choice to adopt that law in both Chambers of the States-General. It is good to recall that this WNT also applies to employees who already have a private contract of employment in the semi-public sector. In that sense, that group will become larger. If the legislative proposal before us today is adopted, I can easily imagine that, should there be a WNT3 bill here at some point, some of your Members would see it as an opportunity to ask perhaps even more intrusive questions about what that means for the remaining negotiating area. In this context, Mr Engels asked about the position of Zbo's and common arrangements. How does it work with collective agreements for ZBOs and common schemes which have their own legal personality? This is indeed important, because it is undesirable that there should be too large differences between the working conditions of ZBOs, ministries, municipalities and common regulations. The idea of a collective agreement for the Empire and Municipalities sector will soon emerge. There could be a realm industry, which includes ZBOs, and a community industry, which could therefore include common rules. Although it is not in itself on the way of the initiators to choose that design, that is really the next stage we have hesitations in declaring generally binding as a solution. This is a problem for unorganised employers. It is used for this purpose in the market sector. We can well imagine that the government is obliged at its own level to ensure that the problem of unorganised employers does not exist and that it could be chosen to set up an employers' association for the Rijk sector, including self-incorporated ZBOs, as well as an employers' association for municipalities and common schemes with their own legal personality. Then you can always decide to allow certain ZBOs, to stay outside the employers' association and to agree on their own corporate cao, only there should be very good reasons for that. I will end by saying that today is ultimately about bringing the Civil Service Act into force. That is what you achieve by amending the law, Mrs Huijbregts talked about it, and Mr Sietsma asked me to look again in my words where the real pain actually lies. Right now I'm seeing simulations, myths, inconsistencies and inconsistencies. I'd like to get that straight. Simulation because we are now pretending to have a contract of employment and as if we are concluding collective agreements, whereas according to the Civil Service Act this is formally different with almost one-sided appointment in principle. Secondly, it is unclear because in some sectors it is not clear who is an official or who is not. Sometimes people don't find out until they challenge their resignation in court. Myths, because of the view that civil servants could hardly or not be dismissed, and that fundamental rights of civil servants are much more limited than those of employees in the private sector. Mrs Keijzer will go into more detail about the questions that have been asked. I also refer to the almost mythical status accorded to the one-sided appointment when it comes to guaranteeing official culture. As far as we are concerned, the guarantee of the civil service culture, which is extremely sweet to us, could perfectly well be given a place in the texts of the Civil Service Act and the two additions proposed by your Chamber. Finally, I mentioned inconsistency, because we attach great importance to that civil service culture, but at the same time have important public service tasks carried out by ZBOs, whose staff are not currently engaged unilaterally, but simply a contract of employment, and to which the Civil Service Act does not apply. We also find it absurd that we should withhold a normal contract of employment, but give their unions a right of veto over the submission of legislative proposals, at least in the case of a government bill and in the opinion of the trade unions themselves. In the words of Mrs Huijbregts, we want to normalize this. We want to normalise the position of full and equal bargaining at the collective bargaining table. We want to normalize that laws made by the States-General are of course consulted and consulted, but without a veto power. And yes, that will indeed lead to a number of advantages that I mentioned in my first term. There will be a new dismissal scheme which will apply to civil servants, the Work and Security Act. The conformity requirement for legislation will be terminated. Labour disputes are then settled not only in the private but also in the public sector by the civil courts, while experts agree that administrative law is simply less suited to solving problems in industrial relations. The position of civil servants is becoming clear, because all those who perform important public service tasks are also covered by the Civil Service Act. I refer here, for example, to the Dutch Bank, the UWV and the AFM, and ultimately costs and complexity in the transposition of agreements into working conditions into law and into administrative legal protection are falling, thus creating a positive business case. This means that the conditions of employment of civil servants will be created in the same way as in the market sector, and at the same time labour law will be harmonised where it can be done, and it will only change where it needs to be done. And that is what we really need in the Civil Service Act, which is also on the agenda today. That is the law in which we express what kind of government we want in this country. We must, indeed, be careful of the office, as Mr Sietsma called it. Mr Lintmeijer also asked for specific attention to be given to this. Indeed, working for the government is very special and that is why we do not see the Civil Service Act as a heavy burden on civil servants, not at all, but rather as something that officials can be proud of and which also gives them protection against the legislator. This requires a well-maintained law, a law that is brought to the time. As far as we are concerned, it is now high time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u47	If Mr Van Weyenberg concludes with this, I would like to ask him a few more questions. At some point, he talked about what the law means for employees who now work at a ZBO. At my question what that means to those people, he said: then they have to take the oath of office. That wasn't really the crux of my question. The crux of my question was that people who are now working at a health care agency, Mr Van Weyenberg, have just said that they now have a contract of employment based on a collective agreement. This has been the subject of collective bargaining, and that is why people now have a contract of employment. If these people become civil servants at once by this law, what will happen to the basis of their contract of employment? That basis is now in the collective agreement. I have seen that the proposers have made an attempt to maintain the legal status of officials who are normalized between quotes. The legal status regime would then be maintained if it were a collective agreement. I also think that this is a rather strange construction, but alla. I have a similar guarantee for employees of current ZBOs who become officials in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u48	This transitional arrangement, of course, concerns the need for collective agreements where they are not formally available today. A ZBO's already got that employment contract. In future, the choice of a form other than the conclusion of a collective agreement may be made, but the collective agreements that exist will continue to apply. The Civil Service Act is indeed applicable. I think that's correct. That is why, in the transitional measures, at the explicit request of the trade unions, we have focused precisely on what you do during the interim period, as long as there is no collective agreement. How are you gonna make sure that transition goes well? We have focused this on the group which still has a one-sided appointment and for which a collective agreement will have to be concluded in the near future. In any case, I would like to say to Mrs Barth that we discussed this with the unions. For the group which already has a private contract of employment, the collective agreement does not change. In future there may be another form of collective agreements for civil servants, the Empire, government employers, but that lies in the future. In my view, the collective agreement in force simply remains in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u49	Agreed. That's good to hear. Then I have a question about those one-sided elements that are linked to being an official, such as taking the oath or the integrity requirements that are imposed on people. They come into force from one day to the next for the people who now work at Zbo's, on top of the contract they now have. Or should they get a new contract for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u50	I think you're right about that. There's gonna be a law, the Civil Service Act, that's gonna apply. That is not going to happen from today to tomorrow, because there will be a whole legislative process, which you yourself have drawn attention to. I'm sure you'll get over that for a while. Indeed, the Civil Service Act will apply to them with the oath of office. These are also the integrity rules. On the one hand, working conditions are included in the collective agreement and on the other hand, the Civil Service Act applies at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u51	Let me get this straight. Does that mean that, according to Mr Van Weyenberg, people who work for a Zbo should all end up signing a new contract of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u52	No, because I make a clear distinction between the application of the Civil Service Act and the employment contract. That law applies to a person who works in the government and who does not need to be extradited in his contract of employment. The law applies. At the same time, there is a contract of employment which deals with working conditions. I am looking at the Minister, but I do not see why there should be a new contract of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u53	Mr. Chairman. If I may, I have another question on another subject. Mr Van Weyenberg said that the Borstlap Committee indicated that standardisation is a very good thing. That's true. I have read the report well and I have seen that the Borstlap Committee makes two notes. One concerns the issue of Parliament's budget law, for which I drew attention in my term. I see Mr Van Weyenberg pointing to Mrs Keijzer, so perhaps that will be discussed later. The other remark is that the Borstlap Committee finds that there is a grey area for state officials, because it is not clear whether national officials can be covered by ILO Convention 98 at all, as it provides for an exception for officials involved in the administration of the State. These are quite two strong comments made by the Borstlap Committee on the conclusion that standardisation could well be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u54	I appeal to Mrs Barth's patience. Mrs Keijzer will deal with both points. As far as I am concerned, there was not a word of Chinese at the conclusion of the Borstlap Committee. Now's the time to do it, it can, let's do it. Does all that raise any questions in the elaboration? Absolutely, for example with the introduction law and all kinds of choices to make. However, the main direction of the committee was: it can and it is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u55	Mr. Chairman. I will address a number of issues: the fundamental rights of civil servants, the budget law, which has been discussed a great deal, and the excluded groups. I will conclude with a few final words. First of all, I would like to thank you for the attention that has also been paid to this legislative proposal in the second term. In particular, I would like to thank the speakers who supported the legislative proposal. You won't be surprised. However, there were also speakers who were not convinced yet. I hope to convince them today that this is a legislative proposal which is well thought out and high quality, which provides for a good balance between the positions of employers and employees in the government and which harmonises the positions of employees in the government and in the private sector where that can be done, but also allows for exceptions where this should be done. First of all, I would like to address the fundamental rights of civil servants. In the first term, I argued that the fundamental rights of civil servants are better protected against restrictions than those of the private sector. This is primarily due to the direct effect of fundamental rights in civil servants' industrial relations. In the private sector, this depends on whether the court wishes to grant a fundamental right horizontal effect. Secondly, there is a guarantee that restrictions on the fundamental rights of civil servants will require a legal provision. In the private sector, an employer's decision is sufficient if it is subsequently included in the contract of employment. Today, the direct-acting provisions of international conventions have also been passed. They do exist absolutely, but it is not the case that they can only be limited by collective agreement. For example, these can also be limited under Article 660 of Book 7 BW. Such restrictions may, for example, result from regulations on the conduct of work and on the promotion of good order in the company, which employers in the private sector can establish. It is also possible that a collective or individual contract of employment may contain provisions on this matter. To illustrate that this is the common view in the legal literature, I refer to a pre-advisation by Professor E.P. The Jong from 1982. I quote: 'As a result of the undetermined limitation of fundamental rights in their horizontal effect, collective agreements will be able to limit the real meaning of fundamental rights for workers towards their employers farther than it would be permitted for the public authorities to do in any civil service regulations'. Let us take a closer look at the limitation of the fundamental rights of civil servants. It is not as I have heard Mrs Barth say in the second term that, without us seeing each other, fundamental rights can suddenly be restricted. Of course it's not like that. This fundamental rights debate concerns, for example, freedom of expression, the freedom of demonstration, the right to inviolability of the body, the right to strike and the right to stand as a candidate. In the area of freedom of expression and the right of association and demonstration, we have literally incorporated the relevant provisions of the current Civil Service Act into the legislative proposal. This concerns Article 10. It is a rather complicated text, but if you allow it to work on you, you must acknowledge that it is an extremely precise text, behind which the intention is not to restrict officials more than is necessary, in the terms of Mr Sietsma 'proportional'. Mr Sietsma made that clear in an interruption debate with Mrs Barth. The Civil Service Act protects civil servants. It is also clear from the fact that there is no restriction on the membership of a political party or of a trade union that the utmost effort has been made to preserve the citizenship of civil servants as far as possible. A limitation is, of course, due to the fact that municipal officials cannot be members of the municipal council and provincial officials cannot be members of Provincial States of the municipality or province for which they work. That is essentially an incompatibility, as there are more in our state law. It is therefore not in the Civil Service Act, but in Article 13 of the Province Act and of the Municipal Law. I do not want to trivialize this limitation, but it is not disproportionate either. Another fundamental right that can be restricted is the right to inviolability of the body. Article 11 of the bill contains words about this. This is now the case under Article 125 (g) of the current Civil Service Act. Officials must be searched for their work if it is in the interests of the service. Officials have no particular position in this regard either. If an employer in the market sector, for example at Schiphol Airport, not only wants to search all travellers but has good reasons to do so with some of the employees, then that is possible. I'm coming to the strike right. Mrs Barth mentioned this in her first term in the list of fundamental rights contained in the Civil Service Act. That's a misconception. The right to strike is supposedly a right of justice in the Netherlands. The only law in which you can find anything about the right to strike is the Military Civil Service Act, Article 12 (1). For 1980, there was a strike ban on civil servants in the Netherlands, but this was abolished when the Netherlands became a party to the European Social Charter. This was also the starting point of the standardisation process, which also includes the present legislative proposal. Apparently, if officials can be treated equally with the market in the sensitive area of the right to strike, they can also be treated equally with employees in the private sector in other areas of legal status. For the question of the extent to which the right to strike can be restricted, both civil servants and private sector employees are solely concerned by the case law of the court. This shows that the judge is looking at the consequences of a strike for the public interest. The restrictions that result are certainly applicable not only to the public authorities and their officials, but also to sectors such as public transport, health care, ports and airports. They too may be subject to restrictions on the right to strike in order to prevent damage to the public interest, and this is done on a regular basis. The fact that the right to strike of officials can also be restricted is therefore nothing special. That is why I see no reason to give the trade unions in the public sector a privileged position. All in all, I therefore conclude that the fundamental rights of civil servants are not substantially more limited than in the private sector. In procedural terms, there are better safeguards against a disproportionate restriction of their fundamental rights, precisely because they need to be established by law. In this context, I refer to the opinion of the Council of State, the discussion in the Lower House and in this House and the possibility of the European Court of Human Rights reviewing fundamental rights laws. In the market sector, opportunities to limit fundamental rights are sometimes part of a collective agreement. However, this cannot be done for civil servants, because the Constitution requires the limitations of fundamental rights, including civil servants, to have a legal basis. I come to the second issue, budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u56	I deliberately waited for Mrs Keijzer to finish this block. I regret, however, that this is the way the debate is going. I indicated in my term that this is not about the case. The only point I'm trying to make is that the government as an employer in employment relations between employer and employee in the public sector always has a very powerful ally to the government as legislator. These two functions of the government as an employer and the government as a legislator often run through each other and can greatly influence the legal position of civil servants. This is a substantially different position for civil servants than for employees in the market sector, which justifies the fact that civil servants with their trade unions also have a different position in terms of working conditions. I am sorry that neither Mr Van Weyenberg nor Mrs Keijzer are going to comment on the substance of my point. When these roles of the public authorities as legislators and the government as employers are interwoven, interwoven or interrelated, civil servants as employees run the risk of having a less robust position than employees in the market sector. I would greatly appreciate it if the proposers could respond to this in their second term. This point is essential for my group to assess the acceptability of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u57	In her second term, Mrs Barth said that without us all knowing it, fundamental rights can be restricted. It has also said that the government as an employer has a powerful ally behind it, namely the government as a legislator. Then you are wronging your position as part of the States-General, for that is precisely the legislator. You are all there, just like us in the House of Representatives, at the moment when legislation is in place. The fact that the legislation has to be is an indication that the position of civil servants is protected. In the public sector, an agreement between an employer and an employee is sufficient. Of course, then we should not look at the doctrine of nullity or nullity of agreements, because then we have another discussion. But precisely because it has to be done by law, protection is better. I can't escape the impression that we talk a little bit along each other from time to time. I now turn to fundamental rights. I thought that's what Mrs Barth meant. If she means to say that her fundamental objection concerns the overrule of that relationship by budget law, that is my next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u58	However, for the Acts, I certainly did not say in my second term that without us knowing it, the fundamental rights of civil servants can be restricted. We have to do this by formal legislation, so we can't do that without being aware of it. I think it is important to establish that. I also think it is important to note that this is not an objection of ours to this bill, but a concern, namely that the interests of the government as an employer can be supported by, be extended to and run together with the interests of the government as a legislator. This makes the position of civil servants more diffuse, because an employee in the market sector has nothing to do with an employer with such a diffuse role. The reason why, for example, the RDP scheme, which is abolished by this legislative proposal, was that when normalization began and the RDP scheme was introduced, it was fully aware that the role of the government as an employer and the role of the government as a legislator could interfere with each other and that this could have a very significant impact on civil servants. During the entire discussion on this bill, I miss that effect and a serious justification for the proposers that if the RDP scheme is deleted, that risk is nevertheless designed and mitigated in such a way that civil servants are not faced with a double, very powerful opponent when it comes to their working conditions and their legal status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u59	When this cabinet was created, there was a discussion about the so-called oval funds. It was an agreement between the government and employers on a government contribution to labour cost development. The guiding principle should not be that something can happen, but whether it is actually going to happen and whether it is going to stand up with the judge. The government as a legislator cannot, of course, just pass all kinds of laws and lay them down about society. For example, the De Bourbon judgment ruled a long time ago that the government is bound by agreements, even if a budget law changes or restricts the budget. In itself, the government is legislator and employer. In an interrupting debate it was just clearly argued that they are two different bodies of the same government. However, the government as legislator cannot do what it thinks is right. The government is also bound by legal principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u60	Mr. Chairman. I hope you'll allow me another interruption. With these interruptions, I am trying to be so clear in this second term that we will not need a third term anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u61	I also assume that we do not have many long-term interruptions and also a third term, because that is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u62	Exactly! I hope you will allow me to try to clarify, because this point is very important to us. I have the impression that Mrs Keijzer answered in her answer what side paths are taking. For us, the core is that the role of the government as a legislator and the role of the government as an employer can interfere with each other and be mutually exclusive. This gives the government, as an employer, a very strong position vis-à-vis the civil servants, even if it doesn't just happen, even if it has been thought about and even if it is a political decision. Precisely because it is a decision of the formal legislator, it limits the possibility for officials to negotiate their position as individuals. We are dealing with an official as an individual vis-à-vis that almighty government, which is an employer, and who may fall back on the legislator if she does not get her way. The interference of these two roles has led the legislator to choose, at the start of standardisation, to set up the RDP scheme which guarantees the position of civil servants and trade unions. These proposers decide to abolish it; the scheme disappears. That may be so, but I would like to hear from them how you can embezzle the risk that the government as an employer can go far beyond what is actually acceptable if it receives support from 76 and 38 parliamentarians and gives a place to prevent officials from being powerless against such an omnipotent government. The applicants choose to delete the RDP scheme. That's what happened because of the government's double role. What I am looking for is a sound and well-founded reply from the proposers on how they reflect the risk of that double role without the RDP scheme in such a way that officials are safe in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u63	Your question is clear. I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u64	I'll give it a shot. I see that this is an essential point for Mrs Barth. I come back every time to the fact that the government as a legislator is also bound by legal principles. The ovals are a very good example of that. Eventually, you can't just put a covenant like that next to you. "We" may sound a bit crazy here, but I say it anyway: we are there as a State General, every time it presents itself that the government as an employer I hear saying Mrs Barth doesn't get her way and then goes to the government as a legislator to get her way. In addition, as legislators, the government itself is also bound by all kinds of legal principles. Of course, it's not that one official against that almighty government. It is, of course, the official in relation to his or her trade union who must agree on good working conditions. Maybe I have a more positive picture of the conditions that apply to a government when that government is a legislator. Maybe it's okay if I just move on to budget law. That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u65	Yeah, but there's three gentlemen sneaking around here right now. One has already sat down, one still lingers and the other has raised a finger. I shall first give the floor to Mr Flierman and then to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u66	I don't know if I'd like to take over the "sneak around" qualification. I would like to make a point, which is perhaps more aimed at Mrs Barth than at the initiators. What fascinates me in Mrs Barth's remark is that she constantly wipes out the role of the government as a legislator and the role of the government as an employer, so to speak. On the contrary, I would like to distinguish these roles in principle. That is why I said earlier in an interruption: in my opinion, the government as a legislator is equally capable of restricting the rights of employees in the private sector as well as the rights of civil servants. That's one point. In this respect, I would like to continue to distinguish the role of the government as legislator. I think, as Mrs Keijzer also points out, that we should take ourselves seriously and say: we should, of course, be careful in fulfilling this role and not just making all kinds of decisions. In my second remark, I would just like to look over my shoulder at Mrs Keijzer. I would like to know how she sees the municipality's role as an employer. In my view, the dilemma that Mrs Barth thinks she sees is not being addressed by the other authorities. The municipality or the province cannot intervene in a way that is at issue in the government. In any case, these sectors will find themselves in exactly the same position as private companies are already in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u67	I shall give the floor to Mr Schalk. You're welcome, Mrs. Barth. Mr Schalk, do you agree with this or is it a completely different point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u68	Maybe it's more convenient to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u69	Let's finish this part. Mrs. Barth, a brief intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u70	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. But again, this is an important point. For us, anyone who tries to make an artificial distinction between the government as a legislator and the government as an employer closes their eyes to the real risks that these two roles for civil servants will be mixed up. Of course we are all there, but we all have our own political conviction from which we find, want or do things. Sometimes one is in the majority and sometimes the other. All I can see is that at the start of the standardisation process at the end of the 1980s, the early 1990s, this was seen as a very big issue that had to be given serious attention. Measures had to be taken to prevent these two roles from getting mixed up in such a way that individual officials would be finely rubbed in it. Frankly, the less attention there is to the reality of this problem and the less work is being done to solve that problem and to cover that risk properly, the more we, the PvdA Group, become concerned about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u71	Mr President, if I may. It is clear to me now what Mrs Barth means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u72	One moment. Mr Engels, would you like to join us on this? I see that's the case. Mrs. Keijzer, just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u73	I would like to connect directly with this. Let me make a preliminary remark. I understand Mrs Barth's concern very well. I also know that this is an essential point. However, it has also called for a careful debate. Then we need to conduct the debate carefully now. At the time when it is going to call the distinction or the intertwinedness of the government as an employer and as a legislator artificial, there is a problem. Then we do not have a careful debate. There is a very basic state-law distinction between the government as an employer and the government as a legislator. That is absolutely not artificial. There are safeguards to that. As Mrs Keijzer rightly pointed out, the legislator cannot just go ahead. Firstly, the legislator is bound by law in a rule of law. Secondly, as a democratic body, the States-General are bound to play a good role in this. This also applies to budget law. Under budget law, there is a controlling role for the States-General, also in terms of the position of officials. I am quite willing to see whether officials are in a less position than employees in the private sector, but not on the basis of a wrong accumulation of the government as an employer and legislator. It is completely incorrect under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u74	No, Mrs Barth, I am really giving the floor to Mrs Keijzer. You may return shortly, but first, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u75	Mrs Barth argues that the RDP was created precisely in order to strengthen the position of the official. That was, however, at a time when there was not yet any question of what we would like to settle now, namely a two-sided agreement. So you didn't have any collective agreements back then. They'll get there now. It is precisely the interests currently in the RDP system that will soon be secured in a collective agreement. Everything that Mr Engels has just said, I have already tried to argue in my previous reply to Mrs Barth's question. Then I come to Mr Flierman's question. Or do I have to wait a little longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u76	Mrs. Barth wanted to respond. Shortly, Mrs Barth, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u77	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. However, I was again addressed by Mr Engels. The fact that the government as an employer and the government as a legislator can run through each other is a problem which, for example, is addressed extensively by the Borstlap Committee. Pretending that risk doesn't exist is really closing your eyes to reality. We therefore consider it important that this be addressed. As the devil's lawyer, or if I only spoke here as a member of a trade union, my reaction would be: the way in which this bill has been drawn up is where the existing RDP regime and the obligation of agreement on issues that interfere with the conditions of employment of civil servants are brought into effect by law might well be an exact illustration of what happens as an employer and legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u78	Mrs Keijzer, you wanted to answer Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u79	If you'll allow me, I'd like to respond to this. This does not do justice to the discussion we had on this subject in the first term. In doing so, we have argued extensively that Article 82 of the Constitution gives the members of the House of Representatives the power to come forward with an initiative proposal. As far as I am concerned, the explanation of the RDP scheme on this part is not the right one. I would like to stress this once again. Then I come to Mr Flierman's question. Municipalities are not legislators in a formal sense. They cannot therefore limit what is contained in the Constitution, namely fundamental rights, provided that this is done by law. Only the States-General can do that. Municipalities can, of course, say in their budgets what they want to spend money on. That's exactly what hits my second block. I shall go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u80	Mr Schalk then now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I was hanging younger by now. As a juvenile, let me try to normalize the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u82	At least you weren't a sneak anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u83	I have a question on the part just before the discussion with Mrs Barth. In that part of the debate, it was mainly about the protection of civil servants. That was also Mrs Keijzer's speech. But can it also comment on the restrictions? There are, and in a different way for civil servants than for people in the market sector. You can't just say they work exactly the same. There are a number of restrictions, for example freedom of expression, which are indeed regulated by law for civil servants and which are simply included in the business agreements or something in the market sector. Surely that is a completely different basis for the restriction that is then imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u84	This means that the limitation and therefore the protection of civil servants in this sense is better regulated, because that limitation can only be achieved by law. It's a bit of a rerun of moves. I would very much like to reply to the members of the First Chamber in detail, but I am repeating myself a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u85	Once again on this point, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u86	Then let me put it this way. Mrs Keijzer sees this limitation as a protection, but it can also be a worse position than in the market sector. On the other hand, the government has an additional obligation, unlike in the market sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u87	That's correct. A government employer can limit fundamental rights only by law in a formal sense. This does not apply to an employer in the private sector. There they can be restricted in an agreement. If you don't agree with that later on, of course you can go to court. The mere fact that I say that you can then go to court already indicates that the protection against restrictions on fundamental rights is greater in civil servants, because they must be done by law in a formal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u88	Please continue, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u89	When it comes to legislative intervention in the conditions of employment of civil servants, budget laws are always discussed. I suggest first of all that Parliament's budget law is nice to me. You won't be surprised. But the link between budget law and collective agreements is limited. There is a practical and a legal side to this. Let's start with the practical ones. The rhythm in which budgets and collective agreements are created is different. Budgets have an annual rhythm and apply for a calendar year. Cao's often apply for a longer period than one year and may start or end on any day of the year. This means not only that a budget may be important for collective agreements that still have to be concluded, but perhaps more often that budgets must take account of collective agreements that have already been concluded. If a collective agreement still needs to be established, the legal importance of a budget can only be the one-sided determination by the employer of the scope within which working conditions can be negotiated as far as he is concerned. They are not binding the other party in the negotiations, the unions, at all. Budgetary laws are not generally binding rules. Government agreements and other policy documents are also not agreements which bind employees' associations. The art of negotiation is, of course, to look for openings, even if the other party proposes it as if its negotiating space is inflexiblely limited. Bonds also know, of course, that supplementary budgets are always possible. Mr Flierman rightly pointed out that ILO Convention 98 prohibits unilateral government intervention in employment contracts. This is addressed to all governments, both at the state level and at the decentralised level, and covers all forms of unilateral government intervention. Legislation is a prime example of this. It could also be done by a decision of an administrative body. The only situation in which this is allowed is an application of the adage "emergency breaks law." For this purpose, standards have just been set in the Law on wage formation. These should be "a sudden emergency situation of the national economy caused by one or more shock-by-shock external factors'. That law already applies to the private sector. As a result of this bill, the Law on wage formation also applies to the government. Of course, as I pointed out earlier, this also applies to the De Bourbon judgment of no less than 1849, which states that the government must comply with agreements, even if it has budgetary implications. Against that background, I do not understand why Mrs Barth is not simply happy with that. What is the point of continuing to argue that the legislator can overrule agreements? That's in no one's best interest, is it? Would it not be any more obvious that we are united here that there can be no question of the unilateral overrule of established agreements under the rule of law? My third block concerns the excluded groups. That brings me to the end of my speech. Mrs Barth was not satisfied with my answer on the exclusion of the police. I have also heard Mr Schalk and Mr Sietsma speak about this. We see it as no more and no less than an exception to the bill, the majority of which supported the House of Representatives. The political groups involved may have had different motives. I mentioned the possibility that the formation of a national police force would not be burdened with a change in the legal status of the staff. It could also very well be that religious feelings have played a role. After all, the debate on the exclusion of police and defence is often about the carrying of weapons and about the swordpower of the government. For those who cherish these feelings, the thought is still alive that a government that derives its authority from God cannot negotiate on an equal footing with its staff. That thought was already at the basis of the Civil Service Act of 1929. We believe that this consideration should no longer be a guiding factor in the present period, even if it was only because, in actual fact, the conditions of employment of defence and police have long been achieved through two-sided negotiations. In this context, the unilateral appointment and the establishment of conditions of employment under public law are sometimes almost symbolic. In the end, the question is whether the exclusion of police and defence is so extensive and far-reaching that the legislative proposal is no longer meaningful. We answer that question in the negative. It accounts for 20% of all civil servants. That is not nothing, but it is not so much that it should be abandoned to achieve the objectives of this legislative proposal. Finally. Not only in this house but also outside it, a contradiction has been created with regard to this bill which we consider to be incorrect. The reasons for being in favour or against of the proposal should lie solely in the answer to the question whether you feel that officials are very special employees, or whether they are in everything very similar to employees in the private sector. This is an injustice to the nuanced position that we and our predecessors have taken. When it comes to whether officials are better or worse off than employees in the private sector as regards the possible limitation of their fundamental rights or the possibility of the legislator unilaterally breaking into their working conditions. That is the area in which they operate: the government. It fulfils a function in society that is unmistakably special. I also heard Mr Sietsma and Mr Schalk speak those words. The misunderstanding that is constantly raging in the discussion is that the proper performance of that function would be secured by a unilateral appointment and conditions of employment laid down by public law. As far as I am concerned, that is not only a misunderstanding, but also a myth. It is a symbol of something special, but its guarantee function is not great. Ensuring the proper functioning of the public administration must be sought in the Civil Service Act. Those who are concerned about whether these safeguards are sufficient must discuss the content of the Staff Act. However, we must get rid of the idea that the Civil Service Act merely contains some kind of working conditions and that the legislator should not start thinking about them until the trade unions have agreed to a legislative proposal. The Civil Service Act belongs to all of us. In the end, the legislator should be free to decide on the rules governing the interaction between government employers and employees. The present legislative proposal creates the necessary conditions for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u90	I had just asked Mr Van Weyenberg what the authors thought of the observation made by the Borstlap Committee that government officials are in a grey area by this bill because they are under ILO Convention No. 98, if they are involved in the administration of the State, cannot be covered by ILO Convention No. 98. Mr Van Weyenberg then referred to Mrs Keijzer, but Mrs Keijzer did not reply. I'd like to give her a chance to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u91	I'll certainly do that. We give officials more than the ILO conventions have to. We give them an equal place in negotiations on terms of employment. The ILO Conventions do not oppose doing more than is required. So we are looking at this in a different way than Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u92	It's not about how I look at it. It is the Borstlap Committee that indicates that the group of state officials covered by this bill..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 98 officials serving the administration of the State expressly exclude from the functioning of ILO Convention No. 98. I can take the report and quote it out. It is therefore the Borstlap Committee which notes that this means that the state officials end up in a grey area. I would like to hear what the authors think and how they intend to deal with this grey area. It would not be good for some of the state officials to find themselves in an unclear legal position as a result of this bill. I hope that the proposers will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u93	I would almost like to ask whether the text can be read. Then I can hear exactly what Mrs Barth means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u94	If it's a short quote, you can. However, I see pages full of text. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u95	It's a short quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u96	Mrs Keijzer, please continue while the quote is being looked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u97	Of course, I don't know what Mrs Barth's going to read. However, if there are elements which do not apply to officials of the State, this is without prejudice to the fact that the legislative proposal before us makes it quite clear what the legal status of state officials is. 80% of them will be covered by a two-sided contract of employment. The conditions under which they must do their work are laid down in the Civil Service Act. In this way, we believe that there is a very beautiful and complete set of rules in the legal position of state officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u98	Mrs. Barth, you've been asked for a quote. My question is to keep it short, to a maximum of two or three sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u99	There's two of them, Mr. Chairman. It's on pag. 51 of the Borstlap Committee's report. To be honest, I had assumed that the authors had read it as well, because they quoted it last time. It says: "This grey area is due to differences in interpretation about the scope of ILO Convention No. 98 and ILO Convention No. 151 is possible. The ILO's Committee of Experts asks whether an official is responsible for the administration of the State to determine whether or not it is responsible (only) under ILO Convention No. This is not the case with the ILO Convention No 151, but the ILO Convention No 151. 98 shall apply.' There is therefore a grey area, which is about whether national officials can be covered by the scope of ILO Convention No. 98, because officials in charge of the administration of the State in that Convention are explicitly excluded from ILO Convention No. 98, that's about collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u100	Then what I indicated earlier is true. ILO Convention No. 151 regulates much less than ILO Convention No. 98. Perhaps there are certain parts of that treaty to which this applies. I have the report in front of me now, but I can't reproduce which parts that would be. But even if I did know that by now, the question remains how the status of state officials is shaped. And that is what I said in my first reply to this interruption by Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u101	Mrs Barth, you may ask a very short question. Furthermore, you will have to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u102	I can only conclude that there is a lack of clarity as to the extent to which this bill complies with international law. I am sorry that we cannot resolve this in this debate. It's supposed to be. However, I have also asked a question which is attached to this. It was about the application of the zero line. I would also like an answer from the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u103	Mr President, I did not understand the previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u104	I heard the words "the application of the zero line."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u105	In my second term, I drew attention to the possibility that, thanks to the way in which the working conditions are being dealt with, the officials covered by this bill could not be more affected by the zero line and the officials excluded could be affected by the zero line. Moreover, that is not a position of my own, but that question is also raised in the Borstlap Committee's report. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u106	I just got handed over exactly what I just said. It is always nice to note that your feeling and knowledge of the legislation are based on such a treaty. Article 6 of the Convention states that the legal status, if it does not derive from the Convention, is as stated in the Civil Code and the Civil Code. I therefore do not share Mrs Barth's conclusion that it is not clear how these treaties relate to Dutch law. Then I come to the question about the zero line. In my answer in the second term, I indicated in general terms the consequences of the budget law of the States-General for the position of officials. I didn't mention the word "zero line." However, I have made it clear that you cannot adopt laws on budgets, which are laws on zero lines that have consequences for individual positions of civil servants. Can decisions be taken in budgets to cut back? Yeah, I'm sure. But the discussion about how this reduction is achieved then leads the minister in question with his official organisation, and that cannot affect the individual position of an individual official. However, this is no different under current law. I hope I have given Mrs Barth such an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u107	Thank you, Mrs Keijzer. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u108	Madam President. I have followed the debate with great interest and with great appreciation for the initiators. As far as I can see, they have given a correct answer to all factual questions. As far as many of the questions that have been put to us all are concerned, I will therefore be in agreement with the answers already given. The proposal before us is not a proposal from the cabinet. In response to an interrupting question, I stated in the first period that, if it had been, it would probably have been another, more limited proposal. It would probably have been limited to the right of dismissal, as we intended in the coalition agreement. However, this is the proposal as it stands, and I have already said that I want to leave it to the Chamber. That would be my advice, pointing out that 'judgement chamber' sometimes has the load of 'warm recommended', whereas I now, having heard in particular the struggle of some senators in the first term with this subject, with 'judgement chamber' really mean that I hope that this Chamber of reflection will also have its own judgment based on the considerations which it itself has put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u109	We always do, Minister. We always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u110	Certainly, certainly, but I am looking, for example, at your group colleague, Mrs Huijbregts, who said that there is a great incompatibility between normalising top incomes in the public sector on the one hand and the proposed standardisation on the other. That is separate from Mr Köhler's comment that you can ask yourself whether this incompatibility is there. But if there is one for the VVD, as I have already replied in the first term, I cannot help it, because limiting the top incomes is in the Official Journal. So if there really is incompatibility, which is not my belief, then it is up to the VVD to weigh it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u111	I would like to thank the Minister for his advice on how we should assess a legislative proposal. I think I can do that. I asked him what his basic attitude to this proposal was. If this is adopted, there will still be a lot of legislation, where he will have to take the lead, lead and so on. I don't get the impression from his reaction "it's up to the Chamber" that he's implicitly saying it's hot recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u112	No, that impression's true. I say that the verdict is ultimately up to the Chamber. But the Chamber is now coming up with different struggles at different points. Since the groups of the Christian Union, the SGP and others, for example, asked a question about the scope of the law, I have to say that the House of Representatives is speaking to the initiators on behalf of the House of Representatives: that scope is not due to a substantive justification, but to the fact that we could not follow Mr Slob's reasoning; we have decided that it was effective to exclude the police in this case, however, because we were given signals that the group would not otherwise support it. This means that an initiative legislative proposal adopted by the House of Representatives is before us, as Mr Schalk said, and the initiators say: when discussing its scope, it is noted that there are different views on the basis of its justification. The CDA spokesperson also asked about this. This Chamber must take that into account in its assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u113	I think I've asked some pretty simple questions, because I can't ask any other questions. I asked the Minister whether he would take the lead, how he would do it and whether the preparations were already in the scaffolding or in the fridge. I would like an answer to that. I know what I said. So we do not need to analyse this together again. I would like an answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u114	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u115	I can't rule out the Minister coming up on it, too, but otherwise I might forget. In my second term, I indicated that I have the impression that the Minister could have become less enthusiastic about the legislative proposal in the House of Representatives on his way here and here following the debate. Is that impression correct, and if so, how did that happen? I hope not through the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u116	Let me say first of all that I am also listening to the arguments put forward here. Several senators criticize the scope of the law. If I follow the debate on this, I have to say that the answer to the question why the AIVD and the security service do, and the STUD and the police are not covered by this law, is not one coherent argument. This means that, if the proposal were to be adopted, I would have to deal with the implementing laws with a law adopted by the States-General, in which the debate on the scope indeed provides a procedural answer, but not a fully supported substantive answer. I would have preferred there to be agreement in the Second and First Chamber on the substantive justification for the scope of the initiative law. That's clear. That is therefore an affirmative answer to Mr Engels' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u117	If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: not everything in this law is logically in line; in part it is also the result of a political compromise. But what does he actually say about that? Isn't that true of almost every law that comes before this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u118	I've been through a number of initiative legislative proposals. In general, the legislative proposal defended here by the initiators on behalf of the House of Representatives is ultimately supported by a substantive justification for its scope. We have just heard the initiators, for example, answer the question of why the police are not included: that is the result of the decision-making in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u119	What does the Minister say about that? After all, the following is often the case with a legislative proposal, whether it is an initiative proposal or a government proposal. In part, this is first submitted to the Lower House, where the proposers think it is a logical whole. In order to get a majority, a few compromises are added, which are not entirely logical, but which are also not entirely at odds with that bill. The whole thing will then come before us. We can only say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u120	Yeah, that's right. The first term of the First Chamber showed that a number of senators, in part even the parties of the initiators, were critical of the justification of the scope of the law. I have already said in my reply that I cannot be helpful because this is just a fact. I'm just saying that to color my advice "judge chamber." I mean sometimes in a different context: fantastic! Here I say: you will have to weigh that up yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u121	That is what the Minister is saying: I have mixed feelings about it. But that was clear to me a long time ago, given his input. However, the question, not from me but from my colleagues, is how the Minister sees it when it comes to further implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u122	I'll get to that. I'm gonna answer that now. I have sufficiently colored how my advice "judge chamber" should be read. I now come to the most important question, namely how I will deal with it in future when it is adopted and ratified in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u123	It seems that Mr Schalk's question has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u124	If the Chamber has come to a vote, I will have to come up with a proposal as soon as possible but not later than three months on how the cabinet will deal with ratification, in accordance with the instructions on the ratification of own-initiative proposals. Part of that procedure is that I make a proposal to the Council of Ministers. Since the judgment has been given to the Second and First Chambers, Mr Engels has been given an early ruling on that point, it is reasonable that it should be signed and challenged. I have to add the following. It seems that the Chamber is not yet aware, but yesterday, on 24 October, I received a letter from the trade unions' lawyers announcing that I would like to bring an interim action on this matter so that I may wait for the draft law to be signed until the interim proceedings have taken place. That is why I do not want to add anything to what I said earlier. I'll keep that up, but the Chamber will understand that I need to talk to the state attorney about the position of the Empire in that interim injunction. I don't want to add anything to that right now. I see Mr. English sneaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u125	He's sneaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u126	For the record, the Minister now says: I myself, as a member of the government, have no other attitude towards a possible adoption of the bill on ratification and sanctioning than I have said before. The complication is that there is now another letter threatening interim proceedings. The Minister wants to have the opportunity to discuss this with the state attorney, which I do not think is unreasonable, but the attitude of the government towards the ratification procedure is the same as it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u127	Yes, and for the historians: up to twice, a contradiction has been denied by the government, which is unique in world history. That has never happened after judgment had been given to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u128	Still a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u129	I'm probably gonna get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u130	I'm not gonna keep running away. The Minister indicated that he would come forward with a proposal of approach within three months. Can he tell us what the sequel's gonna look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u131	I'm sure the Minister's gonna come up with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u132	As soon as possible after the vote in this Chamber, I will have to come forward with a proposal for ratification, in accordance with the instructions on the ratification of own-initiative proposals. This is what we have just discussed: once this law has been fully ratified, it follows what I have already referred to in the first period, namely the submission of all kinds of amendments. A maximum of 100 laws or regulations are involved, with a cost that has previously been estimated by SEO at some 100 million, with a broad margin, also because work and security has now created a different situation. I and my successors will continue to do so for many years. I wish myself and my successors every success with that, because that is still going to get its feet in the ground. Mrs Barth and others asked whether, if the law is passed, I would be prepared to engage in open and real consultation with the trade unions on the implementation of this law and the laws on adaptation that will follow. The answer to that is affirmative. I would add that this is going to be an important consultation. My intention is to ask the RDP for an opinion on the precise commitment I intend to make to this consultation. The Advisory and Arbitration Committee of the RDP is also involved. Along that trajectory, I will do this. Of course, I will implement laws adopted by the Chambers of the States-General. Mr Flierman asked whether the cabinet wanted the government to look more like the market or not. That is a very broad, philosophical question! We do not choose dogmatically for the market or government, at least we use the balancing framework as previously established by the Parliamentary Research Committee on Privatisation/Seviation Public Services (POC). Mr Schalk and Mr Köhler also asked a question in principle already answered by the initiators about the relationship to the Work and Security Act. That law basically entitles everyone to a transition fee. If this bill is accepted, that fee will therefore apply. Social partners can agree on a similar provision that may lead to the reduction or deletion of the transition fee. The initiative will lie with the employer, as the transition fee will initially be higher than the applicable rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u133	With an apology, I respond to a little secondary, but I would like to return to a comment from the Minister that he will submit his plans for the introduction to the RDP, which will then submit them to the Advisory and Arbitration Committee of the same RDP. As long as the Minister is asking for advice, I think it would be a good idea to bring parties together. But with the word "arbitrage," I always start to fear binding statements. Afterwards, that right of veto, which we said earlier, cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u134	That's a good question. That is absolutely not my intention. But I think it's good to have that advice. On the basis of this opinion, I will have to conduct the open consultation with the trade unions on my own. I will quickly pass through the open questions, because parts of them have already been answered by the initiators. This applies, for example, to what Mrs Keijzer has just said about the ILO Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u135	I specifically asked the Minister to deal with this himself. Since I did not find Mrs Keijzer's reply, particularly as regards the position of the state officials, to be entirely satisfactory, I would be extremely grateful if the Minister would also indicate how he looks at the grey area that the Borstlap Committee has found when it comes to the state officials who come under this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u136	Apart from the reference to the discussion with Mrs Keijzer, ILO Convention 98 is indeed becoming more important for the public sector. It is not possible, according to the scope of that Article, to intervene with legislation in the material conditions of employment as agreed with the social partners. There is no difference between the government and the municipalities. This is also not allowed in the current situation, given the requirement of conformity in current civil service law. In fact, that is in line with what has just been said, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u137	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I'll get an answer, but not to the question I asked. ILO Convention 98 states that officials involved in the administration of the State cannot be covered by that Convention, whereas if this bill is adopted, some of the state officials will be covered by that standard. These are officials involved in the administration of the State. If they are normalized, the applicants claim that they are covered by ILO Convention 98 in their response. The applicants have indicated this on several occasions. But ILO Convention 98 itself explicitly states that officials involved in the administration of the State are excluded from that Convention. That is why the Borstlap Committee says that these officials end up in a grey area, because it is no longer clear whether they are covered by ILO Convention 151 or ILO Convention 98. We in the First Chamber are also really there to pay particular attention to whether legislation is in conformity with international conventions. The Borstlap Committee notes that a grey area is emerging. I think it is important that the parties defending this bill indicate how they look at that grey area and under which treaty the state officials covered by this bill will be covered. Are they covered by ILO Convention 151 or ILO Convention 98? I think it is important that this is clarified in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u138	I will try to make a contribution to this, as Mrs Keijzer did just now. That ILO Convention has no direct effect. However, the European Court of Human Rights takes that Treaty into consideration in order to reach a ruling. In this way it has a pass-through, and it will also have a pass-through for the Dutch court. In that sense, that's an assessment. That's all I can add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u139	I don't think you can get much more out of it, Mrs. Barth. You asked your question in detail. You will be able to explain something very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u140	I would be very grateful if we could get a written reply to this before we vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u141	I do not know whether I can add much to what I have already said in that letter. But, of course, I will send what I can put on paper to the Chamber before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u142	You have 14 days to do so, because we will not vote on the bill until 8 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u143	Thank you. I'm sure it'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u144	If the Minister promises that letter, can he also answer the question of what exactly are officials responsible for the administration of the State in his interpretation? Is that also the doorman at the Ministry, or is that a much more limited group? I think that's an interesting question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u145	That's what I'm telling you. On the issue of good civil service, I share the answers of the initiators. The same applies to the answer to zero line questions. Moreover, this is often the case in the market sector: a company may end up in a situation where the management of that company decides that there is no room for improvement in working conditions. This does not prevent collective bargaining between employers and employees. It is more than just wage developments, and it is also true of civil servants, which remains so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u146	Once again, I get an answer to a question that I have not asked. Maybe the Minister can take that answer with him in the letter. We all agree that there are zero lines imposed on civil servants; I have listed how many times that has happened since 1997. So it is possible that this will happen. The opinion of the Borstlap Committee states that there is a risk that a difference will arise especially for state officials if this bill is adopted. Some of the state officials will then be covered by this bill and some will not. This again has to do with the ILO Convention 98, which provides for real collective bargaining. According to the Borstlap Committee, the result of real and open collective bargaining can never be a zero line. We can do that for the officials who are not covered by the bill. So that could mean that one state official will fall under the zero line and the other will not. I asked the Minister whether he shares the conclusion of the Borstlap Committee and how he appreciates that difference. Does he consider it desirable that the secretary of the Minister of the Interior should come under the zero line and not that of his colleague in the defence sector? Or no, the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u147	It is clear, because you have raised this point before. You said the secretary of Defense did and the other one didn't. Or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u148	I started addressing the subject of the scope of the law. I have noted that there has indeed been a cut between departments and I have indicated that this is part of the political choice that has been made. Mr Köhler said at that time: we are used to that here; it happens all the time. All I have said is that you must take that into account in your assessment. But, of course, the present proposal for an initiative means that there is a different legal status for defence personnel than for V and J staff. You can't say in advance that that will be more beneficial to one or the other. However, this is a consequence of the choices made by the Lower House by excluding a number of categories. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u149	But what do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u150	I've given my appreciation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u151	I think you should do it with this, Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u152	You'll have to take that into account in your assessment. Mr Köhler said that we are used to that. We'll wait and see. A further question has been asked about the resignation for political reasons. In fact, an adequate response has already been given. I agree with that. The same applies to Mr Schalk's question as to whether the Civil Code also applies to conscientious objectors. The answer to that is affirmative. Among others, Mr Schalk and the GroenLinks spokesperson pointed out that there were concerns about transition costs. I have already said that at BZK we do not now have an occasional 100 million to cover these transition costs. In the drafting of the Adaptation Act, it will have to be seen that these costs will have to be incurred somewhere. Moreover, I share the view of the initiators that part of it will be absorbed by the available training budgets, which will not require dramatic cuts in the tasks of public bodies in this area. Anyway, we're gonna have to face those costs when they come forward. However, I have made it clear that BZK does not have a pot of money to cover those costs on the spot for everyone. Some of Mrs Barth's questions have already been discussed in the event of interruption. Do I intend to maintain the union position in the collective agreement? In any case, I am trying to ensure that the unions have a very serious position and perhaps even obtain it because they can now engage in two-sided collective bargaining. If this initiative law is adopted and ratified, I am prepared to enter into open consultations with the unions. As I have said, I will be advised in advance on my commitment to this. We'll do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u153	In fact, I asked only one main question in the second term. I have taken a little too long on this, but my question was nevertheless quite easy to answer by the Minister. My question was in line with Mrs Barth's. In case the Minister considers that he has answered my question with the answer to Mrs Barth, I would like to ask a follow-up question on the new form of the consultation. The Minister just said that he would like to give the unions a serious position in drawing up collective agreements and that he would like to consult them on this subject with a view to reaching agreement. However, my question was much more focused. You could also transfer the current rights under the current regime straight to the new situation, because you could also shape the collective bargaining agreement in such a way as to seek agreement with the majority of power stations and otherwise not conclude a collective agreement. My question was whether, in consultation with the unions, the Minister is trying to bring the old legal position of the unions fully back into the new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u154	I think that's too precise a question to answer in the affirmative. The purpose of the present initiative proposal is precisely to replace the one-sided appointment with a two-sided contract of employment which is also governed by collective agreement law. When the implementing laws are being drawn up, I will, of course, be working for a very strong position of the unions. However, I cannot guarantee in advance that that position will be one-on-one the same as under the current regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u155	You cannot guarantee the outcome of your consultation with the unions, but you can still commit to what you are striving for? Nothing in the law and nothing in this initiative proposal prevents you from independently shaping the structure of the collective agreement you are about to hold. This could be accompanied by an organized consultation in which the unions have the same position as they are today. You don't have to do it, but you can just promise that you will strive to maintain that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u156	Let me say for a moment that I am trying to set it up in such a way that the unions will have a very serious position in this regard. As I have said, I would like to be advised on this before I enter into that open consultation with the unions. I do not want to say in advance that this will be exactly the same position, for example, where there could indeed be a veto position as Mr Van Weyenberg said. I cannot say now that this is being copied one-on-one, because that would also undermine part of the present proposal. I see the initiators nodding now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u157	I think this answer is clear, Mr Köhler. I give the floor to Mrs Barth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u158	I had asked the Minister how it was given that the RDP regime would disappear by this law to relate to Article 6 of the European Social Charter. Could the Minister please comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u159	If I do send a letter, I will return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u160	So that comes back to the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u161	Yes. That is not an open invitation to ask ten more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u162	I'd like to look forward to that letter. I had already asked the Minister a number of questions in the first period, which I do not now receive an answer to in the second period. I'm gonna try again anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u163	I'd like to put it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u164	I had asked the Minister what he thought about the fact that municipalities had indicated that they would end the organised consultation locally if the legislative proposal were adopted and that local authorities had indicated that they would no longer want to negotiate collective agreements with the trade unions and that they would then move it to the works councils. I also asked a question about the finances. The Minister stated in the written reply that the 100 million could be covered by savings on equipment costs. I have asked the Minister to say that this is not happening and that no jobs will be removed in order to make money available for the implementation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u165	Could all that still be in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u166	No, that's gonna be a little crazy. Let me try to answer as much of that as possible here. I agree with Mrs Barth that the introduction should not be at the expense of employment. I honestly don't expect that either. I also agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's response to this point. The funding from the management and the equipment does not explicitly mean that jobs will be lost to finance the transition. This means that employers can reschedule within existing equipment budgets, including the training budgets mentioned above. By way of illustration, a significant part of the expected transition costs consists of staff training costs for the implementation of the legislative proposal. The cost-benefit analysis of 2011 has already taken into account that employers can cover most of these costs within existing training budgets. I think that will respond to Mrs Barth's concern. I don't recognize the image that the municipalities wouldn't want to hold any more consultations. I don't see that either with other government employers. I do not know any concrete examples of this either. I cannot imagine that for the sake of the process either. They are already carefully preparing to conclude collective agreements after the normalization of legal status. So I didn't get those signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u167	I was not talking about collective bargaining. I was talking about organised consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u168	I have no indication that they would not like to have collective bargaining with the trade unions in there but would like to make collective agreements with works councils. That is Mrs Barth's statement, if I understand correctly. I don't know these examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u169	It was two different questions. Municipalities would have indicated that they would like to stop the organised consultation. Other local authorities have indicated that they want to shift the collective bargaining from the trade unions to the works councils. My question was: what does the Minister think of that? Does he think it is a desirable consequence? Does he think it's worth it? Or is he prepared to enter into consultations with the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Councils in order to make it clear to them that this is not the intention and that it is important that after the adoption of the bill, the trade unions remain fully in the position of the local authorities in order to be able to hold collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u170	The latter is the case anyway. For both cases presented by Mrs Barth, I have not received any signals that it would be a structural problem. I am happy to undertake to raise this issue in a subsequent consultation with the UNG and to remove these concerns. The same applies to the Union of Water Councils and the Interprovincial Consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u171	Mr Schalk, I would like to say a brief word about time, because the Minister has another appointment at 6.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u172	A very important one, Mr. Chairman. With you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u173	I will be very brief, Mr President. Mr Van Weyenberg did not answer a question from me, but the Minister did quite frankly, namely that after standardisation officials are covered by Article 681 of the Civil Code. The termination of a contract of employment could therefore be regarded as manifestly unreasonable if this were to happen because of the mere fact that an employee invokes conscientious objection. Thus, if civil servants are included, conscientious servants can no longer be dismissed. Is that a good conclusion from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u174	Yes, and I also refer to the conclusion in Mr Van Weyenberg's reply, because I think it was correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u175	I have a small and big question for the Minister. My little question is about the 100 million. It comes from the post for study costs, which is usually used together with the unions. This is a question of coordination between employers and employees. How does the Minister expect this commitment to be discussed now that the unions are so distant from this law? That was my little question, Mr. Chairman. Can I put my big one to the minister right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u176	You can keep that short, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u177	Yes, I can keep it very short. The Minister has responded as a ruler to this law from the Chamber. I listened to that very carefully. But he can also look at it as an employer who is confronted with the workload, costs and everything else that results from this law? Can he give an impression of his feeling as an employer in relation to the urgency behind it? Would he like to give his opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u178	I'll start with the small question about the costs. It may be another job to seek cover in consultation with the trade unions. This job is divided over many chessboards, because it has to be taken care of by all employers and often also locally. I think they'll come out eventually. Then there's the other question. I stand here as an advisor to the States General on an initiative legislative proposal. I'd like to confine myself to that role. In this role, I must point out that this is a long journey that has been worked hard by several people. In the Lower House, a strong, rather broad majority supported this bill. We await the judgment in this Chamber. If her judgment is also positive, it seems to me and my ministry to implement the laws resulting from this initiative law. I'd like to limit myself to that. In doing so, I have answered the specific questions. I can conclude with the point I have just made, namely that the adoption of the law would, in a way, be the end of the process for the initiators, but that there will still be a whole process before the implementing laws begin. That's gonna get picked up. Once again, my compliments to the initiators for all the work they have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u179	I will close the debate in a moment, but I will return to the Minister first. He's given a letter on a number of cases. This bill will be voted on on 8 November. This is not going to happen next week, because we will have the General Political Reviews, which makes it difficult for the political groups to discuss this bill in advance. That is why the vote will not take place for 14 days. My kind request to the Minister is to ensure that Members of Parliament have the promised letter by Friday, 4 November at the latest, so that they can take it with them in the group discussions they have on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u180	I think that's a reasonable question. I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-eerstekamer-11.u181	I'm here to deal with the bill. I do not have to ask the question anymore, but ask it for the sake of completeness. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? The answer is yes. I propose that we vote on the bill on Tuesday 8 November.
