ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. We've had an AO on the renovation of the Binnenhof. It showed that there are still many uncertainties. There is no programme of demands yet, there is still consultation with local residents and entrepreneurs around the Square. We have asked for a variant with partial opening of the Binnenhof, so a phased renovation of the Binnenhof. That's why I have the next long motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the preferred version of the cabinet, the Binnenhof as a whole must be closed for five and a half years;]] [[noting that this will have a major impact on the public, local residents and entrepreneurs around the Binnenhof, and that no consultation has yet taken place between the National Real Estate Company and those involved;]] [[noting that no definitive programme of demands has yet been drawn up in consultation with the residents of the Binnenhof;]] [[noting that the Hague City Council indicated by means of a motion that a variant of phased renovation with partial opening of the Binnenhof would be preferable to the variant of five and a half years of complete closure (preferred variant);]] [[Whereas there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the total cost of conversion and the additional costs of a phased conversion compared to the preferred variant are not conclusively substantiated;]] [[Whereas, in addition to benefits for the public, local residents and entrepreneurs around the Binnenhof, a phased renovation may involve significantly less risks of delay and cost overrun than the preferred variant;]] [[invites the government to develop the variant with the phased conversion (variant 2) in the further development until consultation with the residents and the municipalities shows what the final viable variant will be,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees, Mr Bishop, Mr Van Raak and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS opts for the cheapest and fastest solution and supports the Minister. But we do have one additional wish: whoever grows his house often has a one-off and comparatively very advantageous opportunity to do it really well. That is in our case the thorough handling of the Hotel, in this house better known as the sick-building disease. Questioning the city of The Hague shows that this will not come up against any objections. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the renovation of the Binnenhof is an excellent opportunity to opt for new construction rather than renovation of the part of the Lower House designated by Hotel;]] [[Whereas new construction, also according to the validation of Twynstra Gudde, offers the possibility to resolve users' complaints more efficiently and effectively against a limited additional investment and at least longer construction time;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into talks with the City of The Hague on the authorisation of a possible new building while maintaining the Jugendstil façade;]] [[calls on the Government to include new building of the building part of Hotel as an option in the building plans and to develop the potential opportunities and risks therein,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Fokke and Mr De Caluwe. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u4	Demolition and new construction do indeed seem very logical for that part. But if you do new construction, you could also do much higher than you do now. When I look at the press tower and beyond, I see that there are already many tall buildings. With a high building you can think of relocation or a very different temporary phasing. Could that option be taken up as far as you are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u5	I hope that the Minister will study all possibilities in full. We've been there with a number of experts and they've looked into it. The courtyard does not need to have the current dimensions, but could be a bit narrower. The intermediates could indeed be a complete floor higher, without making the whole building higher. You can even place an extra part, so you suddenly get a lot more space. It could even preserve the Jugendstil elements. However, I think it is up to the Minister to examine what is reasonable. In any case, I would like to take a thorough look at this building, which has few residents who are happy with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants to draw attention to project management, both in terms of time and risks as well as money, this project has everything to do with making a nice overrun. The CDA absolutely wants to prevent that. The renovation will have to be completed within budget and within time. Although there is a post unexpected of 20% and the BIM method is being worked on, we are not yet satisfied. We have considered making the proposal to give the renovation the status of a major project, but it does not really meet the criteria laid down by the Court. However, we would like to propose an à la large project approach. We are thinking of an approach whereby the committee for Housing and Rijksdienst is informed on project management aspects, results, organisation, planning, information and costs on a quarterly basis. In a letter, will the Minister make a proposal to the Chamber, indicating how he intends to control the project, what role the Chamber has in it, what information the Chamber will receive and how we will ensure that this project is completed within the criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr. Chairman. I get to kick off this marathon day on behalf of the PVV. I would like to say right away that it is very strange that we have gathered here tonight until deep into the night, so that people could not even follow that, while this building is completely empty tomorrow and everyone, including the staff, is at home from this ridiculously long working day. I think we should think about what we are doing here. If you demolished the Hotel, there would suddenly be a huge opportunity, namely to place a lot of square meters of office building there. And that in a prime location: next to the Lower House in the center of The Hague. That possibility has not been investigated. Mr Krol's motion calls for an investigation. I just asked him about the possibility of building a higher building here, with many more square meters. That can be very profitable. I'm sure there are some market players interested in that, especially if the Chamber wants to rent that building. My group considers the costs of renovation estimated for the entire renovation to be really absurdly high, almost half a billion. We find that really unacceptable. We believe that the possibility should be explored for a market participant to set up an office building there, which we can then rent. Mr Krol's motion could also bear that in mind. That is why I am considering supporting it with a positive opinion to my group. I have a motion of my own that is very similar. I doubt I should submit it, but I will, because I can always withdraw it if the minister agrees to take it with me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the demolition of the Hotel building has been investigated, but not the option of setting high-rise buildings there;]] [[Whereas high-rise buildings may create new opportunities for temporary housing of the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the government to investigate demolition and high-rise construction of the Hotel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u8	Finally, I would like to say that the façade, a municipal monument, is not sacred as far as we are concerned. The plans don't always have to be preserved, if that's too expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr. Chairman. This is the conclusion of a series of debates we have had on the renovation of our own home. It is time we took a final decision on this. I am therefore very surprised at the motion tabled by D66. We've been getting maps full of information from the minister. Detailed planning, advisory reports and financial information were sent to the Chamber and, the day before yesterday, at the request of, among others, D66, something was even sent to the Chamber. That's really incredible information, as far as you can give it four years before the start of the renovation. I really wonder what else D66 needs before it can finally come to a decision. The VVD has clearly declared itself in favour of variant 3, a short renovation of five and a half years, and there was also a majority in favour of this during the last debate. I would, however, like to table a motion to move the location for the celebration of Prince's Day during the renovation, so that the party is preserved, but the construction is not delayed by it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Binnenhof has been completely closed for five and a half years due to a large-scale renovation;]] [[Whereas, during the renovation, only the celebration of Prince's Day is still planned at the Binnenhof;]] [[Whereas a number of weeks have been provided each year for clearing the courtyard for the celebration of Prince's Day in the Knight's Room;]] [[Whereas any delay in construction work should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[Whereas, furthermore, the Binnenhof will only be partially freed, so that the royal couple will arrive in an empty Binnenhof without any public and the festive nature of the arrival will disappear as a whole;]] [[calls on the government not to disturb the renovation of the Binnenhof by accommodating Princess Day on a little festive Binnenhof;]] [[Invites the Government to forward this decision to the President of the United Assembly of the States General, so that it can establish an alternative location for the celebration of Prince's Day during the renovation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Caluwé, Mr Fokke, Mr Krol and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34293-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u10	I hear what Mrs De Caluwe says, but at the same time I note in the surrounding area that there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to what exactly needs to be done. I also note that a majority of the city council of The Hague has adopted a motion which goes against the preferred version of the cabinet. I have read all the reports and you can conclude that there is still a lot of uncertainty about the costs. I wonder if Mrs De Caluwe read those reports. I have argued extensively that there are also very big risks when you close the Binnenhof for five and a half years, such as the risk of delay. Mr Ronnes' motion is also about that. I therefore find it a little cheap when Mrs De Caluwe says that there are a lot of reports and then wonders when D66 will finally make a decision. I have laid down a variant, so that, in addition to the preferred version of the cabinet, we can also take the variant that entrepreneurs, the public and politics in The Hague are asking for. Then I'm pushed aside by the VVD a little carelessly. That's not careful, is it, Mrs. De Caluwe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u11	The variant presented here costs 50 million extra. So that variant is already calculated in detail. I see a lot of projects going by in this house. Of many ongoing projects, funding is not as neatly expressed and as detailed as here and on this basis, this type of advisory report has not been published either. These projects are still wondering how much it is going to cost, even though they are already running. The renovation takes place in four years and yet so much has already been calculated and recorded. And yes, there are uncertainties, but it would be weird if there weren't four years in advance. We have also spoken to a number of local residents, but that group is very diverse. They have been spoken to, but they are sending out different signals and they do not agree with everything. This also applies to the city council. But last year the board indicated that they were in favour of the short variant. The city council is now putting forward a motion, while we have already made a decision during the previous AO. By the way, that motion was not supported by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u12	The point is that we have not yet made a decision. However, the city council has opted for a variant, because of the public, the entrepreneurs and the local residents, and the public character of the Binnenhof. I read the report very well, and it is debatable that that variant costs 50 million more. Those costs are really very debatable. In addition, the risks have not been taken into account. That is why I ask the Minister to include this variant in the further developments, also in consultation with the Upper House, the residents, the residents here and the President. That seems to me to be a very careful decision-making process. Simply saying that the 50 million is the reason not to, I really think short-term thinking and short-sighted. There is a high risk of exceedances and the running out of time of this renovation. So that's the risk the VVD takes. I think Mrs De Caluwe should think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr Koolmees says that no decision has been taken at all, but after the previous AO, a majority of the Chamber voted in favour of the short version; that was very clear. A motion has been passed in the city council. However, it has also been indicated that we should continue with the short renovation. Now there will be a motion on the City Council's Committee on Spatial Planning. There is indeed a need for consultation and much remains to be determined, but this is inherent in an enormous renovation which is due to take place in four years' time. Of course, much remains to be done, but how much more information does D66 need to be able to take a decision now? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u14	I see the Minister is able to answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mr. Chairman. The first motion tabled, namely that in part No. 23, belongs to Mr Koolmees. It was also tabled on behalf of Mr Bishop and Mr Van Raak and Mrs Schouten. The motion contains a number of considerations, which I shall end up with before I reach a verdict. The first consideration is that there would have been no consultation between the State real estate company and those involved. That's incorrect. Consultations are taking place. There are only different opinions about the Binnenhof, which are also shared with the Chamber. I am thinking, for example, of the unanimous request made by the employees through the works councils for rapid conversion. When it comes to residents, there are indeed critical letters from the parties, for example from the Overeenkomlding Pleinkwartier. However, there are also letters from the Mauritshuis and the Hague Historical Museum, in which we are urged to opt for the short version. There wouldn't have been those letters if there hadn't been a meeting. It is noted that no programme of requirements has been drawn up. However, a cross list, as we call it, has been compiled with all users. The crosses stand behind all the users' wishes. There is also talk of complete closure of the Binnenhof. The Chamber knows that in all variants I have made the very important condition that the Binnenhof is as accessible as possible in a safe way, for example with a walkway or a visitor centre. The following recital states that there would be great uncertainty about the additional costs. If a project has ever been extensively examined in advance by several experts and if more variants have ever been examined at the request of the Court, then it is with this project. Of course, the results of these studies may be less attractive than parties would like, but that does not make them less plausible. If we deny the results of independent experts in major renovation projects, I get visions of a Betuweroute at the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u16	Two things. Firstly, my observation on the motion adopted by the City Council of The Hague...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u17	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u18	Secondly, I am lagging behind because the report on the additional costs which we were allowed to see is confidential. I can't use it here and I can't share it with the minister. However, on the basis of that report, I have come to the conclusion that it has not been conclusively demonstrated. However, I cannot say in this debate why I believe that, because the report is confidential. That's gonna put me at a disadvantage. I would very much like to talk about it, but then I have to ask the Minister whether that part of the report, which does not contain business sensitive or competitive information, can be made public. Then we can argue about costs, but we can't do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u19	Even without calling in the confidential reports, the Chamber and everyone who has listened to us knows from the previous debates we have had, why the costs would be so much higher if the other side were first rebuilt while the House of Representatives continued to work and then vice versa. That justification is so plausible that I am not surprised that several engineering firms have determined this. The plausibility is that there are additional safety risks if you work through here while there is a major renovation going on. Construction projects are risky by their very nature,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u20	But the question was another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u21	For these safety risks, I must say, 1.5 million has been calculated. There is always an amount of 50 million for the additional costs. I have seen the justification for this, and I have many questions about it, because I do not find it convincing. But I can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u22	That was indeed the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u23	I had started to list the cost component. The chairman is in charge of the meeting, but I was not yet at the end of that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u24	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u25	The first safety aspect is a building physical safety aspect, the use of heavy equipment. The other is the security aspect that you always have around public buildings where evildoers have to be kept at bay. The next point is that large parts of this building are dated, this is particularly true for the moving parts, and it is becoming increasingly expensive as they have to stay in service for longer. I call escalators, ventilation and elevators. That's what the residents of the Chamber notice. This also leads to additional costs. The fact that an engineering firm underlines this again seems very obvious to me. I would also point out that the longer a project takes, the higher the building interest is. Everyone who's had a house remodeled knows that too. If you travel longer, you will also be at that cost. The exact amounts are confidential in relation to procurement, but the fact that these effects occur is very plausible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u26	Let me zoom in on one point, the building interest. In my preferred variant, the phased variant, General Affairs, the First Chamber and the Council of State are first rebuilt. The loan will then run, but at the time that the conversion has been completed, the users will return much earlier than in the Minister's variant. The remuneration will stop and the user fee will run again. So that's an advantage in interest rates. That indicates exactly that this interest rate downfall is arbitrary. I'd like to share this, but I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u27	The largest and most expensive part of the renovation, this part, takes longer in this way. Really, building interest isn't a new or invented thing. That component plays every time it's remodeled. Now I come to the motions of the city council in The Hague which I have read with interest. In the motion of the D66 group of the City of The Hague to which Mr Koolmees refers in his motion, the College is called upon to express its preference for a renovation scenario which ensures maximum protection of the interests of the Hague in the field of tourism and the economy. I fully agree with that. In addition, the College is called upon to draw up the chosen variant with particular attention to the possibilities of making the Binnenhof complex partially accessible to visitors during construction. I agree with that. The motion does not ask to opt for a variant that costs 50 million more. That brings me to the final point. The motion calls for variant 2 to be developed. The studies made available show that this variant lasts longer, carries more risks and costs 50 million more. This motion is therefore, on balance, uncovered. For all these reasons, I must discourage the motion. In Mr Krol's motion to item No. 24, co-presented on behalf of Mrs Fokke and Mrs De Caluwé, the government is invited to include new construction of the building part of Hotel as an option in the building plans and to develop the potential opportunities and risks. I agree with the authors that the climate in the Hotel, but also the ease of use, leaves a lot to be desired. It is not for nothing that it has long since been concluded that the whole complex needs to be renovated. At the request of Mr Krol, we have had an additional investigation into the possibilities of renovating the Hotel. There are a number of serious concerns, including the façade. Mr Madlener is not very fond of it, by the way. The report says it's risky. It's a jugendstil façade. We can't properly assess whether we're getting a permit for it. The motion also states that this must be verified. Regardless of whether we want to take that risk and whether we get the licence, there is also the external expert's analysis that this will lead to additional costs, namely six million, and a four-month longer lead time. As a result of a motion, I will deal with the question of shortening the lead time on the Prinsjesdag route. That is why it is surprising to discuss a motion now leading to a longer lead time. The Room can be assured that after the renovation the quality for the users of the Hotel, as regards the climate and other usage requirements, will really be much better. However, I do not think it will lead to any additional insights if we do another survey now, as we are already at the stage in which we have to apply for tenders and permits. This choice does lead to additional costs. So, considering everything, I also recommend this motion. Mr Ronnes has asked for a great deal of attention to be paid to project management. I very much agree with him. He also asked me to inform the Chamber beforehand of the way in which it will be included in that project management. I would be happy to outline in a letter this autumn how I will organise the provision of information to the Chamber on project management. In the motion in part No. 26 by Mrs De Caluwé, Mrs Fokke, Mr Krol and Mr Van Raak, the government is invited to pass the decision to the President of the United Assembly of the States-General that the conversion of the Binnenhof should not be disturbed by the accommodation of Princess Day and that the celebration of Princess Day may take place at an alternative location during the renovation. The States-General are the organizers of Princess Day. I mentioned earlier in a debate that I think the Binnenhof is a beautiful historical location, but I would like to leave it to the House where it wants to organise Princess' Day. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House's judgement. Finally, I come to Mr Madlener's motion. I am pleased to note that what Mr Madlener was initially totally opposed to is cultivation, he is now advocating conversion, as his motion for a resolution calls for demolition and high-rise building of the Hotel to be investigated. That is an even more radical transformation of that part than the cabinet proposes. Mr Krol's option is less far-reaching, so this option will undoubtedly be more expensive and will take longer, but I should also advise against the same considerations, in addition to my absolute commitment that the hotel's ease of use and comfort will have to be greatly improved by the renovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u28	Minister, were you done answering your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u29	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u30	Regarding the possibility of demolition and high-rise construction at the hotel's location: it will of course take more to set up a very high office tower there, but it is a prime location in which many market players could be very interested, especially if the Chamber indicated that it would like to rent the building for five years, for example, while we are remodeling here. You can shield the location. It is an inner city location, but it is not impossible to build there while we are working here. So you could at least investigate that possibility, and you haven't done that so far. So are you willing to check with market players whether there is any interest in clearing the location of the Hotel and putting down an office tower there, where, for example, the Room participates as a tenant for a number of years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u31	Renting a market player is never cheaper for the government. We borrow cheaper than the market. We sometimes hire from a market player, if that's where we'd like flexibility, but I don't have the impression that there's ever an intention to leave the Binnenhof. So we do not need this flexibility. When it comes to the aspect of the high-rise building, I have already indicated that it will be expensive and complex and that it will be dangerous for that particular façade. For that reason, I continue to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u32	That flexibility seems to me very much needed, because we always have new wishes. Sometimes we want to get a lot of students in here and sometimes we want to narrow down the Chamber, which means you need less space again. So that flexibility is a very good point. In addition, if you can create a lot of value through such a top location for an office, you can save a lot of money for the taxpayer. That possibility could at least be investigated, couldn't it? There is often contact with market players. So check it out!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u33	The suggestion that you can save money by setting up a larger building than is necessary and having the funding done by a party that borrows more expensive than we do, I don't need any research; that's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u34	I would like to come back to the question of costs, because that still gives me an unsatisfactory feeling. I understand that we do not disclose any information that is competitive or tender sensitive, but I do ask the Minister to disclose the information regarding the analysis of the differences between variant 2 and variant 3, which are not competitive or tender sensitive information. That could give the discussion a little more depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u35	In fact, I did so orally, but if Mr Koolmees wants to have that on paper again at the level where it is not competitive, the Chamber can get that information. I would very much appreciate it if the Chamber would clarify today, because the Chamber knows that this project has been going on since 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u36	If that information comes to the Chamber today, I'm going to assume that this too...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u37	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u38	I think that information is important for the Court to make a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-07-tweedekamer-2.u39	We shall vote on the motions tabled this evening or this afternoon.
