ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u1	I welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service. We need the second term of office. Speaking time shall be one third of the speaking time used in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Personal Data Protection Board wrote on 20 December 2014 that in its investigation into the processing of personal data by the Tax Administration in connection with the introduction of the income-dependent rent increase that violation of Article 11, first paragraph, of the Personal Data Protection Act has been detected. This minister then adjusted some points about the procedure, but he continued to break the law. The then SP-Kamer member Paulus Jansen responded as follows. "A minister's violation of the law. However, I predict that tens of thousands of data will be wrongly provided in 2014 even in the context of the amended situation." The Minister had thus already been warned, both on the introduction and also after the first year of implementation of the income-dependent rent increase. And now there's a statement from the Council of State. The judge is now saying that the tax authorities should not have provided the information. How did this happen? The Minister has been reminded of this! De Telegraaf therefore strongly ruled this morning on the manner in which this minister acted. The newspaper wrote that there is outright lying and inappropriate administration. What is the Minister's response to this? Does he agree with that? I cannot imagine that tenants will not object now and will not ask for their money back. What if a mass claim works? Did the Minister take this into account? What are the consequences? The base of the income-dependent rent increase is the landlord's tax. If tenants ask for the extra rent increases back, then housing corporations can do the same, can't they? How does the Minister respond to that? The most logical thing is that the Minister stops the income-dependent rent increases. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the transitional year the government has allowed the current income-dependent rent increase to take effect;]] [[Whereas the income-dependent rent increases have led tenants to pay an average of 28% more rent over five years;]] [[Calls on the Government to refrain from income-dependent rent increases in 2016 and to ensure that the rent is inflation-related,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u3	So far, we've had sloppy legal treatment. There's a lot of pressure on the treatment. We got the bill in the recess. Also in the recess we had to provide our written input on radical measures for tenants and corporations. Last Tuesday, the oral hearing of the bill began. That was at 6:15. When we finished the minister's term later in the evening and it was 21.50 hours, the minister suddenly came up with changes, twice even. They were radical changes. These notes do not pass through the Council of State either. We can't ask written questions, because it all has to be done quickly. Fast and as careless as possible. Then what does the letter of amendment say that we received 10 minutes before 22 hours? 80,000 people over 65 will soon be able to get a rent increase, of inflation plus 4%, while the Nibud makes it clear that pensioners are barely making any progress. Older people only get the AOW at least two years later, they are barely indexed and in the last tax reduction they do not share either. What does this cabinet have against the elderly? You're starting to wonder. Can the Minister explain why he now thinks that older people can flow through? Where are they supposed to go? After all, they often do not get a mortgage. It seems clear to me that the opportunities offered by the rent-based approach are not taken by this cabinet. Rent increases are linked to uncertainty and a erosion of tenant rights. The SP can't support that. We see a majority in the Chamber for an extension of temporary contracts. My group wants to limit this, because most landlords should not be given the opportunity to offer only temporary contracts. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas leases must be the norm for an indefinite period and temporary leases can only be complementary;]] [[Whereas an increase in the number of temporary leases puts the protection of rentals under pressure;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to limit the number of temporary leases to the total number that a landlord involves in order to avoid excessive temporary growth;]] [[calls on the Government, in a ministerial arrangement, to limit the number of temporary leases that a landlord may enter into and to refer this ministerial arrangement to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u4	The problem of living without rights is not solved by this cabinet. Anti-cracking contracts remain possible and thus also the violation of privacy and the abuse of people as products remain possible. My group is therefore once again in favour of helping law-abiding tenants. Hence my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that anti-crackers have a loan contract and therefore live in a high degree of disenfranchisement;]] [[Whereas the Law allows for more temporary contracts but does not resolve the lawlessness of anti-crackers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no new loan contracts are concluded for anti-crackers and to submit a transitional arrangement to the House of Representatives for residents on loan contracts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u5	I have a question about that. Squatters are described as lawless tenants. No, they're criminals, because we've turned squatting into a crime. Can Mr Bashir comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u6	They are people with an anti-cracking contract; a contract that both parties have agreed to. Last Tuesday, the Minister tried nicely to explain that these places are inhabited in a very nice way. It is very strange to leave these people without rights to their fate. Now that we have so many new forms of contract with this law, it seems logical to me to bring this group with us immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u7	We're talking about anti-crackers. Clear, but they're not straight renters either. Those are people who consciously sign a contract and pay a very low price for it. That's not disloyalty, but that's just an appointment you make with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u8	That may be the VVD's opinion, but it is a fact that these people have no rights at all. Since we are dealing with this bill, I believe that we can only bring these people directly into it. If you do introduce temporary contracts, you can also ensure that this group gets rights right away. They are not tenants now, but "use borrowers"; these people are seen as a product. Indeed, they are paying less for their living space now, but I can imagine that they are willing to pay more when they get more rights. By the way, it has not been said that the rent will go up immediately. Apparently it all had to be hasty, but the first-term questions I asked all deserve answers. I'll put the Minister's unanswered questions to you one more time. Can the Minister guarantee that people will not be on the streets after a temporary contract? I asked what the Minister says to all those aldermen who point out that tackling the so-called crooked habitation is not working. Can the Minister respond to that? I have asked for the purpose of this law. What can we take care of the minister for later? We now have a bill that has to go through the Chamber very quickly, but we do not know why. What's the purpose of this? On what figures and on what data can we pay the Minister? I've also asked the Minister to break the law. Make it two different laws. Why would he refuse to do that? I also put a question to the PvdA Group, but I did not receive an answer. A motion has been passed at the PvdA Party Congress. I would like to know why the PvdA Group differs from that motion. The measures taken by the cabinet are not working. The settlement agreement failed and went bankrupt. Unfortunately, we do not have a Minister for Living, but a Minister for waiting lists. As far as we're concerned, it's time for elections. It's time for something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u9	I call Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group, who has two minutes' speaking time. With the previous speaker, I have been somewhat accommodating, and I will be with him, but with moderation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. This is the Wet flow rental market. Let us not forget to report the good news. In local politics, developing the municipal housing vision has become a subject of all people. Affordable free rental is included in that vision in many municipalities. Foreign investors are pushing to invest in affordable homes. Dynamis reports that over 700,000 m2 of commercial real estate was converted into living space last year. In short, the opportunities for flowing are increasing. It rained on Tuesday's amendments and there were also some notes of amendment at a late date. The VVD now looks at this as follows. We would like to go to that two-year contract. That just gives a little more space to deliver customization and we now understand that universities and colleges are also happy with it. I think that these contracts can be cancelled in the interim is a logical consequence. Nor do I find it very appropriate to claim a year's rent if someone is forced to cancel the rent. I ask the Minister for a comprehensive response to the Ronnes/De Vries amendment. D66 wondered why 65-plussers were spared. The Minister then suggested that large families should be spared instead, and now there is an amendment to spare both groups. That's nice, but it's not entirely free. How much does that save in earning capacity? Can we then make up for this earning capacity with Mr Ronnes' amendment to leave renovation outside the rent? What's in it for you? Then there's yesterday's ruling from the board of directors. As a result, the debate got a bit of a new dimension. In summary, the ruling that the task of the Tax Administration in the implementation of the rental policy must be laid down in formal legislation. The VVD thinks we should take care of that quickly. That's possible, because we're talking about the bill right now. However, let us not pretend that we have been sleeping on this subject. We had a debate on this on 4 March 2014 because the National Ombudsman and the College for Protection of Personal Data had criticised the procedure. At that time, we saw that the Tax Administration would be given a central role and that global income data would be provided only in cases where this was necessary. That is what we agreed to here. The SP even wanted quality criteria for the Tax Administration. Yesterday's verdict is annoying for the execution, but we can quickly restore the omission. I still have two rules, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u11	I'd like you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u12	The VVD has made no secret of its desire to introduce temporary leases. Your house must be the finest place on earth, and it is right that we protect that place. Rent protection should not, however, result in you being prevented from making agreements as adults. With this bill, we give tenants and landlords the chance to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u13	What was not entirely clear to me in Mr Van der Linde's speech is whether the VVD is going to support the amendment he was referring to, the amendment on those exceptions for both elderly people, people over 65, and families with children. That didn't make any sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u14	No, not me either. I just want to know how much it costs. That is precisely why I ask the Minister. This means a lot. We had already given 65-plussers a special position. Then large families joined them. That's twice. We have to choose whether to find a solution. I thought it was an elegant combination with Mr Ronnes' amendment. Then you can add up the earning capacity. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u15	It's not entirely clear to me. When I look at the story as a liberal myself, I see that there is a risk that we will immediately exclude two groups from the income test or test. of a rent increase that goes with it. Elderly people with €39.000 gross, who pay much less tax than people 65-min, are immediately excluded, plus families with children. I don't think there's gonna be that much of that flow anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u16	As far as I understand it, the Minister has to say if it's not true, they are not excluded from the income test, but they get less rent increase because of the skewing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u17	Something went wrong in the administration or something. The Ronnes/De Vries amendment concerns the 65-plussers, in order to keep them as was the case in the initial proposal. We had a debate on this the day before yesterday. I immediately had an amendment made, the amendment to item No. 31. That's what that's about. What's my surprise? Three hours later, there is an amendment to part No. 35 in the MPs' bus. It contains exactly the same text, but now it is called the Ronnes/De Vries amendment. Now the spokesperson of the VVD comes up with questions about that amendment, which is an excellent amendment. He does not, however, ask any questions about the Madlener amendment to item No. 31, which is exactly what this is about, but about the Ronnes/De Vries amendment. That's gonna be really weird. Is my amendment to item No. 31 actually sent to the Chamber? Why does Mr De Vries table exactly the same amendment as I tabled three hours before? That's very strange, isn't it? Why is Mr Van der Linde now asking about the Ronnes/De Vries amendment, but is he not talking about exactly the same amendment from my hand, which was tabled three hours before the Ronnes/De Vries amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u18	We'll add that question to the Minister's list of questions. I do not know what question Mr Madlener asked me. I would say: let him talk about this with Mr De Vries and Mr Ronnes. Maybe they can just file something together, or they can't. I don't have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u19	Did Mr Van der Linde accept the amendment to item No. Did you see 31? Why does he bring up the other amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u20	It may well be that I have that amendment in part. I haven't seen 31 in a while. If these amendments are exactly the same, they are probably in the same pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u21	I see Mrs Schouten and Mr Bashir standing by an interrupting microphone. I gotta tell you, I don't know who was first. I can see at this moment that Mr Bashir is so courteous to let Mrs Schouten lead the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u22	That is very gallant of Mr Bashir. Mr Van der Linde wondered what it cost to implement this amendment by Mr Ronnes and Mr De Vries. However, the Minister has already worked that out for us for a long time. It costs 13 million for housing corporations and 2 million for other landlords. That was in the letter sent to us by the Minister yesterday. So that information is now available to Mr Van der Linde. What does he think of these amounts and what does he think of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u23	We're talking about a total cost of 2 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u24	No, it's 13 million for housing corporations and 2 million for other landlords. That was in the letter the Minister sent to the Chamber yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u25	My question remains to what extent that gap is covered by Mr Ronnes' amendment. We do have an agreement with the housing corporations about earning capacity. So that hole has to be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u26	Suppose I would like to support both amendments. Because they're both still ahead, because I haven't heard that one was withdrawn. I therefore believe that Mr Van der Linde, with the information he has now, should make his appreciation of this amendment clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u27	If both cases outweigh each other, then I'm positive about it. One amendment therefore states that we are going to give 65-plussers and large families a special position. However, Mr Ronnes' amendment does restore earning capacity. If that weighs against each other, I'm positive about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u28	Indeed, I noticed that plagiarism was taking place today. I saw an amendment passing by with the name of a colleague underneath. Then I saw the same amendment, under which two other colleagues were called. We need to figure out how that could have happened. The principle is, of course, important here. Do we think that older people who earn a little more but have deteriorated considerably in recent times should also be hard hit by an income-dependent rent increase? Their pensions are not indexed and they have had to work longer. The SP Group says we shouldn't do that, leave the elderly alone and don't hit them in the wallet. I am curious to see what the reasons for the VVD are for wanting to take care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mrs. Schouten just asked for an appreciation. My answer to that was that I am very much in favour of taking care of these elderly people, provided that we can make up for this financially with Mr Ronnes' amendment. Mr Bashir therefore takes the wrong view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u30	Then I will put that question to the Minister, who also belongs to the VVD-huis. Well, I guess something went wrong. On Tuesday evening, in the middle of the debate, the Minister sent a letter of amendment to the Chamber proposing that the elderly be caught. Then there is an amendment by my fellow Members which is likely to count on a majority in the Chamber. I can't wait to see how that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u31	Mr Bashir must ask the Minister. I am not talking about the letters of amendment submitted by the Minister. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr. Chairman. I have a few small points because, of course, this is a second term. We have had the first-term debate. My first question concerns the decision of the Council of State. I'm a little confused. I have heard the Minister say that the tax authority's obligation to collect these data for the new model has already been incorporated into the law, while I have read elsewhere that this still needs to be regulated in order to ensure this in the new situation. Can the Minister clarify definitively whether further action is needed on his part or on our part in order to settle that obligation properly in order to prevent the Council of State from coming to a similar decision in the near future? That is my first point. The second point remains in my head, and I think Mr Bashir's. That's the question of how to define flow. You have a regulated market in which you have free sector tenants and allowed institutions, housing corporations. You also have an unregulated, completely free, commercial market. These are houses that are more expensive than €710 per month anyway. In my view, transit should mean, in particular, moving from the regulated sector to the unregulated sector. If you can do that, we are all a step further in the Netherlands. However, in the discussion about the concept of transit between Bashir and Van Vliet and the Minister, this continued. I think we've been talking a little bit past each other. I'm filing the next motion to turn this on a little bit more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Act should prevent the distortion of housing by encouraging over-income tenants to find another home;]] [[Whereas it is not only within the regulated rental market that there is to be a flow of traffic, but also towards dwellings above the liberalisation limit;]] [[Whereas the rents and their increase in the free sector are not limited, making these dwellings increasingly inaccessible to streamers;]] [[calls on the Government, in order to assess whether better connection between the regulated and the free rental sector should be examined, to include figures on the above mentioned type of flow in the evaluation of the Rental Market Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answer to the questions we asked in the first term. As colleagues have said, it was indeed an early debate. On the whole, we have had the opportunity to hold a substantive debate. A lot of questions have been taken away. At the same time, thanks to a number of amendments, the legislative proposal seems to be turned back. However, I do have a question about the ruling on the provision of information by the Tax Administration which the Council of State made yesterday. The Minister now states that this bill completely covers this. Would it not be wise for the Council of State to carry out another check on this? We must now ensure that we do not end up in uncertain situations in the sense that it is not clear whether the Tax Administration is doing what it is allowed to do. If it couldn't hurt, I'd definitely have that security check run if I was a minister. Does the Minister think that's necessary? Is he prepared to do so? An important point in my contribution was the automatic termination of temporary contracts. The issue of making a contract temporary is already quite a step. That has never been the starting point in the law, and we are going to apply it now. According to the Christian Union, the starting point should be that the landlord must demonstrate this in case there is uncertainty or uncertainty about the termination of the contract. In the law that is now in place, that duty would lie with the tenant. That is why my group also has the amendment to item No. 37......................................................................................................... This ensures that a check is made in case of uncertainty. The landlord will have to prove you're in the right place. If you just agree a period with the two of us and it's right, there's nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u34	I have a brief question for Mrs Schouten, because I was not clear in that amendment. If by default you include in a temporary contract that it must be terminated by the landlord, I don't think it's a temporary contract anymore. After all, if the landlord fails to do so because he forgets it or whatever, the contract goes on. Now I hear an explanation from Mrs Schouten that goes more towards an unclear situation; then you should take action. Can she indicate where the border is? When is the action of canceling needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u35	The starting point is that you simply have to cancel and that this act is done by the landlord. There can be a judicial process if that is not the case. If that termination does not take place, the contract will apply for an indefinite period. It takes an act, that's right. We believe that this is important in the context of the guarantees for the tenant of his position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u36	I understand, you can find that, but then it's obviously not a temporary contract anymore. If something doesn't end automatically, it's not temporary anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u37	If Mr Van Vliet reads the amendment correctly, he will see that we include two grounds in the definition of urgent own use, namely a two-year contract now stands for one year, but the amendment will make it two years' worth and one of five years' worth for self-employed housing. These are grounds for termination. It is indeed a kind of principle of indefinite duration, but that ground then counts as a fixed time. The standard is: we make contracts for an indefinite period of time. However, they may be for a certain period of time if you meet them in the contracts and in the grounds for termination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u38	Is that the same system as Mrs Schouten's own-initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u39	Yeah, that's right. It doesn't end automatically either. In fact, now no contracts end automatically. You just have to agree to the definition of urgent personal use. We have now included them as one- or two-year contracts and five-year contracts for independent housing units. So that could be a reason to cancel the contract. If it is complied with, it is also valid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u40	Clear. The idea behind that in last Tuesday's debate was that the landlord would naturally have an incentive to cancel the lease if he really wants to terminate the contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u41	Yeah, that's right. So it is actually also a guarantee for the tenant. It requires an act of the landlord, but in the context of care we also consider it appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u42	This is an important point for Mrs Schouten, I understand. Does the Christian Union go so far as to deny its support for the entire bill if this point is not taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u43	This is a fairly fundamental point for us. I am not concerned with the question of how we deal with it in the legal text. The technique, the way we look at it, we can look at it. The starting point that the landlord has to take action and that does not have to prove to the tenant that it is incorrect but instead the tenant has to prove that it is correct, is for us, however. That needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u44	Then I look forward with even more excitement to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u45	That is the question of 'automatically'. I would like to thank the Minister for having met them in the letter of amendment on the subject of 'families'. That was a concern of ours. Only, we don't think it's so fancy to have it paid for by the elders. I can therefore already say that I will support Mr Ronnes and Mr De Vries' amendment. The amendment in part No. 31 was stuck somewhere, I think. I have to take another look at it. The letter of amendment responds to a point contained in the amendment to item No. 26 which we have submitted. I would like to add my amendment to part No. This is why it is necessary to withdraw the letter of amendment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u46	The Schouten amendment (Doc. 26) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u47	I'm left with two motions. The first is about the information position of the rental committee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is difficult for tenants to verify whether the landlord complies with the agreement to limit the increase in the rent;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with landlords on the publication of the rental fee, for example in the annual proposal for rent increase, and that the rental commission can have the basis for this in the treatment of procedures on the level of the rent increase),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u48	I also have a motion on the income limit plus, where inflation plus 4% is going to apply. This is now well arranged for the new group, the modal families, but there is still a reduction in that limit in the air. I don't know what percentage is going to apply, so as a precaution, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of the income test, income above about €39,000 a year can get a maximum rent increase of inflation plus 4%, where inflation now plus 2%;]] [[Whereas the proposed reduction of the allocation limit from around €39,000 to around €34,000 involves a larger group with a maximum annual rent increase of inflation plus 4%;]] [[Whereas incomes between €34.000 and €44.000 are not eligible for rent payments, often have too low income for obtaining a mortgage, and there is still a shortage of medium-term rentals above the liberalisation limit;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the proposal for the reduction of the allocation limit to the Chamber first and to provide an insight into:]] [[the effects of maximum rent increase of inflation plus 4% for the group €34.000 to €44.000;]] [[the development of supply in the medium-term rental sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u49	It may be that the text of the motion is not entirely correct when the law is passed, because other income limits apply to inflation plus rent increases. If that is necessary, I will amend the motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u50	Mr. Chairman. I've got four minutes. I had 12 minutes in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u51	We assume that speaking time is used and not that of speaking time. However, I have already said to previous speakers that I am quite generous. So get started quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u52	Mr. Chairman. The draft law on the lease market contains a number of positive elements, but has not been received by the PvdA with cheers at other points. Fortunately, it seems that in this treatment we can take a considerable number of sharp edges off. On the positive side, we find the rent moderation achieved with the rent sum approach of up to 1%. This will mean for many corporate tenants that they are moving towards inflation-based rents again. We can agree that the rent will run from 1 January to 31 December. In my first-term contribution, I argued that rents should be moderated or moderated as of 1 July 2016. That argument was apparently so convincing that the Minister in his letter yesterday stated that he would determine by ministerial arrangement that the maximum increase would be 0.4% by 1 July 2016. So I can keep my motion in my pocket. As far as we are concerned, the income test in 2016 can be limited to the statutory test of whether or not a household belongs to the target group. We think it is reasonable for this test to be repeated annually. The PvdA has looked to exempt both elderly and families of four and more people above the income limit from additional rent increases. To this end, Mr Ronnes and I have tabled an amendment together. This amendment is linked to the agreement that, as a compromise, we will support Mr Ronnes's amendment, which calls for all investments relating to housing improvement to be excluded from the rent, in order to provide compensation in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u53	First of all, I would like to say to the Acts that Mrs Schouten has withdrawn from the debate. Mr Madlener would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u54	Something weird happened. This afternoon, at 12 noon, I sent an amendment to the Chamber proposing that the elderly, the over 65s, should be excluded from this law, as the minister originally intended. What's my surprise? Three hours later, the same amendment, now suddenly by Mr De Vries and Mr Ronnes, comes into our mailboxes. Three hours later. Then I think to myself: have you overlooked something, Mr De Vries, because it is strange that you are literally copying an amendment and then submitting it yourself three hours later. That may have been a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mr Ronnes and I sat together immediately after Tuesday's debate to see if we could reach a compromise. The value of our amendment is that it also seeks to provide cover, while, as the PVV does often, you ask for an uncovered cheque. We have tabled this amendment because we have been preparing it for a long time. We had to talk for a moment about how we would manage the cover. We have been able to do this by making the agreement that the Labour Party will still support Mr Ronnes' amendment not to bring all the housing improvements under the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u56	Mr De Vries talks about cover, but there is no cover at all. It is exactly the same text as the text I have sent you. You copied it, you put your own name under it, and you sent it to the Chamber. I would like to thank you, because we are talking about the 65-plussers here, so let us not be difficult about that; of course we support that. But it is very unchic that an amendment by the PVV is copied in this way and that people seem to say: look what we are doing! That's weird. Doesn't that have something to do with the fact that the PvdA simply refuses to support PVV amendments in principle? Is that perhaps the real reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u57	As I said in my first reaction, we had that amendment long in preparation. The text was already in the legislative office. So whoever copied it, I don't know. We had the intention to ensure that a proposal was also covered. It was therefore necessary to link this amendment with Mr Ronnes's amendment which provides for compensation for housing companies within the rent. That's why things went the way they did. Let's not quit. It is truly unique that the Labour Party and the PVV agree on something. That's so unique. Then let's celebrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u58	I would like to say the following in order to prevent Bureau Legislation from being put in a bad light. I do not assume that Bureau Legislation will provide insight into amendments tabled by several Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u59	At 12 noon, my amendment was sent to the Chamber and three hours later the exact same text came into being. It is exactly the same text; only the explanatory statement has changed slightly from Mr De Vries's hand to the Chamber. That's weird! I assume that Mr De Vries is going to vote in favour of my amendment, that he withdraws his own amendment out of decency and that he says: you know what: let us grant it to the PVV, because fair is fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u60	The Labour Party will decide for itself how it votes. We insist that we should be able to compromise in Parliament so that things are balanced. With this combination we have managed to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u61	It's a unique thing anyway. It is striking that the PvdA and the CDA overwrite and re-table an amendment from the PVV. In my first term I asked a question about a motion that was adopted during the PvdA Group's congress and which was not dealt with in the first term. That motion states that the PvdA Group must oppose any attempt to ensure that the rent protection is not maintained. Why did Mr De Vries not copy this motion and submit it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u62	At the end of my speech there will be another motion in which I try to limit as much as possible the damage that we also see to temporary leases in relation to legal protection. But it is true that the PvdA Group in the House of Representatives is in the middle of the reality of what can and cannot be achieved. We know that we will then have to compromise. I have tried to limit the extent to which we make concessions to legal protection in my contribution in every way. All my amendments are aimed at this. The motion I shall be tabling is also aimed at this. We are thus achieving a rent moderation, greater opportunities for young people to live in and greater care for the elderly and families with children in the extra rent increase. I count my blessings, and I will explain that to our congress with my head held high.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u63	Mr De Vries must, of course, explain himself to the Congress. What surprises me, however, is that he is here to overwrite the PVV's proposals, but not the proposals of his own congress. I can see that. He can also make a difference and vote against this bill. Then the rent protection stays in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u64	The Labour Party really has a different strategy than the SP; we are not automatically against everything. We're trying to get things done for people here. We must then take into account where the majorities are to be found. We believe that this proposal, which was already hard on our stomachs when it came to it, with all our amendments and with the motion we are tabling, has really been able to fix a lot of things. This makes it acceptable to us in the end, because there is also a lot of profit in this bill. With regard to the transfer of amendments, I say that we did not do so. I had no knowledge at all of the PVV amendment when Mr Ronnes came to me. We have negotiated and we have written an explanation that is much clearer than the PVV amendment. It also reflects our intentions much better. So there is absolutely no question of overwriting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u65	I call Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u66	No, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u67	You're not done? You made such a firm point, but you do have to file another motion. Please continue, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u68	We should like to hear from the Minister as soon as possible the consequences of the Council of State's ruling on the rent increase in recent years. Does he have any idea of the consequences? What we are not happy with is the rent increase that tenants of private landlords face. We're disappointed that the domes of these landlords didn't want to sit at the table and talk about letting in the regulated part of their property. However, we welcome the Minister's commitment that he wants to talk to the domes in order to discuss this. During his first term, the Minister spoke mainly about the non-stressing of the earning capacity of the private landlords. But if I understand correctly, isn't the rent increase inflation plus 1.5%? With a maximum rent increase of 2.5%, should there be room to spare people who already pay more than 80% of what is reasonable? We really hope that the minister in his promised conversation can achieve something for these tenants. We also expect the Minister to have talks with Aedes, the Housing Union and the VNG on how to address the costly distortions at local level and how to freeze or reduce the rent for people who have lost a disproportionate part of their income to the rent. Measures to accompany these people to cheaper housing could also help. What the Labour Party really considers crucial is that temporary contracts are not used by landlords as a kind of trial period. We think that five years for measuring that effect is too long. We propose to monitor this with an intermediate measurement. I'll file the next motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of temporary leases is intended to entice private landlords to offer more rentals and to better protect the legal protection of tenants of housing for a shorter period;]] [[Whereas fixed rental contracts remain the standard;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for temporary leases to be widely used as a kind of trial period;]] [[Calls on the Government to report in particular, in its review of the law in five years' time, whether the intended effects have been achieved and whether improper use as a trial period has actually been omitted;]] [[further requests the Government to monitor the use as a pilot period by means of the announced intermediate measurements even before the review time after five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u69	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by handing out a plume to the officials of Bureau of Legislation and lift them above any accusation. It is absolutely not the case that there has been a blackmail or that there has been a leak. That is absolutely not the case. The fact is that three hours after my amendment was sent to the Chamber, exactly the same amendment from Mr De Vries was sent to the Chamber. It's just overwritten. Bureau of Legislation has nothing to do with that. It is simply Mr De Vries who copies an amendment and submits it three hours later. Then I'm thinking to myself, is this how we treat each other? Have we sunk so deep we have to do it this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u70	If I had given rise to the suggestion that Bureau Legislation had somehow played a role, I would withdraw it immediately and apologize, if that impression had been given. I think, however, that it is mainly the image of Mr Madlener, who is frustrated because his idea had already been put on the table by the CDA and the Labour Party and those parties have made it all the way round by providing cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u71	The facts speak for themselves. I am not going to go into this at all either, because I think it is too childish for words. I just want to say that what I'm going through with the PvdA is really a low point. The PvdA refuses to support all motions, however well, of our hand. She's just refusing! Now we have a very good amendment for 65-plussers. Because the PvdA doesn't want to support that, she thinks: you know what, we write that amendment and submit it ourselves, three hours after I send it to the Chamber. I told you, I don't want to waste another word on it, but I think it's a low point in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u72	Perhaps we will, because Mr Ronnes also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u73	I think it is part of the Ronnes/De Vries amendment. 35 I should also like to say here that there is no doubt whatsoever about the integrity of the staff of Bureau Legislation. There is absolutely no such thing. The text of our amendment was fully aligned yesterday. As Mr De Vries has said, this amendment is part of the agreement we have made on this, the deal with another amendment. That amendment was tabled this morning. Later I found out that it is very similar to the PVV amendment. However, there is a slight difference in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u74	It really is exactly the same text, but once again I do not want to waste another word on it. It is the result that is at stake. We're doing it for 65-plussers. That's the point. Let's just leave it at that. I assume that next Tuesday the PvdA will support my amendment in the vote, since every letter is the same. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is against forcing flow through rent increases. It is very similar to Mr Rutte's income-dependent dried bulbs. You don't make a housing market healthier by charging it to one tenant for exactly the same properties and to the other tenant, who deserves more, that. This doesn't make the housing market healthy, but you disturb it further. That is why we are not in favour of this principle. We do welcome a little more flexibility in rental legislation, because it is now either for an indefinite period of time or nothing, while there is also a need for temporary rent. By allowing temporary rent, for example for two years, as proposed by the VVD, many more people will be willing to offer their own property for rent. That's what tenants helped with. We think tenants are also able to understand that if you sign for two years, you should be able to get out after two years. We certainly dare to do that. We have tabled two amendments. On the one amendment, namely No. 31, we've already had it. I am therefore counting on the support of the PvdA because it is exactly the same text. The other amendment, the one on point No. 7, is about removing priority for status holders. If something confuses the housing market, it is of course that asylum seekers, who are now massively entering the Netherlands, are given priority over a social housing unit while Dutch people are on the waiting list for years. The Chamber has already passed a motion in that vein to stop that. It'll take a long time. That is why I have tabled an amendment to resolve it with one line. If the amendment is adopted on Tuesday at voting time, then it is in the law and it is settled equally. The Minister doesn't want that, because he thinks it's too complicated. I hope the House will support it, because it has said before that it is undesirable. I'm asking for butter with the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u75	Mr. Chairman. The CDA has been surprised by one case in the last few days. The first surprise was that on the evening of the plenary session we received two further notes of amendment. Did the Minister want to surprise us, or even rob us, by coming up with some significant changes to the bill at such a late hour? Careful legal treatment requires timely information to the Chamber, especially now that the Minister is also putting pressure on timely treatment. If there's so much time pressure, he should've just started earlier. This doesn't deserve a beauty prize. The Council of State's opinion on the two letters of amendment is now missing. Since these are important changes, we still want to get the opinion of the Council of State, if that is possible. Can the Minister indicate whether it is possible to issue an urgent opinion on these two amendments before the vote? The next surprise was the Council of State's ruling on the provision of data for the income test. What consequences does this ruling have for tenants, for landlords and possibly for the Empire? What can the Minister say about that? I will not go into this further, as speakers have already asked me more detailed questions about it. I won't repeat it. I'm getting to the point of older people and families. The Minister has made a sudden move to trade the elderly's exemption for family allowances. Why hasn't this been shared with the Chamber before? The Minister plays two groups against each other here. We don't want to fall for that. We are not discussing whether older people or families should be taken extra by this cabinet. That is why, together with Mr De Vries of the Labour Party, I am tabling an amendment to relieve both groups of additional rent increases. In fact, older people cannot pass through. An additional rent increase will therefore not have the intended effect. Older people can hardly get a mortgage. So where would they go? Older people, like a couple of 65-plus with two AOWs and a pension, fall in purchasing power, while all other groups increase in purchasing power. The CDA is not going to confront this group with an additional rent increase that should lead to a flow that is not even possible in practice. Everything has been said about the costs. The extra cost is 13 million. These will in particular affect the earning capacity of the corporations. However, as has been said, there is some compensation for this amount in another amendment. The CDA has always been against the level of the landlord's tax and thus against income-dependent rent increase. Especially the shrinking of investment space in corporations was bothering us. The practice is that a political majority wanted it to be different. But now that there is an opportunity to relieve two main groups of people who are older and the families from these additional rent increases, the CDA certainly does not allow itself to escape that opportunity. I have one more point on the liberalization limit. Finally, on the amendment tabled by us, the question of the rental part above the liberalization limit, which is not included in the rent, remains. At least that is the proposal in our amendment. We do not make it clear from the rental agreement that this was specifically agreed between the House Union and Aedes, as the Minister said. So that is contrary to what the Minister said on Tuesday. Can the Minister clarify this? Is this or is it not a concrete agreement between Aedes and the House Union in the agreement? If that is not the case, it could be considered to support this amendment. So much for my contribution in the first term. Oh, no, I mean the second term, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u76	It is indeed the second term. However, there is another question from Mr Van der Linde. You may therefore stand still, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u77	I hear Mr Ronnes saying that the CDA is against the landlord's tax. Then, of course, I'll get the CDA's counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u78	We're against the landlord's tax rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u79	So the CDA is against that level. But what did the CDA include in its counter-budget last year to destroy that 1.7 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u80	We have tried twice in a counter-budget to cut an amount of about 200 million on the landlord's tax, but it turned out that there was no majority in favour of a change. That is why we need to ease the pain of the people who suffer from the policy by other means. We do this in this way, among other things; by ensuring that this additional increase for the elderly and families will not go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u81	To get it right in the stenogram; you are against the level of the landlord's tax. Of the 1.7 billion, you're taking 200 million, so we're still talking about 1.5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u82	Yes, that was not in the last counter-budget, but it was in the two budgets before that, but if there is no majority for that, it will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Chairman. We left a few years ago with a clear starting point: to improve the housing market and to make it fairer and more transparent. That is why D66 also contributed to the housing agreement, on which the current rent-sum approach builds. Major steps have been taken in recent years, both in the case of purchase and in the case of rent. The Minister deserves to be congratulated for that. But we're far from there. The system is still terribly complicated. There is still an enormous amount of income policy through the rental policy. That is not good for the functioning of the housing market; look at the long waiting lists and the lack of houses in the middle segment. It is also not good for the flow and for the opportunity of people to find a good, affordable home. In my group's view, the cost-of-hire approach is a step in the right direction, but I have a few comments to make. Today's rain of amendments shows that we are still pursuing a great deal of income policy through rent policy. That disturbs a lot of things that we're probably gonna have to deal with over the next few years. Last Tuesday I expressed great concern about the three-year income test. There is now an amendment by Mr Van Vliet to go to an annual test. We welcome this amendment and will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u84	Mr Koolmees says that he is not in favour of pursuing income policies through the rental policy. Basically, I agree with him, but you can see that there are pain points for families and for the elderly. We will have to change the policy to take the edge off where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u85	We agree on this last point, but income policy is also about purchasing power policy. Every year in August we have a discussion about purchasing power policy; about tax rates, the surcharges, the tax refund. We will then be paying attention to people who are in a vulnerable position, such as families with children, in rush hour of life, or indeed older people with a small supplementary pension. We agree on this, but the point is that we are simultaneously dealing with rental policies, care policies, labour market policies, local or municipal policies. As a result, we have been faced for decades with a very large poverty trap or unemployment trap. It is not for nothing that Mrs Schouten asked attention last Tuesday for people with an income between €39,000 and €45,000. They are not entitled to anything; they are not entitled to supplements, they are not entitled to income support. They do fall between shore and ship. If we want to do something about that, we need to stop sticking patches everywhere and start doing it basically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u86	On the basis, I agree with Mr Koolmees, but I think that when this law is introduced we should ensure that the space between the shore and the ship does not increase, because then more people will fall into the water.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u87	I agree with Mr Ronnes, but the point is that we always miss the opportunity to really do something about it. I refer to the revision of the tax system last year, but also to the discussion on rental policy. You'll get an exception to the exception. This is complicated in implementation and in communication with people, but its impact on the housing market is also uncertain. Those waiting lists that have arisen over the past few decades are there for a reason. That is why on this side sounds a bit of a cry of hearts: let's make it easier; let the market work so that people have a fair chance of a home. Mr De Vries also has an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mr Koolmees has all kinds of objections to the technique, but all those who are now getting an extra rent increase have nothing to do with that technique. They simply have to do with the fact that a larger part of their budget has to be spent on rent. The Nibud states show that large families, but also a lot of pensioners, hardly have the opportunity to make more money available for rent. Of course, if we change the technique, we can reset everything and re-examine how it works. But now that we do not, must we ensure that these people are spared?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u89	I now have the advantage of being both the financial spokesman and the spokesperson. This is precisely the point that has been raised when dealing with the Tax Plan. These included middle-income people in the rush hour of their lives, for whom, for example, the cost of childcare is high. We have tabled all kinds of amendments to make the tax system more ambitious, precisely in order to keep those people safe and to increase their purchasing power. All these amendments have been voted down by the Labour Party. I find it easy, and a little frustrating too, let me put it in such a way that the rent policy is fine tuned. The rental policy is an important part, but it is also a small part of the whole purchasing power picture. However, the buttons are turned on the square millimetre. I would like to say once again that this has led to the disruption of the housing market in the Netherlands for decades. People therefore have to wait eight to ten or twelve years for an affordable good home. Mr De Vries should also consider this to be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u90	Mr Koolmees knows that the Labour Party says like no other in this Chamber: building, building, building, because there is a risk of a new housing shortage. Artificial redistributions and so on are necessary because there is a shortage, but the only solution is to build. In that respect, we are each other's allies. I admit that Mr Koolmees is a little deeper in all these financial debates, but now that these financial arrangements are in place, I have the choice today: are we going to impose additional rent on the elderly and those families with children? Under these circumstances, those people can't wear them. We must prevent that. I hope D66 sees that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u91	I am very much in favour of taking care of people in rush hour of life and families with children. We have also put forward concrete proposals for this in the debate on the budget and on the Tax Plan. We have proposed to increase the working discount and childcare allowance. In fact, we negotiated with the Cabinet to ensure that the childcare allowance would indeed be increased by 200 million. So I agree. I'm not going to repeat the discussion. With the best intentions and the best backgrounds, these buttons are always turned, but the problem is that you create such a new problem that will occur in a few years' time. And I'd finally like to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u92	I hear Mr Koolmees say that D66 wants to disturb the housing market less. Then it is strange that D66 says at the same time that the borders should be open, so that hundreds of thousands of non-Western immigrants enter the Netherlands for whom there are no homes at all? Mr Koolmees knows that too. People who have been on the waiting list for years are suddenly deprived of a home because another asylum seeker is ahead. Then it's easy to say here that you don't want to disrupt the housing market, but D66 is disrupting the housing market by letting hundreds of thousands of people in for whom we don't have houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u93	Whatever the subject, Mr Madlener always talks about immigrants and refugees. I immediately agree with Mr Madlener and Mr De Vries that more should be added. That is why D66 also supported the Minister's plans for temporary housing and the conversion of offices. Much remains to be done in the coming years. Sure. However, I find it a little easy for Mr Madlener to keep bringing in the refugee crisis. The Netherlands really has a moral responsibility to deal with it responsibly and to give people a chance. That's the law. If people get residence permits here, they should also be given the opportunity to live properly. They should be given the opportunity to integrate, to go to work and to go to school. They can also contribute to Dutch society. Whatever it is about, Mr Madlener brings this subject up every time and makes a gratuity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u94	This is about the essence of living: if you let someone in, you have to have a house and we don't have it. How can you say it's a strange link? It's just the beginning of all the problems. You let people in when you know there aren't enough homes. The Dutch, who have been on a waiting list for years, come back on a waiting list. I have tabled an amendment to delete that priority arrangement for status holders. I assume D66 will at least support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u95	Certainly not, so does Mr Madlener. Yeah, there's gotta be construction. Yes, more needs to be built. Yes, as a society, we are faced with a challenge. At the same time, 5% of the homes released are reserved for people with an emergency status. So let us not pretend that this is the problem of the housing market. For years, perhaps decades, we have had very long waiting lists for social housing. We need to do something about that. That is why we need to build, and that is why we need to make the housing market work better. I'd stayed on the annual test. I welcome Mr Van Vliet's amendment. However, it is still strange that, as I pointed out in my example of last Tuesday, the De Vries family and the Van der Linde family inhabit the same house but are treated unequally. That's not how we're gonna deal with the skewing, and that's not how we're gonna let the rental market flow. I have therefore thought about an amendment and the way in which you could shape it, but frankly I have not gotten out of it. I'll file a motion to investigate this further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the maximum rent increase rate is fixed on the basis of household income levels;]] [[noting that at present the difference between the actual rent and the maximum permissible rent does not play a role in determining the maximum rent increase;]] [[whereas it is also fair, if the level of the rent plays a role, because otherwise tenants who are more disloyal will receive a lower absolute rent increase than tenants who are less disloyal;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into how the income-dependent rent increase can also be determined on the basis of market conformity of the rent, e.g. by setting up truffles, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34373-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u96	It's a complicated motion. You can read her back in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u97	I'm gonna tell you right now that I'm not getting a warm feeling about that. What Mr Koolmees failed to achieve in a day and a half, the coalition failed in a year and a half: that is, to close everything up with little truffles. You're just not getting out of there. I understand Mr Koolmees' problem very well, but there is simply no solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u98	I challenge the Minister and his officials to sit down and think about it. I think this Minister will accept that challenge. My group supports the starting date of 1 January 2017. We do ask if the rents will be moderated in 2016. I'd like to confirm that. I find it special that an amendment has been tabled which actually discriminates according to age. If you are 65 years old, you have a high income and you live crookedly, you are not eligible for the income-dependent rent increase, but if you are 64 years old you are. I find that really striking in Mr Ronnes' amendment, among others. A brief comment about temporary renting. For D66 rents remain the norm for an indefinite period. After all, your home is your home. A temporary contract should not be a pilot contract. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to Mrs Schouten's amendment, which is in line with her proposal on temporary rental. I am particularly interested in this in order to avoid that pilot contract. I therefore await the answer with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u99	The Minister has indicated that he can answer the questions immediately, so I will give him the floor immediately for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u100	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for all the supplementary questions. I will answer them in the order of the speaker. A number of questions have been asked by several speakers. I think it will be inevitable that I will devote a great deal of time to Mr Bashir. I'd like to give that to him with all my heart. Because I can also answer some of his questions through my answer to other people's questions, I can get a little shorter towards the end. If I forget a question, the Chamber will undoubtedly intervene. Mr Bashir was the first to ask how we should interpret yesterday's ruling of the Court of Justice of the Council of State and what consequences it has for this law. Understandably, all MPs asked for it. The Court of Justice of the Council of State has stated that the law must contain an explicit mandate for the Tax Administration to provide income data and that the Tax Administration does not have to provide such data if that explicit mandate is not in place. This piece is being repaired in this law. Mrs Schouten and Mr Bashir have asked whether I should have this explicitly assessed by the Council of State. For the record, that is another part of the Council of State, namely the Advisory Section. He has advised on this, because about the same as this Act on rental market 2015 a data provision law Tax administration has been filed. That was a pure repair law. After all, we knew there was a procedure going on. We had the hope that it would be won, but a proposal was also put forward on that particular part, in order to be sure and not to waste any time. That law has fallen behind this Law in the process of being treated in the Chamber. That is all well and good, but there is already an explicit opinion from the Council of State on the issue on which the court ruling was delivered yesterday. That is another subject that Mr Bashir pointed out. The ruling of the Personal Data Protection Board at the time was about the size of the files that were used. On this basis, we have also adapted the procedure, in the sense that a landlord must first identify the groups from which the income data would be requested. As a result, the Tax Administration has to supply much smaller files. After that, there has also been no objection from the College Protection Personal Data. Mr Bashir was the first to ask why this haste was being used. Mr Ronnes has also talked about this in detail. The rush is that in order to allow the moderation of the rents on 1 July next on the basis of the rent, the legislation will actually have to be passed by the First Chamber before 1 April. This is necessary both for the consultation between landlords and tenants on the proposed rent increase as well as for the Tax Administration. Could I get to work on this law sooner? No, because there was no agreement between Aedes and the House Union until June of last year. Then they made an agreement. Of course, on that basis, I had to calculate the effects first. I sent a letter to the Chamber in July. We then had a debate on this. On that basis, a law had to be made. That's a real job with my expert officials, too. That law then had to go to the Council of State. That's how time went on. Once again, I very much appreciate that the Chamber is cooperating in a speedy process, but I really do not see with the best will in the world how this could have been done more quickly without taking due account of the care and the agreements between the House and Aedes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u101	I conclude that the Minister is done with his block on the ruling of the Council of State. I have one more question about that. Yesterday, the House Union suggested that people might get back all these rent increases. I think it is right that the Minister should indicate what consequences that ruling could have for the three-year period that is behind us. I'm asking him to do a little anticipation management.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u102	Sure. Mr Bashir has also asked for this. That was my next point. The Council of State has pointed out that there must be an explicit obligation of the Tax Administration in the law. In fact, that's a privacy argument. As far as I am concerned, it is not likely that this will then result in an obligation to pay compensation, or from the State or from landlords, because financial damage is not involved. They just asked for a rent increase. There were political supporters and opponents, but there was simply a parliamentary majority for it. It really focused on the privacy aspect. This brings me to the broader political weighting around such an income-dependent rent increase. When I look at the history of the law, income-dependent rent increases have been proposed for the first time by my predecessors Donner and Spies and adapted by this cabinet, as well as by this debate and the amendments tabled, I see a lot of wishes. As far as I have not yet done so, I shall deal with this later. These concerns the level of the income limit and the group or groups affected. It is only in his motion that his amendments go another way. Mr Bashir says quite explicitly: you should not do it. I do not agree with Mr Bashir. Social housing, good housing for people with a small wallet, are in fact a social provision. If you make it available and if there is a lot of demand for it, there will be scarcity. Then you have to be selective in the allocation. Then you can ask for income. In any case, I think we all accept this. I also thought Mr Bashir was doing this at the start of the rental. But once again, given the scarcity and lack of flow, I think it is purely that the legislator says: you may, of course, continue to live in your house, because that is an essential right, but if you can afford it, we are going to ask you for a little more. Partly because of the flow incentive, but also partly because it increases the investment opportunities of the landlords and therefore more can be built. That is a wish that is also widely shared. That brings me to the question put by Mr Bashir on why the letter of amendment on the elderly was adopted. Mr Ronnes also replied. Mr Ronnes asked whether the Council of State should not take a decision on this matter. Well, the Council of State has taken a stand on this. It was precisely the Council of State who in its opinion wondered whether it makes sense to exclude older people from income-dependent rent increases. A number of speakers supported this in the debate. As a result of a debate, it is very common not only for the Chamber to table amendments, but also for a minister to say: I understand your point and I agree with it, so I submit a letter of amendment for my part. If a minister never did, we'd have some sort of conversation between deaf people. This specific letter of amendment has therefore been drawn up following the opinion of the Council of States and following the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u103	So far, I understand the explanation. What surprises me is that the letter of amendment was purely a drafting change. Knowing that the impact could have been what it was when the ruling of the Council of State came yesterday, wouldn't it have been purer to mention the risk and indicate why that change was made and not just to send it to the Chamber as a editorial change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u104	There was a first letter of amendment, which was mainly editorial. It did not contain the central point of yesterday's Council of State ruling, because that was already in the law. The first letter of amendment concerned a number of points, including the concern expressed most clearly by Mrs Schouten, namely that, when converting a fixed-term lease into an indefinite contract, the rent could be completely re-established. That was in the first letter of amendment. The second letter of amendment concerned the removal of pensioners from the income-dependent rent increase. They've been replaced by larger families. Once again, this was the result of a combination of the opinion of the Council of State and the debate we have had here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u105	I will read the first note carefully, but I think that there was something about income distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u106	Yes, but that was a purely textual point, not the main point I was just talking about. But of course you can read it properly again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u107	Speaking of the elderly, the Minister has given the Chamber a very good reason in his first legislative proposal why an exception should apply to pensioners in particular, namely that the flow for which the proposal is intended is simply much less relevant for pensioners. They can't get a mortgage, they might wait another five years before they go to a nursing home. That was a very legitimate reason to exclude pensioners from that crazy measure. Why does the Minister just come back to that at such a late hour? Why is he abandoning the elderly, knowing that under this cabinet they have already turned in such a huge amount of purchasing power? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u108	We have had a very specific debate on this in the first period. The Council of State pointed out that the purchasing power problem is not so much with the elderly. Mr De Vries, as well as others, pointed out. The Nibud figures indicate that the purchasing power problem is mainly with larger families. In the meantime, an amendment has been tabled which has also been discussed. I'll pass a judgment on that in a moment. I shall go into that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u109	Anyone who is the first to submit this is not a discussion, but quite apart from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u110	The President is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u111	I do not know what stone the Minister has been under in recent years, but when it comes to purchasing power and the elderly, the Minister should not pretend there is no problem. It is precisely the older people with the supplementary pensions that are extremely affected by this change that are compared to other groups. They have turned in a great deal in recent years. Of course, people are also used to a certain income and to certain expenses. If you constantly, year by year, take that same group of older people with an extra pension in their wallet, then surely it cannot be that the minister here states that there is no problem with the purchasing power of those older people. No, it is the elderly who have problems with purchasing power!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u112	Nor do I want to be told that there would be no problem with purchasing power. The cabinet has had to take difficult measures in recent years, which has actually felt every Dutchman in the wallet, including the elderly. Both the figures from the Nibud and statements from the Council of State prompted us to say that there is a more pressing bottleneck in large families. That is why I have come up with that letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u113	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u114	I see you want to do your interruption in three, Mr Madlener. In fact, we do that in two, and if I make an exception for you, then there is a danger that everyone will rely on that exception. So let's stick to interrupting in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u115	To get back to the point of those seniors. On the one hand, you have the income problem, on the other hand, the elderly, who are faced with high rent increases, are often no longer in a position to get another mortgage, for example, to move on to a house of sale. This makes the situation of older people really different from that of people who used to live in their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u116	Mr Ronnes is right that it is often difficult for the elderly to get a mortgage. Not impossible, but often more difficult. I wanted to go into all the amendments in one block, but it makes sense to comment directly on Mr Ronnes's and Mr De Vries' amendments and on Mr Madlener's amendment. I let the Chamber know the effects on the landlord's earning ability, and earning power means the ability to build and renovate homes. That weighs heavily on me. That would be another 13 million for housing corporations and 2 million for other landlords. Mr Ronnes has tabled an amendment which gives a little more financial scope. Probably I won't be able to calculate exactly the proceeds. It's a little terra incognita. Mr Van der Linde asked about it. Housing corporations have also indicated that they attach importance to the possibility of increasing the rent on the basis of investment in new rentals. It gives a certain amount of space. In view of the combination of these amendments, I leave both to the Court's opinion. I shall return to Mr Bashir's questions. He asked for that letter of amendment. He repeated a number of questions from the first term. I have answered some of them, for example, the question of why the laws have not been broken. I had a first-term discussion with Mr Koolmees on this. I have indicated that part of the legislation leads to less investment. The rent is set at a lower level than is currently the case. That part also leads to less flow. However, I think it is important for Aedes and the House Union to conclude such an agreement, and that is why I started looking for ways of laying down that agreement in a law, at the same time overcoming the disadvantage. I have combined this with the long-standing desire in the sector to offer a number of opportunities for temporary contracts under strict conditions. This can be done by landlords, especially the small private landlords who are not yet able to rent out. I was able to overcome some of the disadvantage of the rent-sum approach. Hence the combination. Mr Bashir asked for the guarantee that people would not be on the streets after a temporary contract. A number of forms of temporary contracts are proposed. In some forms, this objection has been overcome partly by an amendment by Mr De Vries to accompany large families to another home. In purely a fixed-term contract, it does not make sense to make agreements in advance, as both parties deliberately choose to rent temporarily. Other forms are provided for. Mr Bashir asked for a response to the NIS survey on how to deal with the distortion of living. Of course, it was a bit of a survey to get an impression. I have shared with the Chamber the figures of the Tax Administration, which show a positive picture. I am in a positive mood, but we are going to carry out an extensive evaluation. A quantitative goal for a new law in unknown fields would be very brave. But of course, I'm evaluating to see if the intended effects are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u117	We have a big bill now. In fact, it is two legislative proposals that have been put together. The Minister says he has done this to reduce the housing shortage: the waiting lists are getting shorter and the flow is starting. But we must have objectives, for example, that the waiting lists are less, that the flow is getting under way or that there will soon be fewer skeptical residents as defined by the Minister? We have not received any figures on this at all. So there is nothing we can do about this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u118	It's not like there's no numbers at all. I shared the figures from the IRS with the Chamber. If we start measuring again later, it is not possible to separate which part of the flow is now caused by the income-dependent aspect and which part is due to the possibility to rent temporarily. It is quite right that we should see if there is more movement in the housing market. That is why we have agreed with each other that there will be a state of housing, a state of the housing market. This law will be extensively evaluated. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr De Vries. The figures we have are pointing in the right direction, but it is impossible to pull out exactly what is caused by which piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u119	We have had a similar bill in the past, introducing, for example, the income-dependent rent increase. At that time we did not hear any objectives from the Minister to determine whether or not the policy is successful. Now that only 3% of the skeptics, as the minister defines, have moved and all the others have remained seated, the Minister says: you see, it has been successful. Of course, you can also define it differently, namely that only 3% has moved and that the rest has remained. Therefore, the question remains why the Minister does not dare to set quantitative targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u120	There remains a persistent misunderstanding about percentage points and percentage points in the debate with Mr Bashir. The share of tenants in the highest income category has fallen from more than 26% to about 23%. So that's 3% of the total number of tenants. Of the group with the highest incomes, the group that we focus on with income-dependent policies, more than 10% have moved in three years. More than 10%, can I interpret that as a positive figure in a housing market that has so far had no incentives at all as to what it was about living crookedly? Again, we are going to evaluate it even more extensively to peel it out, but Mr Bashir's use of figures is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u121	Mr Bashir, I did not allow Mr Madlener to do so. Do you have numbers that make you think differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u122	I wonder if you can put it like the Minister says. I see that in 2014 the income of 4.6% of people was unknown and in 2015 it was 8.5%. So the 3% that has disappeared could also be in there. Well, you can say they've run out, but you can't say that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u123	They won't all suddenly have no income. Here again, I repeat. The tax authorities' figures are pointing in the right direction. We're doing an evaluation to pierce even deeper into the exact underlying factors. I come to the motions and the new amendment tabled by Mr Bashir, which I had not yet commented on. That is the amendment to item No. 32, which puts the maximum rent increase for household income below €66,421 on inflation. The positive thing I see is that Mr Bashir also recognises the importance of an income test. After all, it is necessary for this amendment. However, I think that the income he uses is far too high. This is a group of which we have laid down in legislation that it does not belong to the target group of social housing. It's a group that can actually pay a little more rent. That is why I do not recommend the amendment to item No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 32. Then I come to Mr Bashir's motions. His motion in part No. 38 requests that the income-dependent rent increase be waived in 2016 and that the rent be inflation-related. It is therefore somewhat contrary to the amendment. I should also like to advise against this motion, because I would like to keep the incentive to flow through and the additional investment capacity that the income-dependent rent increase brings. His motion in part No. 39 asks the Government, in a ministerial arrangement, to limit the number of temporary leases that a landlord may enter into and to submit this ministerial arrangement to the House of Representatives. I do not think that is feasible in practice. There are landlords who by their nature will work a lot with temporary rental contracts, for example landlords who focus on student housing. Because of the campus contract and possibly also because of the youth contract, if Mrs Schouten's initiative proposal is adopted, there will be a very large proportion of temporary rent. I can also imagine that a landlord is going to focus specifically on people who are doing temporary work. It will also be a large share. With another landlord it will be a very small share. I can't cut that in a ministerial arrangement. That's why I have to discourage this motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 40. It calls on the government to ensure that new loan contracts are not concluded with anti-crackers and that transitional arrangements are introduced. The loan agreement is desirable in a number of cases as far as I am concerned, otherwise buildings will remain empty. I have mentioned a number of examples in the first term. By the way, carrying out the motion would also require a whole legislative change. However, as far as I am concerned, the use of loan contracts will be reduced as a result of this law, because we are creating other, decent legal possibilities. But there are still cases where it is really good that buildings are used and do not remain empty. We have also discussed such examples in the first period. Mr Van der Linde said that in the combination of his own amendment to allow a two-year contract, on the one hand, and the amendment on interim termination, on the other hand, I believe that Mr De Vries is proposing an improvement in the law. I agree. I would like to leave both amendments to the House's assessment. Mr Van der Linde asked for a response to Mr Ronnes and Mr De Vries' motion and for the corresponding figures. I just gave it to you. With Mr Van der Linde, my aim is to restore quickly the consequences of yesterday's Council of State ruling. The key to that is in this bill. Mr Van Vliet also asked: that recovery is indeed in this law. The Council of State has already looked at this in the form of that other law. I fully agree with the definition of the flow that Mr Van Vliet now used, i.e. from the regulated to the unregulated sector. That brings me to Mr Van Vliet's motion, to item No. 42. It calls on the government to include the figures in the evaluation of the law in order to assess whether this flow is present. I'd be happy to say so. So I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. Mrs Schouten is not present now, but she is undoubtedly listening or reading along. She also asked whether the Council of State could still look at the correction to the data provided in this law. As I said, this has already been done in the opinion on the Tax Administration's data provision law. Mrs Schouten has also tabled an amendment, on item No. 37. It proposes that temporary contracts require a declaration and a judicial check. I actually want to cut my judgment on this in half. A judicial test would seriously affect the nature of the temporary contract. I told you, it's the intention to create additional offers on the rental market. I mentioned as an example people who live in Parkstad Limburg, who have a house empty and have no income at all. There is demand for rentals and they seem to be excited to take that step. I'd like to cross the line with those people. I wouldn't pull them over if they got the message that the termination of the lease would always have to go through the courts. However, I do not mind if we agree that, let us say a month before the expiry of a temporary lease, the landlord sends a further notification stating that it is indeed the intention to terminate the lease, as had already been agreed. This contributes to clarity and to the proper handling of each other. If the amendment could be amended to that effect, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. In its present form, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u124	Now Mrs Schouten is avenged that she is not present in the Chamber. We therefore insist for the time being that the Minister should discourage the amendment, with the announcement that Mrs Schouten will be informed of it and that she herself can ensure that the government's opinion becomes different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u125	In addition, the government's willingness to leave the amendment with such an adjustment to the Chamber's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u126	I would like to speak on behalf of Mrs Schouten, however dangerous it is that I say this. I had the same question. I understand that the landlord sends a notice a month before the termination of the temporary contract. That's neat, 'cause someone's gonna know. What are the consequences if that doesn't happen? The discussion is about the automatic termination versus the proposal that is now in the law. That is also the crux of the amendment. The Minister says he doesn't want the judicial test. I understand his considerations, but the crux is of course the question of what happens to the contract if the landlord does not send a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u127	Then you can of course assume that the landlord indicates that he wishes to renew. Mr Koolmees asked the specific question to what extent this was different from Mrs Schouten's own initiative law. It's the most convenient thing for me to answer that question right now. The difference lies in the addition to the existing "urgent own use" clause. In addition, instead of the young person leaving, there must be another young person. A judge can check on that if he so wishes. This is different from a one-year contract or, if Mr Van der Linde's amendment is adopted, a two-year contract, which has been agreed in advance that it is temporary, for example in relation to the duration of an employment contract or any other reason. Then what would the judge have to test for? So that creates the great uncertainty that I don't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u128	I understand. I'm a simple economist, not a lawyer. The chairman is a lawyer. I always understand that the crux is in the Civil Code. Its wording is that urgent reason, a kind of exhaustive list, while the legislation is now the opposite. Does this change to Mrs Schouten's amendment mean that the contract will automatically be converted into an indefinite contract if the landlord does not send that letter a month in advance? What are the legal implications of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u129	That may be accepted, but you cannot go to court and say: I changed my mind. You agreed it was for a certain length of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u130	I understand. As a simple economist, I say: you have signed a contract with each other for one or, after possible adoption of the amendment, two years. A month before that two-year contract expires, the landlord sends a letter. The contract will be terminated. Then there is no more compensation or expenses. I understand that, because both parties have entered into a temporary contract in advance for two years. The crux for Mrs Schouten lies in the point that the contract simply goes through if the landlord does not send that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u131	Yes, then the tenant may assume that it is apparently not being used. Previously, we have put in the law that an indefinite contract arises if the tenant continues to live and the landlord does not respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u132	This is really a crucial point, Mr President. For the sake of clarity, for my group, does this mean that the provision 'the contract will automatically lapse' will disappear if Mrs Schouten amends the amendment as the Minister now puts it and that amendment will be adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u133	No, it's not. It will automatically lapse, because otherwise you would get that judicial test again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u134	I don't understand. You first say that the landlord must make a notification one month before the expiry of the term of the contract and that, at the time he does not, the tenant may assume that the contract will be converted into an indefinite contract. Then I don't understand what that "automatically expired" means anymore. Well, then that's not gonna work anymore, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u135	Sure, because there is no more substantive judicial review. That is the essential difference from Mrs Schouten's own initiative law. In that case, the judge can check whether there is indeed another tenant who meets the criteria. A fixed-term contract doesn't. It is still possible to check whether the standard of decency, which we would then introduce, has been complied with in time for a letter to be sent. I do not think that is unreasonable in business traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u136	This is gonna last a few more days, I understand. Is it perhaps a suggestion to look at how we have organised this in labour law? The same applies there. There will also be rules for a one-year contract of employment. Maybe we can try to tie that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u137	Grosso mode looks that way. There, too, there is a commitment to temporary contracts. In order to really compare, I have to do it on paper. I am prepared to make that available for Tuesday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u138	Do I understand from this that you undertake to send another letter, or do you undertake to speak to Mrs Schouten in order to amend this amendment in such a way that it can also be approved by the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u139	Actually, there are two questions. If the amendment is amended in this direction, I can leave it to the House to decide. Then there is another question from Mr Van der Linde, namely whether we can compare it with what is customary in labour law. I should do that in a letter, because I can't say that out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u140	I just wanted to give it as a suggestion. A separate letter is a bit exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u141	That comparison of colleague Van der Linde is actually a very nice one. A temporary contract of employment between employer and employee shall cease to exist automatically. That's the situation. I'm a lawyer myself. Now we are talking about something essential, namely a temporary lease. That's no different than a temporary contract of employment. It has to stop automatically. If it takes an action to stop it, it's just not a temporary contract anymore. Can the Minister confirm that the term "legally" remains in the law and that it is therefore a temporary contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u142	Of course, it remains automatic, that was also the discussion I just had with Mr De Vries. You're adding a notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u143	Thank you, Minister, so I can vote for the bill. If we take 'automatically' out, the temporary contracts disappear and the whole bill doesn't make sense. I am therefore pleased that the Minister does not allow the Christian Union to determine the entire rental market of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u144	The Christian Union and other parties are, of course, entitled to their proposals for improvement. Along this route I try to find a workable solution. Mrs Schouten has tabled two motions. In the motion in part No. 43 the government is invited to make agreements with landlords on the publication of the rental fee, for example in the annual proposal for rent increase, and that the rental commission can have the basis for this when dealing with procedures on the level of the rent increase. I am going to make it difficult for the President, because I will now make a few comments which call for improvement. The motion asks for information on the amount of rent to be made available to the Rent Committee. However, it is not the rental committee that judges that. These are initially tenants and landlords together and, if necessary, the Housing Authority. However, it is the intention that the landlords publish annually how they deal with the rent. So I can support that part of the motion. In this case too, therefore, an invitation to Mrs Schouten to amend the motion in such a way that I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the present form, I must discourage the motion because it does not correspond to the practice. In the motion in part No. 44 asks Mrs Schouten to submit the proposal for the reduction of the allocation limit to the Chamber first and to give an insight into the effects of maximum rent increase of inflation + 4% for the group from €34.000 to €44.000. That is estimated to be €38,000. I understand the thrust of the motion. The House Act stipulates that the allocation limit is to be abolished, automatically, I would like to put it in line with the previous discussion. At that time it was €34.000 and is now indexed to €38.000. So I can't change that law on this one. However, I would like to say that I shall inform the Court of Justice of the effects of this measure, although it is likely to be my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u145	I've missed the appreciation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u146	In addition, the motion will have to be modified. The operative part of the motion contains the phrase: the Government requests that the proposal for the reduction of the allocation limit be submitted to the Chamber first. However, there is no proposal, as the reduction already automatically follows from the law. Although I undertake to provide that information at that time, an amendment to the motion could lead me to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u147	But right now, you're dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u148	With this text, I have to dissuade her. I hope I have answered Mr De Vries' questions about the Council of State. He pointed out once again that I would also like to sit at the table with private landlords to talk about the rental space they have at their disposal. I would like to point out once again that, on balance, the Act on the transfer of rentals does not constitute an extension to the income-dependent system. The law only takes the average of the income-dependent percentages that were there first. For the housing corporations, the law means a tightening of the rental space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u149	Am I mistaken that at the moment the rent increase is 1.5% and that this law provides that this may be 2.5% for private landlords? Then there must be room for some groups to be spared from holding on to the earning capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u150	Private landlords are now also dependent on income: inflation plus 1.5% for the lowest income classes, inflation plus 2% for the middle income classes and inflation plus 4% for the highest income classes. The average of 1.5%, 2% and 4% is 2.5%. That is how we managed to achieve that percentage. Mr De Vries asked for confirmation that in the local performance agreements, agreements can also be made on the fight against expensive distortions and the access to a cheap home. Not only can this be done, the cost of rent also makes it easier to take the step towards a cheap home, because then there will no longer be the concern that by harmonising the rents there will suddenly be a rent jump. Indeed, this can be better reflected in the local agreements. Mr De Vries has also tabled a motion, the motion in part No. 45, in which the government is invited to monitor the use as a trial period by means of the announced intermediate measurements even before the review moment after five years. I have said that I would be happy to do so, including in the State of Housing. I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgment. I have now responded to Mr Madlener's amendment to item No. 31. The aim of this amendment is to exclude the elderly from the income-dependent rent increase. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, considering everything. Mr Madlener's amendment on the Housing Act and the Status Holders, the amendment on item No. 7, I'd already advised against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u151	The Minister says that he has already rejected Mr Madlener's amendment to the urgent procedure. Is he able to argue again why he is dissuading that amendment? After all, it is in line with what has been started with the amendment sent to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u152	Sure. This is in fact in line with what Mr Ronnes said earlier about the importance of a test by the Council of State. That was also my argument on Tuesday in the debate with Mr Madlener. This concerns the amendment of the Housing Act in relation to status holders. I sent that proposal, which is also based on a motion, to the Council of State. In an orderly legislative process, you ask the Council of State for advice. As I indicated in the letter, I also take note of Mr De Vries' motion, which calls for the finger to be kept on the wrist when it comes to the availability of cheap housing. That complex is the reason for me to say that we need to do it carefully. Mr Ronnes just said that if there is a real rush, sometimes it is no different, but here we have the space to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u153	Please continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u154	Mr Madlener said it was the result. That's my boy. I know he's critical of the income-dependent rent increase and he's positive about the possibility of temporary rent. Because we are now creating the opportunity to spare the elderly and large families and because the rent increase of tenants in housing corporations is limited, I hope that he will make a positive assessment of this law, bearing in mind his statement "it is about the result'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u155	I see that Mr Madlener still has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u156	For the people who are watching this debate, there will not be many at dinner time, I would like to say that I will not give a positive opinion. I will not advise my group to vote in favour of this. I don't think the rent should be determined on the basis of your income. If two people live in the same house and are neighbors, then one cannot pay much more rent because he earns more than the other. This is similar to Mr Rutte's income-dependent dried bulbs. It doesn't make the housing market healthy, but you disturb it further. I will therefore give my group a negative opinion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u157	On the basis of his statement that this is the result, I had some hope, but Mr Madlener is putting that hope back into the ground. I hope that I have answered Mr Ronnes' questions on the opinion of the Council of State, the statement of the Council of State and the letters of amendment. I have said that I would like to leave the two amendments he has tabled together with Mr De Vries to the House. Mr Ronnes once again asked me to go into his earlier amendment, which does not include the increase in rent between the liberalization limit and the final amount of rent. I indicated that I read the agreement between Aedes and the House Union in this way. I do so on the basis of the footnote in which it says: excluded contracts are liberalised. The law as it is now formulated states that it is indeed outside the rent once a contract has been liberalised, but the step is entirely covered by the rent. I would like to thank Mr Koolmees for his compliments, which I am returning, because the way in which we have been able to work together in the context of the housing agreement is actually the last outstanding commitment from this law, which I believe has been of great value to the Dutch housing market. I understand both his statement that there is too much income policy in the rental policy and his statement that you keep inequality. He gave the example of the De Vries and Van de Linde families and Mr Barry to demonstrate this. I hope he will also note with me that in politics it is often the case that you find a situation that has arisen and that it is not humanly possible to do well to say at once: I have an ideal and that is where we are going. In all the measures on the housing market, whether they were rents or mortgages, we have always said: we are moving towards a different situation, but people who are used to the height of the rent or a mortgage form should have the opportunity to experience these steps. In that context...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u158	Sorry. If you weren't ready, please...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u159	In this context, I am assessing the motion tabled by Mr Koolmees. The motion asks whether an income-dependent rent increase can also be combined with truffles based on market conformity of the rent. I'd love to meet that. However, the political reality will be that it is probably a building block, because we cannot always change a law. However, I suspect that government agreements will be renegotiated in more than a year's time. A model as Mr Koolmees sketches can then be ready as a building block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u160	I am very grateful to the Minister for the latter: for the opinion of the Chamber on my motion. Then I'd like to talk about "steps forward and steps back." I fully understand that we all need to take steps to gradually balance the housing market. We have done so in the past year with the housing agreement. There is now an amendment tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr De Vries in which a separate booth is created. People of AOW age with an income above €39,000 receive different treatment than people of 64 with the same high income. I have a question of conscience to the Minister: isn't that a step backwards in housing policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u161	For me, it's an example of what I just mentioned. An ideal situation is that in which, for example, you would achieve income policy purely through the rent payment. I think this would be Mr Koolmees' choice, because I see him nodding. The current situation calls for a transition. Of course, it depends a little on your political appreciation whether you say: in the transition we are most concerned about that particular group. Now the bigger families and the older ones are in the picture. After all, if you look at the income situation, I'm just basing myself on the Nibud now, there are more concerns about large families and older people. But I have to admit that Mr Ronnes does have a point. It's not impossible for the elderly to take out a mortgage, but it's more difficult. All this, I must admit to Mr Koolmees that it is becoming more complex. I am not counting on everyone applauding for this, but we are trying to shape it so that everyone can wear it reasonably. On that basis, I would also like to leave this amendment to the opinion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u162	This is a very political answer. But the core is, of course, that there is another patch on the housing market, while it is the challenge. The Minister also repeats that challenge continuously to convert into middle rentals and to senior housing; there is an urgent need for that. This amendment takes a step back. What is called discrimination in the housing market is being re-launched. The Home Secretary can't get excited about that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u163	The reason I am positive about the amendment is that it helps to make that movement anyway. I understand that Mr Koolmees wants to get there faster. Again, I have good memories of the discussions with Mr Koolmees and others on previous movements, but if I want to contribute to that movement, it will always be a bit of a matter of giving and taking. But I am also of the line that counts the result. That is why I have expressed my opinion on this amendment and on other amendments as I have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u164	Another point, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u165	I understand the Minister's judgment. I shall come back to Mrs Schouten's amendment because I was a little puzzled. Mr Van Vliet asked whether "the termination of the contract would remain automatic." The Minister confirms that. At the same time, Mrs Schouten asked for the reservation of a letter. In the interruption I have just asked if the contract automatically turns into an indefinite contract if the landlord does not send a letter to the tenant stating that in a month's time he must be out of his house. Then it seems to me, as an economist and not a lawyer, that there is indeed a legal reservation for the termination of the contract. Since this is all an integral part of the legal history, I want to make this clear. In my opinion, these are two different interpretations of the article in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u166	My proposal concerns a formal requirement: has it been announced a month in advance that, as previously agreed, the contract will indeed expire? The law already stated that if a landlord would just allow a situation to continue after a year or two, the tenant would continue to live there; there would be no response at all if a situation of indefinite duration had already arisen. In that respect, I think it is quite possible to add such a notification. Again, that is quite different from when a court could also consider the substance of contracts for urgent personal use, or if another substantive requirement is met.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u167	I understand this. The consequence is, however, that if the landlord did not send the letter, for example because he made a mistake, but he did intend to terminate the contract, and he finds out two months later that he did not send the letter, it is an irrevocable fact that the contract has entered into for an indefinite period and the landlord cannot rely on the termination of the contract automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u168	If the amendment were to be adopted, the contract would indeed be open-ended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u169	I have a slightly different approach to ending a contract. Is illegal residence in this country also a reason to terminate a contract? We are talking about temporary contracts, for example for five years, for non-self-employed living quarters. I expect that the priority given to status holders and asylum seekers will indeed give a lot of young asylum seekers the five-year residence permit and rent a house. Suppose a residence permit is revoked after five years and someone like that becomes illegal. Will the lease be disbanded on that land?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u170	That is not automatically the case in my mind. This is a very legal question. I would like to confirm this in writing, but I have to say that the fact that someone is staying illegally in the Netherlands is not an independent reason for the cancellation of a rental contract. However, there is no doubt that judgments have been delivered by judges on this issue. I'll be happy to look it up and make it available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u171	Many asylum seekers are entering the Netherlands. It is possible that they will be deprived of their residence permit or that they will no longer have the right to stay. If they linger in those houses, the flow will of course not start at all. As far as PVV is concerned, illegality results in the termination of the lease and immediate exit from the country. That should be the line. I would like to see the reaction in written form come to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u172	Did that bring you to the end of your second term speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u173	I hope I have answered all the remaining questions. Or no, sorry! There is an amendment by Mr Ronnes that I have not yet commented on. The Ronnes amendment in part No. 36 aims to limit temporary leases to a few target groups, including for parties other than housing corporations. At least that's how I read it. That is a very serious breach of the Civil Code. The containment that Mr De Vries made through an amendment for housing corporations runs through the Housing Act. The Housing Act focuses on its nature on housing groups that are vulnerable for a number of reasons, such as income. It may also have to do with mental or physical health. This amendment affects the general rental right in the Civil Code. We do not know any separate groups; it is general contract law. This amendment fits in very badly. That's why I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-11.u174	That really brought you to the end of your speech. Amendments, legislative proposals and motions will be voted on next Tuesday. Amendments that are very similar or perhaps even the same may still be put together.
