ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance, the people in the public gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way. I would also like to welcome the authors of this citizens' initiative. George van Houts, Tom de Ket, Leopold Witte, Edgar Wortmann, Luuk de Waal Malefijt and Martijn Jeroen van der Linden took their seats in the chair. Mr George van Houts will present the proposed citizens' initiative from the outset. I therefore ask the guardian of the Chamber to accompany Mr Van Houts to the chair. Before I give you the floor, Mr Van Houts, I would like to say that you are not supposed to be interrupted. That's a real privilege in this room. No questions should therefore be asked or comments made. So it's your moment. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	Madam President, members of the House of Representatives. Citizen initiative Ons Geld has put the money system on the Chamber agenda. This system is very important for society. It determines to a large extent what our society looks like and what problems we face. This money system needs to be revised. It is unmanageable and runs against its limits. Our money system is a web of money promises from commercial banks. It's made up of money that you and I owe. However, these banks have promised us much more money than they actually have. That makes the money system unstable. It's a house of cards that's constantly falling apart. The government is holding this house of cards. As a society, we all bear the burden of this, including debt, austerity and economic stagnation. Monetary powers, read: banks, demand that society reform and adapt to this unstable money system over and over again. We see this in the erosion of social services and achievements. However, society must not shrivel under a shattered monetary system. That's a waste of our potential. Our money system needs reform. It must become serviceable to society, not unnecessarily burdening it, but making it flourish. Our money system also relies on elitist privileges. That is at odds with a modern democracy. It is time for the democratic rule of law to mature and the money system to be directly under its control. Money is the social means of power par excellence. A democracy that leaves this power to a financial elite is not itself in power, but is a sham democracy. Until recently, hardly anyone realized where the money actually comes from and who decides who gets it for what. That explains why monetary regulation is so flawed and monetary policy is so ineffective. Good understanding of the money system is essential if it is to be properly regulated. And that scheme is constitutionally entrusted to you as a legislator. We therefore call on you to accept this responsibility. As long as you leave the money system to commercial operators, you will continue to meet about its undesirable consequences and fill your days with symptom control. Our money is now borrowed from commercial banks. This has burdened society to the utmost with debt and debt. Growing inequality and persistent stagnation are the result. Even for banks, there is reason to move the monetary beacons. So don't be afraid of their rebellion. That sputter is evidence of rusty thinking and the illusion that there would be no alternative. There is that alternative, Madam President and Members of the House of Representatives. Quietly and at a low cost, the shortcomings of the current monetary system can be remedied. Bank deposits are converted into government-created money. That makes banks more stable and secures the cash flow. It reduces complexity and intertwinedness within the financial system, greatly simplifies banking supervision and can liberalise the credit market. The money system is then transparent and responsible to govern and can serve society. We have outlined this alternative in writing for you. It is now up to you to instruct the government to study and develop this further and to objectively weigh the social costs and benefits. This modernisation brings many billions to the treasury every year. It allows for accelerated repayment of public and private debts. If you provide a good money system, households don't need to borrow as much as they do now. The government says to stick to its current approach to the financial crisis. That approach doesn't convince. Problems are not solved, but moved to the future and to supranational level. Trying to build on a rickety money system. It's gonna be more complicated, but it's not gonna be better. The house of cards is held up at unacceptable social costs. With modern and relatively simple interventions, our money system is stable and healthy. This migration is simpler than the introduction of the euro, and more effective than the creation of a European Banking Union. The costs and risks are low, compared to the costs and risks of the current money system. The benefits are very great. It would put Europe out of its misery and as never before in its power. The aim of European integration is to stand strong together. This can be achieved through a stable and socially responsible money system. Madam President, Members of the House of Representatives, it seems to be a great task, but Western democracies have faced more intense fires. Abolition of slavery and the emancipation of women required greater social changes than the modernisation of the monetary system we have proposed. The right and duty to create money lie in principle with the government. Supported by 113,000 compatriots, I would ask your Chamber to speak in favour of this and to initiate the money reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	I hear and see you've brought fans. Normally there's no room for applause, but this time I'll make an exception. Thank you for your flaming speech. I propose that the debate begin with Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr President, on a point of order. The list of speakers contains four minutes of speaking time for all the political groups, while my group has only one minute of speaking unfairly. I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my great appreciation to the initiators of Our Money for the many work they have done and the broad resonance that their initiative gets in society. This is a signal that must lead to change. We're all more and more culpable. We're in charge of the banks. Our mortgages, corporate loans and pensions have made us completely dependent on a sector that is not transparent, which is subject to democratic control, which has more influence on the economy than politics has and has acted very irresponsible on several occasions, without any prospect of improvement. Unemployment, increasing inequality and unsustainable behaviour are hard to control from the political point of view, as unbridled money creation from the banks makes all the political instruments unbridled. Was money once a means of exchange whose value was determined by cover from gold stocks, now money is created without anything against it. This is not done by the government but by private profit-making banks, which are not hindered by any obligation to conduct socially responsible behaviour. The more money these banks create by issuing new loans, the more citizens and businesses are in debt and the more banks earn. That's a very perverse incentive. In this way, the money supply in our society has increased in a short time. That's a money bubble that leads to major social problems. When things go wrong, as in the 2008 financial crisis, banks are held up with billions of taxpayers' money, because private and public responsibilities are intertwined in the financial system. If you're okay, the bankers will take advantage. If things go wrong, the citizens pay. Does the Minister consider it wise that the banks have an interest in putting ourselves in debt as deep as possible? Does he recognise that money creation in the form of interest-bearing bank debt puts pressure on society to produce more and more continuously, thereby getting the "economy of enough" more and more out of the picture? Does he recognise that this is at the expense of the broad shared desire to reform the economy and society in such a way that they remain within the capacity of the earth? According to Professor Van Egmond of the Sustainable Finance Lab, a reform of the financial sector is necessary to prevent inflation and debt and to pay off government debt. This leaves tens of billions to invest in a sustainable society. In his view, it is a less radical change than the introduction of the euro at the time. Additional advantage when we place the right to create money in the hands of the government is that the money of citizens and businesses can be 100% guaranteed by that government. The Minister says he supports the aim of the citizens' initiative to achieve a more stable financial system, but he does not even want to examine any recommendation or proposal of this broad-based initiative. The essential question is why creating money is the privilege of private banks. Why is the system of money creation not set up in the public interest? The Minister does not answer this question in his response to the citizens' initiative. I'd like to hear that answer today, if I can. As far as the PvdD is concerned, money creation is a public task and we are democratizing the right to that money creation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. A well-known banker, Rothschild, once said, give me power over the money of a state, and it's no matter who makes the laws. The question is then legitimate why we are talking so little about the money system here. I would therefore also like to express my appreciation to the members of Our Money and to the De Verleiders, who have given the initiative a stage and who also give you an entertaining evening. A first point that Our Money raises is that money creation is poorly understood, even by people who engage in it professionally. I requested a hearing on it more than six months ago so that we could hear the experts here. I noticed during that dialogue that it went a little rough. In particular, the supervisors explained how the current system works. They didn't really go into the plans of Our Money. This was particularly true for the Dutch Bank, which is more generally a bit conservative. I therefore find it refreshing to hear that the initiators of Ons Geld dare to think out of the box. I thank the Minister for his response. In this he goes into the proposals of Our Money in detail and in detail. He identifies all the hooks and eyes that are attached to a system in which money creation is in the hands of the State and talks about the many uncertainties associated with it. However, I wonder what his answer is to the following simple question: is it possible? Does he consider such a system possible, with all the advantages and disadvantages aside? And is he prepared to investigate these possibilities, as is being investigated by the European Central Bank? Even without completely destroying the money system, "full reserve banks" can be made possible. Is the Minister prepared to consider the possibilities of removing legal obstacles to such banks? Such a bank, for example, no longer has to comply with the deposit guarantee scheme. Although such a bank still runs a small operational risk, this is negligible compared to the credit risk that other banks run. There is a need for safe banks. Over 80% of people want a bank in government hands. Is the Minister prepared to hold SNS in government hands? How big is the profits banks make in creating money? Banks claim that this is not so bad and that this profit falls away from the costs involved in maintaining the money system. However, we also know that banks are very good at presenting a reality to their advantage. Is the Minister therefore prepared to have an investigation into the profits that banks make on the basis of the exclusive right to create money? I think I am not the only one who has received a lot of mail in the run-up to this debate. I hope the Minister has had a lot of mail on this too, and I hope he has read that email. There is a much broader criticism from this point of view. We are now experiencing a global crisis caused by banks. For the many people who are still unemployed at home as a result, it is hard to imagine that banks are making big profits again while we all had to save those banks when they were in trouble. These e-mails send a clear message to the Minister, namely that marginal adjustments to the system are not enough. Most people crave a new system, a system that is not based on ever-greater debt and a system in which the importance of the banks, but the social interest, is absolutely paramount. Is the Minister prepared to make the necessary changes to our financial system, even if they are very far-reaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. Whoever has the money turns out to have the power. DENK supports citizens' initiative Our Money. Our money must finally be ours. 120,000 people signed off on that. 120,000 people want the bankers to stop talking about our money. 120,000 people want the people and the representatives of the people to talk about our money. They want the money system to be transparent and democratic. Of course, the group that wants that is actually much larger; the 120,000 signatures are just the tip of the iceberg. Then why does the Minister refuse to investigate such an alternative money system thoroughly? Why does he get stuck in the dike with his finger when time and time again the land is flooding? Why does he keep closing the holes in a failing system? We at DENK have four brief questions about this. Question one. Will the Minister carry out the investigations requested by the citizens' initiative? Is he willing to make an objective comparison between the existing money system versus the money system of Our Money? Question two. Is the Minister prepared to highlight the citizens' initiative Our Money European, for example in his Ecofin Group or in the framework of the EU Presidency? Question three. Does the Minister see possibilities for a small-scale pilot with the alternative money system? Is it possible to test the system of Our Money small-scale alongside the existing system? Question four. Is the government prepared to give this type of citizens' initiative a long-term opportunity by leaving them on the political agenda for ten years, giving them a chance in several cabinets? Now these kinds of initiatives are often voted down and 100,000 signatures disappear into the trash. I'm rounding up. Whoever has the money turns out to have the power. Whoever makes the money makes the power. It's all connected. Politics and citizens aren't about it, the bankers are. DENK thinks this should change. DENK agrees with the citizens' initiative Our Money: our money must be ours again. I would like to thank 120,000 people for this initiative. Dare to think differently, dare to be righteous!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing an important citizens' initiative today. Many, many people are deeply concerned about the way in which we have dealt with our financial affairs in our society. Who's in charge of our money? Is there any democratic control of the system? Why can few become so rich from the debts of many? Almost eight years after the outbreak of the biggest financial crisis since 1929, there is still no confidence in our financial system by a large majority of citizens, and that is something that we, as representatives of the people, must take on board. My compliments to the initiators. With more than 120,000 signatures and much broader public support, they are now putting this issue firmly on the agenda. GroenLinks is happy with that. We are critical of the current design of our monetary and financial system. Yes, indeed, this has improved since 2008 with the increase in capital buffers and improved banking supervision. However, we see a need for further and more fundamental steps. Trust in the system must be restored and the social call for control of our money must be heard. In the response of the cabinet to the citizens' initiative, the aspect of democratic control of the financial system and money creation remains under-exposed. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that we really need to look at this more fundamentally? Surely the most important thing is to create a financial system that serves first and foremost the social interest rather than the commercial interest? GroenLinks sees three proposals in line with this citizens' initiative, which our group believes should be followed up in principle after further study. First of all, the state account. I use this as a working title, because a state account does not necessarily have to be organized by the State; it must be guaranteed by it. It's an interest-risk-free bank account. In his response, the Minister says that there are costs involved, but that is not enough reason not to do so. Radar's research, published a few days ago, shows that large groups of people see a role for the government in payment systems. 73% of the respondents said they would rather have guarantees than high interest rates. 30% of those interviewed would even like an obligation for a state bank account. Is the Minister prepared to carry out serious research into the cost, utility and need of such a guaranteed interest risk-free account? Improve the legal framework for money creation. Money creation is now part of the service of the shareholders of commercial banks. Is the Minister prepared to investigate a clear legal framework in which these profits from money creation will benefit society? I come to the special legal form for banks. Banks are not ordinary companies, but we still allow them even more, at the moment society thinks it is a preferred option for them to organise themselves as a commercial organisation as a company. Should there not be a different legal form for banks or is the State bank the only other option? As far as we are concerned, research should be carried out into legal forms that put the social purpose of a bank first and therefore remove the principle of profit maximization. A "not for profit" model would probably be much better for banks than the commercial model we now know. My colleague Liesbeth van Tongeren has made the proposal for corporate companies. This could be a more applicable legal form, perhaps also for banks. Would the Minister like to look into that? Banks, according to GroenLinks, do not belong on the stock exchange, at least not as ordinary companies. On this point, too, Radar's research indicated that there is a wide-ranging call for such alternatives. 81% indicated that they wanted a state bank. More alternatives are important. There is a clear call from society to control our money. In this respect, the current cabinet response does not respond sufficiently to this urgent social appeal. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's response to this debate, including the proposals we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. The initiators of Our Money have managed to put the subject of "money creation" on the agenda, not only in politics, but also wider in society. My heartfelt compliments on that. On behalf of D66, I would like to contribute to this discussion. In the meantime, I have had many debates, including a nice radio interview with Mr Van Houts and the round table in the Chamber at the end of last year. D66 agrees with the proposers that we should continue to look critically at the system. Does it fit in with the goals we are pursuing and how do we make it safer? In my contribution, I first deal with the concerns surrounding the current system, then with what we can do and finally with the deposit bank. I begin with concerns about the current system. The crisis has painfully exposed flaws in the financial system. For years risks have not been well priced, resulting in large bubbles. Huge losses have been passed on to the public. Banks were no longer in the service of the real economy. The main focus of lending was on mortgages and too little on real investment. Due to the high private debt, the financial crisis worked as a cluster bomb, a typical example of system failure. Not only the market failed, but also the government. The government has promoted debt through fiscal policy. Think of the mortgage interest deduction, but also the interest deduction for companies. Much has happened in recent years to make the system more robust and safer. I call the bail-in. Banks can no longer transfer losses to government, but are obliged to make losses to investors. Banks need to keep higher buffers. As far as D66 is concerned, they need to go up even further. Risks are better priced. The mortgage interest allowance has been reduced and must be paid back. Macro-prudential supervision has also been rigged to prevent credit bells. These have been fundamental changes, but we are not there yet. There are still inconveniences and mistrusts about the financial system. The financial system needs to be safer. According to D66, the solution is not to place money creation in the hands of a public authority. Evaluating the right amount of money is not an easy task and central planning is not a good experience. According to D66, the solution is right to spread power as much as possible. This can be achieved by increasing competition in the financial sector. In doing so, money creation takes place much more blunt-up and you use the "wisdom of the crowds." In addition, more competition means that the profits of money creation will end up with the customer and society as a whole. This is not an easy task. We are working to remove entry barriers to provoke more competition. At European level, we are also trying to prevent the emergence of new megabanks that can take the financial system hostage again. The government must also continue to focus on reducing subsidies on debt. That is why D66 and the Labour Party have tabled a motion to treat debt and equity more equally. Let us be honest, this is a long-term process, but the big challenge is not to slacken, especially when the worst crisis is over and the urgency has subsided. What can we do now? We can make safe choices. Now you only have the option to save in an old sock or at a bank, where your savings are also exposed to the risks of that bank. D66 wants to make it possible to also save at an institution that holds this money purely for you. Previously, the initiative for such a deposit bank was blocked, inter alia because the costs of participating in the deposit guarantee scheme are high. D66 has put written questions to the Minister. The Minister will include this request in his consultation with the supervisors on lowering the entry barriers for new innovative entrants. Can the Minister state how he stands in this situation himself? Should such a deposit bank be made possible in his view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr Koolmees pointed out that his idea of spreading power through more competition and more banks would be a solution. He thinks that the profits would end up in the hands of the citizens, but the more competition comes and the more commercial banks are spread, the more the profits will end up in the hands of the banks themselves and thus with the shareholders and the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	No, the central idea is, of course, that you invest in the economy. Apart from all the risks involved, an efficient allocation of investments is one of the useful functions of the financial sector. As a result, the economy can grow and the entrepreneur gets credit to invest. If only a limited number of players are active in the market, monopoly profits arise. Then the profits, as Mr Klein himself said, will be put in the pockets. It is precisely when you have more competition that the margin becomes smaller, because there is just more competition. As a result, there is more pressure on tariffs, leading to lower interest rates for entrepreneurs. This is good for investment and also for competition, so that society as a whole can benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	Finally, Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	If you have settled it nationally or in the hands of the government, those profits do not end up in the pockets of the company but in the hands of the government. Isn't this the same system as with the ECB, where all the money actually goes to companies without getting anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	That is exactly the fundamental point I raised in the text. The proposal of Our Money, as well as Mr Klein's, is about central planning of money, of the amount of money that should be available in the economy. We have very bad experiences with this, apart from the discussion about the fact that a public institution "a fourth power', as the initiators say, is very difficult to understand how much money is needed, with all the consequences of boom and bust cycles, precisely as a result of such a system. You will then have to ensure that all the questioners and providers of money can come together on the market, creating wisdom through hundreds of thousands of transactions, the wisdom of the great crowd. This is an efficient way of achieving the right money supply in the economy and also of achieving a democratic balance between demand, supply and price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	I wonder where Mr Koolmees gets his faith in the wisdom of the crowd. It was already there, because there were a lot of banks in the world and there was already a lot of wisdom. The bankers had also given themselves a great deal of wisdom: "Leave it to us, for we know what is best for you." But it went exactly the other way. I didn't see in the banking crisis that small banks were doing better than big ones. So I wonder whether Mr Koolmees does not express more wishful thinking about the effect of more competition in the financial sector than that he can actually say motivated and scientifically substantiated that it works that way if you create more competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	Let me answer Mr Grashoff's question in a different way. In the composition of the banking landscape in Europe we see different types of banks. Mr Grashoff has just mentioned listed banks, but of course there are also cooperative banks, state banks and regional banks of regional governments. If you look through your eye hairs at what has happened in Europe in recent years, you can see that in Spain and Germany, for example, the problems were not concentrated on the large listed banks but on the regional Landesbanks or on the cajas in Spain. On the contrary, politics has a very strong interest in these banks as regards the question of investment. It is precisely political direction and political pressure that create credit bubbles; look at the housing market in Spain. They also provide an unstable financial system and for not using the wisdom of the crowd. That is why this was the central point of my input: central planning from an independent monetary authority presupposes a great deal of information about the amount of money that should be available and where that money should be put. That information doesn't have central planning. Moreover, this system is very sensitive to political interference; look at the examples I have just mentioned of the Spanish Cajas and the German Landesbanks. So this is the answer to Mr Grashoff's question as to why I am really making a philosophical point here that undermines the substance of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	The origin of the financial crisis was in the mecca of free market thinking, the United States, and was entirely due to the operation of highly liberalised banking institutions and how they dealt with lending in the housing sector. Mr Koolmees knows this too. Apart from the fact that I will not argue that the State will determine exactly what needs to be done with any lending to anyone, it is doubtful whether there is any evidence that it will be better if there are more parties competing with each other. I did not hear this in Mr Koolmees' reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	The crisis has indeed started with a house bubble in the United States. I would like to make two nuances to Mr Grashoff's speech. I agree with him when he talks about advanced liberalisation, too little supervision and too little attention to the macroeconomic risks of bubbles of this kind. At the same time, I note that one of the main causes of the credit bubble in the United States was that President Bush said that everyone should buy their own house. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the United States bought all the mortgages sold by the banks, as it were, without thinking about the risks and without thinking about the price. As a result, the banks could continue to provide mortgages to people who had no income, no assets and no collateral. The result was indeed that bubble. I find it too easy to say that it is only the system of banks. I don't think so. I pointed out in my speech that we in the Netherlands blew up the bubble with the mortgage interest deduction, resulting in a mortgage debt of 650 billion. That is why I am so pleased that steps have been taken in recent years to reduce mortgage interest rate deductions, to better price risks and to make banks responsible for proper risk assessment. That is my answer to Mr Grashoff's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Is Mr Koolmees not describing the current situation? I'm gonna go back to what he just said. One of the causes of the problems was that banks were very easy to lend, and competition made it easier and easier to do so, which led to loans being granted at some point without anything being done. Mr Koolmees now argues that more competition should improve, but it will be even easier and even more tempting to conclude loans. You're about to get a bubble 2.0, which might be even bigger than the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	It is true that risks were not well priced in the run-up to the 2008-2009 credit crisis. Governments were going to guarantee all those issued mortgages, in the United States but also in the Netherlands, albeit to a much lesser extent, with the national mortgage guarantee. The assumption of the financial sector was: if things go wrong, we will be saved, because we are so crucial to the economy that the finance ministers will not let us destroy us. This perverse stimulus needs to get out of the system. To this end, we have taken great steps, for example, with the bail-in, the higher buffers, the European Banking Union, the supervision, but also with macro-prudential supervision. It is precisely to break the system that more and more debts are being paid out to the government under the motto: if it goes wrong, it is not our fault. We're on our way there, and we've taken big steps. I have just said that we are not here yet, but this is at the heart of the problem of the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	This system will not be broken if the granting of loans is made even easier by avoiding any form of central control and simply by promoting competition. It doesn't slow that system down, it stimulates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	I said in my speech that a lot has happened that I find positive like the European Banking Union, the higher buffers for banks, they have to hold much more own capital, the liquidity requirements, the leverage ratio, the bail-in and the reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction in the Netherlands. The fact that there is too little competition in the Dutch banking landscape allows a few banks to obtain some kind of monopoly profits from their position. It is precisely the combination of more supervision, better pricing of risks, more buffers in the system combined with more competition that makes the whole system more stable and safer. That is the path we must take, in D66's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	Of course, you can always call the Spanish Cajas and the German Landesbanks; these are just the bad examples. I could put Lehman Brothers against that. I think it's a little cherry picking from Mr Koolmees. However, I would like to comment on the 'wisdom of the crowd' mentioned by Mr Koolmees. Does he want to leave it all to the wisdom of the crowd? There's a huge information asymmetry, isn't there? This means that consumers should be fully aware of what a bank is going to do. I am in favour of greater transparency, but the question is whether consumers can have full control over it. Does Mr Koolmees agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	Yes. The first point, the Lehman Brothers, is the same as what I just said to Mr Grashoff. Lehman Brothers was able to take these risks because all mortgage products and their derivatives were taken over by the state bank Freddy Mae and Freddy Mac. The American president encouraged us to take on debt: everyone's own home, because it's gonna make you rich. Then the second point: is wisdom of the crowd enough? No, of course not. That is why I also spoke in my speech about macro-prudential supervision, and that is why we have been dealing with this legislation in recent years: Basel III, CRD IV, MREL and TLAC. These and all the other abbreviations that we have seen here in recent years are intended to make the financial system more stable and secure and to bring more buffers into the system so that if it goes wrong, the bill does not go back to the taxpayer. It is certainly not enough, but it is a very important step to increase competition and use the wisdom of the crowd for a. determining the optimal amount of money and b. for achieving a right price without generating excess profits for drivers, dixit Grashoff, who can put them in their pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	I missed the number portability, by the way. We were very much in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	I'll do it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	I would have expected that from Mr Koolmees. That would indeed be a good thing. I'm just gonna head over to the state bank anyway. Of course, with all those rules like MREL et cetera I agree; this needs to be tightened up. However, it is also about the diversity of the banking landscape, so that there is something to choose for consumers. I wonder why Mr Koolmees is so opposed to a state-owned bank. We've had the Postbank. The Postbank was a bank that worked fine and was innovative. Why does Mr Koolmees oppose a sound bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	You have to distinguish between two things. Indeed, I am not in favour of state-owned banks. I have two reasons for that. Firstly, I refer to unfair competition with the rest of the market. That's a very wrong playing field. Secondly, I refer to what happened to the Postbank. The Postbank model was untenable at that time. That is why it has also been incorporated in ING. I agree with Mr Merkies on the diverse banking landscape. I also think that we should have different banks in the Netherlands: listed banks, cooperative banks, smaller niche banks, sustainable banks. If it is up to D66, SNS remains, now in the hands of the State, a small retail bank, a utility bank, focused on simple loans and simple mortgages without too much financial hocuspocus. Then you will indeed provide a diverse banking landscape. If that is Mr Merkies' approach, I very much agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I thank the initiators and all their supporters for the Ons Geld initiative. It is a great achievement to collect so many signatures, to get them on the parliamentary agenda and to ensure that hearings are held in the Chamber. What is even more important is that the debate is opened in the wider society. I myself was allowed to look at De Verleiders in the theatre in Utrecht. It was nice to see how such an important social theme was treated so sharply and with so much humour. It is good that we are discussing this today. Once again, I would like to congratulate you on that. I agree with the initiators that there is much wrong in the financial sector, in the financial system. I also think that six, seven or eight years ago there was much more wrong with the financial system. The crisis has caused enormous suffering to people and countries; think of unemployment. The crisis led to a massive deconfiture. This was because the free market was allowed to operate, the government was not doing its job, regulators were undersupervised and bankers were reckless. They are, of course, ultimately responsible for the survival of banks. In the end, we had to nationalise two of the four major banks in the Netherlands and provide one bank with state aid. That's a bad thing. Previous speakers such as Mr Grashoff, but also Mr Koolmees, who went a little further into it, mentioned how many measures have already been taken to make the financial sector healthier again. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the main measures are: the higher buffers; the requirement for investors to pay for losses and not taxpayers; the ban on commissioning so that we can no longer apply products, as in the past; the bonus legislation, the strictest in Europe, so that we can no longer fill our pockets with the sale of products because it has been Maximised. A lot's happened. Are we there? If all this had happened, you wouldn't need such a citizens' initiative. No, we're far from there. The sector is far from healthy. This is also demonstrated by people's confidence, as was surveyed last week in a Radar survey. You can check every survey, including those of the bankers themselves about their functioning: the confidence is not back. That's perfectly right. I call on the Minister to focus on three issues and to make changes to them. The first theme is the separation of utility and business banking. This discussion has not been very much conducted in recent times, but it is important. There must be a limit on banks investing in savings on their own account and at risk. Proposals for this have been developed in Europe, but they have not yet been transposed into legislation. The PvdA Group is asking the Minister to speed up this process. The European Parliament must be on its feet and the Netherlands must use its position as President of the Eurogroup. The second theme is the deposit bank, also advocated by the initiators. It is not easy to start a bank in the Netherlands. That is not entirely wrong, because we have had the situation with Icesave. However, a deposit bank has the characteristic that it only manages the savings and no longer takes up the farmer. The risks are more limited. The PvdA Group is in favour of making it easier to set up such a bank so that people can choose to bank in it. Is the Minister prepared to do so? The third issue is the transparency of decision-making in the financial sector. There is still a great deal of discussion in back rooms about technically complex proposals. I mentioned the buffer requirement: the leverage ratio. What exactly is the definition of that? And is it not being eroded through the lobby and through central bankers who decide on this in Basel? And what about the applicability of internal risk models, which can also undermine legal requirements? At the initiative of the PvdA, and with the support of colleagues, we are happy to discuss this tomorrow with the Basel Committee. What is the Minister's agenda to make this more transparent? The legislator must restrict bankers, which must reduce the risks to society. Banks don't do that themselves, and regulators won't do that on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	I have not heard Mr Nijboer talk about models for banks. He has previously given his full support for the return of ABN AMRO to the market. That bank is large and quoted on the stock market and is therefore still focused on profit maximization. In my contribution, I suggested, among other things, that other legal forms should also be examined, which means that we do not always have to go into that black and white discussion about state bank and listed private banks. Can Mr Nijboer indicate whether he thinks that is a sensible approach and would he support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	I hear this question a bit like: what do you want with SNS? After all, it is still in state hands. The PvdA Group has clearly indicated in the General Financial Reviews that we do not want to bring SNS to the market. We are in favour of keeping her first in the hands of the state and perhaps transferring her as a pension fund in the long term, but certainly not to bring her to the market now. That's how her utility character is preserved. That is precisely because of the diversity that Mr Grashoff wants: different types of banks with different legal forms. ING is a listed bank and ABN AMRO will become one again. We also have a cooperative bank: the Rabobank. Furthermore, there are some smaller banks. We would therefore have a long-term bank in state hands. The PvdA thinks that's a good thing. In the course of the Financial Reviews, I have therefore argued in favour of carrying out an orderly investigation, because that is how we do it here. The Minister has agreed to make that investigation possible. The position of the PvdA in this regard is therefore known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	It is good to hear that position again, because I am not unaware of that position. I believe that we can take this further in the discussion on SNS. It remains a fact that the vast majority of our banks are listed on the stock market, that they are the major banks in particular and that they do book their profits through money creation. In this way, the profits on other people's debts ultimately benefit the shareholders of those banks. I am curious to see what Mr Nijboer is looking at from his social democratic background.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	I'm really into diversity. I also think that people should have a choice. Therefore, I support the possibility of banking at a deposit bank. This will cost the consumer money, because his investment will not be lent so that interest may come in again, but it is really safe. Mr Koolmees has asked questions about this before. So that money isn't loaned out for anything else. I think it's a good thing there's such a choice. I'm also okay with having a co-op. That's why I'm very opposed to Rabobank going public. Furthermore, I find nothing wrong with the fact that there are private initiatives. I'm gonna let them in society, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr Nijboer embraced the initiative and spoke nicely about it, but then he did nothing about it. I would like to ask him some specific questions so that the people here and the viewers at home know where the PvdA really stands when it comes to the citizens' initiative Our Money. Is Mr Nijboer prepared to force the Minister more or less to have the alternative money system investigated? What the citizens' initiative wants Our Money, the minister doesn't want. Is the PvdA prepared to move the Minister to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	I believe that money creation should be left to independent central bankers, as it is now. The central bank determines by means of interest rate decisions and other decisions how much money is in circulation and how banks can or cannot lend money. I don't think politicians should. If we were to do so within the euro area, this would mean that we in the Chamber, as well as our Portuguese, Cypriot, Italian and German colleagues, would ultimately decide how much money is in circulation. Politicians with the hand on the crane, however, are a recipe for misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	The minister has to deal with powerful bankers he has to negotiate with. He needs a lot of support from the Chamber. We can see that a number of parties are giving support. It would be good if the PvdA sided with the 120,000 people and the millions of people behind them, so that our money would be our money again. It would be a good thing if the minister were not afraid of those powerful bankers and could provide a system on the basis of which the people are again talking about the money. That is why I once again ask Mr Nijboer, as a Social Democrat who says he is there for the people, to support the Minister so that our money becomes our money again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	I am in favour of very strict regulation of banks. I'm in favour of higher buffers. We have now agreed on 4%, but I want to move towards 10%. The bankers are fiercely opposed to that. When we went from 3% to 4%, they were already screaming in the front of the eight-hour report of the NOS murder and fire. I'm in favour of the bonuses being limited. The bankers are also very opposed to this. I'm in favour of separating business and utility banking, getting the banking system healthy again. Over and over again, on behalf of the PvdA, I make practical proposals that improve the system, precisely in order to restore the health of the financial sector. I have done a number of them again today. I'll keep doing that. I know the Minister as someone who dares to go ahead, on European banking supervision, on buffers and on bonuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	I think Mr Nijboer would do justice to the initiators by quoting them correctly. They did not talk about politicians with their hands on the money tap. They have proposed an authority for that purpose. My question is about SNS. The PvdA has previously proposed not to bring ABN AMRO to the market. That bank eventually went to the stock market, but well, now I think: new rounds, new opportunities. I also hear a small way out, or a hatch. Mr Nijboer spoke about pension funds or long-term investors. My question is what Mr Nijboer means by that in particular. What he means by pension funds, I understand, but who does he think is covered by long-term investors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	In the Netherlands we actually have four large banks: ING, Rabobank, ABN AMRO and SNS. I wouldn't think it very healthy to have two of those four banks in state hands while one bank, ING, is supported by the State. That is why ABN AMRO was able to go to the market; we have debated it extensively. For SNS, that's really different. I think SNS can get a different identity. SNS itself wants that, too. That also fits SNS better, because SNS is more of a utility bank. That is what I am in favour of. Long-term investors include pension funds, but also insurance companies that build a pension. I think we should keep SNS in state hands first. I ask the Minister to investigate whether there are opportunities for long-term investors. However, the PvdA is not in favour of bringing the bank to the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	It would be clearer if Mr Nijboer simply said that SNS should remain in state hands. Then it's clear. It would be clearer if Mr Nijboer simply said: the SNS Bank should remain in state hands. Then there's clarity. Now he keeps saying: for example, this, for example, the insurers. Then I don't know what's gonna happen. Then you might sell it to a long-term investor. It may also be private equity, which Mr Nijboer is very critical of. And then he sells it again. So how can you be sure? Wouldn't it be clearer if you just said, "SNS Bank stays in state hands?"
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	I think that's an attractive model, but you have to work it out. I've asked the Minister to work out if that's possible. The PvdA Group feels very strongly about that. Next Monday we will have a debate on private equity on the initiative paper of my colleague Mr Groot and I. Mr Merkies knows me well enough to know that, as far as I am concerned, that will never happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators on having put the issue of money creation and the power of the banks on the agenda. Chapeau! Because it lives with 113,000 signatures, it turns out. For the PVV it has been a thorn in the eye for a long time that we are no longer the boss in our own country. We have nothing more to say about our monetary policy, because that lies with the ECB. Our budgetary and migration policies are in Brussels. The credit is entirely with the banks and we have nothing more to say about our borders either, because that is Schengen. So we have completely out of control. That's the same as a director of a play who has nothing more to say. Everything is determined for him. I'd say that's what the Leaders have to say. The ECB's kamikaze policy also shows that we are completely out of control. Interest rates are zero and 80 billion are pumped into the economy every month, the European economy is well understood. This is good for debt countries and for zombie banks, but disastrous for our pensions, as it turns out. The retirement pots are vaporizing in front of us. In Italy it is a celebration and in the Netherlands we can cut pensions. All the ECB's policies are aimed at promoting the capital market in the hope of continuing to buy Italian paper and provide credit. The banks are the fourth power. They've got us in the shit. We are being held hostage by the Goldman Sachsen of this world. If these decisions to stop buying Italian government papers, Italy will go bankrupt. And who gets the bill? The Dutch taxpayer. We saw that in Greece. If banks decide to stop lending to SMEs, it will bankrupt SMEs. We saw that in the crisis, with mass failures and mass redundancies. The PVV, like the initiators, wants to break this deadlock, preferably by stepping out of the euro, so that at least we are again in charge of our own monetary policy. This is good for the economy and for our pensions. Within the euro, we are at the mercy of the ECB. The citizens' initiative, on the other hand, proposes putting money creation back into public hands, but as long as we are in the euro, I would not want the Greeks to run the money supply. That's asking for trouble. The banks grant credit and are therefore monetary institutions. The question is, however, also to this minister, whether the banks can do this unlimitedly. I read in the letter that, according to the Minister, there is a brake on it, but that brake doesn't mean much. The demand for credit is decisive, which is determined by interest rates and also a little bit by capital costs, when external financing is required. The question to the Minister is whether that brake is sufficient. Because it looks like all the brakes are loose. It is made very easy for the banks to make money. Lots of money! The money supply at the ECB is wide open. Banks can collect free money from the counter, which they can then lend to us for fat profits. Then why do I have to pay so much interest on my mortgage? Banks receive it free of charge, either from the ECB or by creating it themselves. Then why am I paying 4.5%? It is therefore high time for a solid counterpart to break the power of commercial banks. We had a nice post giro bank and a state savings bank is, as far as PVV is concerned, a desirable addition. We can secure savings there and we can get loans there without a profit. There's a need for that. That's also apparent from the Radar investigation. Two years ago, we tabled motions on this subject that did not make it at the time. However, I believe that the time is right, also with the SNS story on the retina, that we should return to a post giro bank, a state bank, and that we can break the power of commercial banks by doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the initiators who have put on the agenda an in themselves difficult issue of money creation and have launched a fundamental discussion on it. It is about the foundations of the banking system, not about a side issue. It is also logical that this point should be highlighted once after eight years of financial crisis. The banking system is still not stable and still poses risks to the state treasury, although they have been reduced by a number of interventions. There are banks such as Deutsche Bank which have large derivative positions and which are difficult to solve as interest rate derivatives for SMEs, and in Italy the government simply guarantees bad loans again. I would therefore like to thank the initiators for putting this on the agenda. After the crisis, it is good to look closely at how the money system works, but the solutions of the proposers are not yet ours. Not only does public money creation not fit well with the current monetary union, it also poses new political risks. The initiative links European economic stagnation to the non-functioning monetary system. We see this stagnation much more as a result of low demographic growth and, more importantly, the lack of reform in part of southern Europe. The initiative would like to see a more political role for the money-creating body. That body should stimulate our economy or take a role in redistributing prosperity. We're out of line. We believe, on the contrary, that many of the problems have just begun with the role that the European Central Bank itself has now assumed. The ECB was never meant to become the largest buyer of debt securities in the world. However, the ECB is on its way to this: the bank has already bought up EUR 1,288 billion in debt. The ECB is going to speed this up to €80 billion per month. Is that staggering? Oh, yeah. For each family of two parents and two children in monetary union, the ECB has now bought a sloppy €14,000 in government debt. Each month, the ECB buys €1,000 in bonds on behalf of that family. That is a form of monetary financing. Soon the ECB will even release the limit of a third of any debt. As a result, the ECB will play a central role in the economic system. With each debt restructuring, the bank has a blocking role. That was never the intention of a central bank, and that is why we think that such a fourth power can never be completely separated from politics. However, this does not mean that the CDA is satisfied with the current monetary system, with a central bank acting as a "buyer of last resort" of any government bond, but there is not for the citizen who cannot secure his money. This is the reverse world, if you consider what these institutions are for. Now it is a little too much to ask here in the House of Representatives today to map out all the defects of the current banking system, let alone I reassure you, President-in-Office, that it can be done in the four minutes that you give me for this. The CDA Group therefore proposes that this issue be placed with the Government Policy Scientific Council and asked the WRR to issue an opinion on this matter as a matter of urgency. It concerns the banking system, the role of the central banks, utility banks and business banks, as has already been mentioned here: not as an indictment, but to see how the system can be improved and perhaps even thoroughly renovated. So we are talking about the role of the banks in vital matters for society, such as payments and the security of our savings, but also about the monetary function of the central banks and the risks of money creation in central and commercial banks. Does the banking union deserve tightening up in order to find a solution? What role can the Dutch government play in this? We have only one question for the government: is it prepared to submit this problem to the Scientific Council for Government Policy in the research programme? There are also a number of excellent monetary economists involved at the moment. They can certainly ask for some outside help, even for people who are interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators of the citizens' initiative on placing the issue of money creation on the agenda of the House of Representatives. Monetary policy is one of the most impenetrable aspects of economic policy. What is money and how does it come about? That's an easy question with a surprisingly complicated answer. We have examined this question intensively over the last few years. In society but also here you noticed the feeling that it had to be different. The crisis has shown that the banking sector needed to change. The VVD also supported reforms that should lead to banks that are primarily for consumers, for the entrepreneur who wants credit and for the starting family who wants to buy a house. Banks should not be primarily for bankers. The free market and free trade have brought great prosperity to the world, but also require liberals to take a good look at where order is needed to deal with abuse. In recent years, therefore, there have been many tightenings which have strengthened the protection of consumers and taxpayers against risks in the financial system. We even expressed our opinion on monetary policy last year, when the Lower House, on the initiative of the VVD, questioned the policy of the ECB, with more than a trillion euros of bonds being bought up. As Mr Knot said at the time in the House of Representatives: that's a lot of money for a few base points of inflation. The ECB is also becoming more transparent step by step, making it visible that monetary operations, Draghi's policy, can also have negative effects. We shall soon be discussing this in detail in another debate. Although the VVD is always willing to discuss monetary policy, this does not mean that we agree with the citizens' initiative's plan. In fact, I think that the system proposed by the initiative can cause more problems than the current one. I would like to clarify three objections. The first objection is the money supply, which must be determined by a public institution, a kind of super central bank. The first thought that gets to me is: if we have been grinning over the ECB over the last few days, then we certainly should not want to build a super-ECB. A government bank, an institution that determines the money supply, sounds nice, but is a kind of communist system that the government is not capable of at all. Moreover, I fear that it will be a little too tempting for politicians to turn on the money press when you can just make money. Nor can we count on our support for the plea for lending in the terminology of the citizens' initiative: money creation from commercial banks. In fact, this amounts to borrowing from the government. So the government determines how much mortgage for your home, credit for your shop or interest on your savings account you get. Oh, no, not the last one, because from now on, you're gonna pay to keep your savings. That could be a wish from people. This is how the full-reserve bank works, but people will still look for a bit more return and a bit more profitable investment. Where this can now be done through the banking system, this will be a more risky investment, where the question is whether everyone is looking at the risks properly. Finally, the initiators also indicate that the Netherlands is not an island and cannot go on its own into a new form of money creation. That's right. I do not think that the concept has been applied anywhere before is helping to convince other countries. These are three objections, but there are more. I could therefore agree with the Minister's detailed and well-balanced response to the initiative. With the initiators and many people in the country, we share one goal: a stable financial and monetary system, which creates prosperity for the Netherlands and does not undermine it. However, when it comes to the way in which our paths are separated. There is no free money and completely risk-free investment. Therefore, the VVD does not see a solution in the initiative. However, we can see the benefits of reforms which make the financial sector a normal sector in the economy. A bank that falls over should not be saved by the government, but by the investors, as also happens with the baker on the corner. We have taken great steps in this direction by establishing a European bail-in instead of a bail-out, and by the banking union. These useful reforms should ensure that banks do not take megalomaniac risks in money creation or, as I call it, credit, while at the same time continuing to play the useful role of financing the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	I have heard the speech, but what amazes me very much is what is happening now. Boosting debt and even more debt, as is done by the banks, but also by the ECB, by spending more and more money, cannot be the solution to the problem either. That's exactly what caused the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Respond to that. You say that there must be no central control and we must leave it in the hands of the commercial parties. But I am saying that this is what caused the problems to a large extent. Those commercial parties, whether banks or not, encourage debt-making. As a result, the problems arose in 2008. This also creates problems, for example by reducing savings rates to close to 0%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	Not every fault is wrong. If you're making a debt and borrowing money because you're going to make more money in the future and thereby, as it were, borrowing from your own future, that's not wrong. What is wrong is that too many risks are taken and banks no longer know whether that debt can be repaid at all. This is precisely the role that the government must play in our view: to grant a banking licence and to look closely at the risks that banks take. Then you have to make sure that banks take the responsibility not to cause debts to people and companies who can never repay the money. Those risks need to be weighed up. Mr Wassenberg starts by saying that every debt is wrong, but it is not. It's about the risks. You gotta keep a close eye on that one. Good supervision is required there. This has been strengthened in recent years, including with our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	Either I misread myself or Mr Harbers misunderstood me, but I did not say that every fault is wrong. I said it was wrong to have an economy that is actually entirely based on debt and debt. That's what caused the problems. There you should see if you can't have a central direction to prevent people from just sticking themselves in debt, debt and even more debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	It is not the case that the economy is based solely on debt, and certainly not in the Netherlands. This is one of the few countries where huge savings are made, including for our own future, see pension systems. I can't do much with this because it's some kind of caricature that just isn't true. Let me go with Mr Wassenberg and assume that it is true. Then the government is some sort of market master. It does not have to do the money creation itself or determine the money supply. The government can also come a long way through supervision, regulation of banks and guidelines on the risks you can accept and which you can't, without having to go straight to the radical solution of the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	I'm hearing a denial of the major debt problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	Is that a denial of the retirement pots?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	I want to emphasize the split that the VVD is in. We must never talk about monetary policy, about the ECB. Mr Harbers is talking about grinding teeth. Mr Wiebes said: is it enough if I look angry? That's crazy. What is Mr Harbers trying to say? In fact, he says: it's fine that the ECB is pumping 80 billion into the economy every month, not in the real economy, but in money bubbles?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	The ECB is independent and is working towards achieving the inflation target. The ECB believes that this is necessary. As a politician, we must not give orders to a central bank. We didn't do that when we had the guilder and De Nederlandsche Bank and we don't do that now that we have the euro and the European Central Bank. This is without prejudice to the possibility of commenting occasionally on major events in this area. I think last week's decision and a year ago's decision was such a decision. That's why I'm grinding my teeth. This policy may be good for the euro area as a whole from the ECB's point of view, but it is currently affecting the Netherlands. I am just sick of that and with me a lot of people in the Netherlands, up to and including our central bank president, who reportedly voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	Grinding teeth can't do anything politically. If you're against it, speak up. We're talking about $80 billion every month in these money bubbles. Indeed, this leads to more inflation of capital titles. It leads to higher shares and bonds and bubbles. It does not lead to the goal of preventing a normal deflation. Why doesn't Mr Harbers just want to say that he doesn't agree with that policy? In fact, he actually accepts the ECB's policy, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	I told you last week in the media and today, I'm just sick of this decision. At the same time, we have organised it in such a way that the central bank operates independently. I'm still in favour of that. In recent years, the central bank has often made decisions that I supported, but now I have a comment to make. That doesn't change the reality, because I think the alternative that the government has to decide on this policy is even more fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	I am glad that Mr Harbers is also waking up and seeing what we have been doing with the ECB. It is now clear how favourable the euro is. My question is about something else. Does Mr Harbers not think that the banks have systematically fooled us with the funding gap they are always talking about? They always say: if we give a mortgage, we have to raise that money in the external market, because we have a funding gap and not enough savings to finance all these credits; we pay a little more interest for it and so the consumer is worse off than the consumer in Germany. Does Mr Harbers think that is a good argument, or is that pure for the sake of mad farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	First of all, it is the reasoning of those who run a business on that basis, and those are banks. I think this proves that there is supervision. If banks say that they cannot attract sufficient funding, then it also means that it is not just money creation out of nowhere and that there is still something against it, namely the financing that the bank needs to attract. We know that this is a bigger problem in the Netherlands than in other countries, especially in recent years. We also know that our savings are also present in different places than the banks, for example pension funds. So that must have been a valid argument on the part of the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	The eye-opener, thanks to the citizens' initiative, is that the banks do not need external funding at all. They just need a little buffer. If you borrow two tons from the bank, it's just written in the books. This is how credit is created on paper. Okay, they're supposed to pick up a 4% buffer, but that's free at the ECB counter. For the rest they have free money, while they charge you a risk margin, a profit margin and a capital margin. So you pay 4.5%, while they write it virtually for free in the books, while they collect the money found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	No. This proves, in particular, that there are still guarantees about lending, but it also confirms the plea that the VVD also stands for to look at the entry barriers on the Dutch market. Should it be easier to get a bank license? Can you get more diversity along that path? Can you get more competition? Ultimately, tariffs are determined by the nature of the market, by the number of suppliers and whether it is a monopoly or not. We are very much in favour of considering whether we can make it more attractive by way of regulation for other parties to enter the Dutch market. In this way, tariffs can be put under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr Van Dijck, you may ask another question, because this is only your first interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	I can see how these entry barriers are so high, because if you give someone a bank license, you're gonna give him the jackpot, as it were. I would also like a banking permit if I can provide loans so easily without the need for external parties where I have to collect that money. I can then write credits virtually in the books and only keep a small buffer of 4%. That's a jackpot, right? That's a gift to the banks: here you have the money tap, do something nice with it and add those billions to your own bank account? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	This is a very strange circular reasoning. Precisely because we want to control risks in that system and precisely because you want to keep an eye on the risks of lending, you need a banking licence and supervision is needed. That doesn't mean that the government has to take over all these actions itself. I am convinced that it will be worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	I think it's a little simple that I see only a bummer, Mr Harbers. Can Mr Harbers make it concrete? If he's upset, he's gonna have to do something at some point. That's his responsibility, isn't it? So can he indicate in concrete terms how he can turn his bales into actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr Omtzigt already asked that question. Last year, as a Chamber, we expressed our concerns about the ECB's policy, but I do not then instruct the government to do anything about it. I won't cross that bridge. Then you come to the central bank in the spirit of political tasks, and I do not want them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	Finally, Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Isn't that the function of the public authorities and in this context also of the ECB? That function is to give direction. That is why there are the rules of the game that we have agreed with each other, including international rules, and they are also controlled by the public authorities, including by the activities of the Ecofin Council. This does not happen directly but indirectly, but does Mr Harbers have a indirect responsibility in that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	We have taken this responsibility by indicating that, as far as we are concerned, the Central Bank must be an independent central bank when the currency union is being created.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	When I hear Mr Harbers like that, I understand that he is not doing anything about the citizens' initiative on our money. He speaks some nice words, he talks about worry and bummer, but in the end he says: boys, you've all signed, but the VVD doesn't do anything with it. 46% of SME credit applications are now rejected. 16% to 17% do not even apply. The VVD says she's an entrepreneurial party. But banks make sure that entrepreneurs don't get credit. Banks ensure that entrepreneurs cannot grow, and this minister does not dare to tackle the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	My question is what the VVD will do to get this minister to deal with the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	I am not in favour of that. First of all, it would be strange if one citizens' initiative were to be accepted equally by the full diversity of all 150 Members of Parliament. I'm not the only one today who doesn't support the citizens' initiative. Apart from that, lending, including lending to SMEs, has been a problem in recent years, but fortunately, more and more banks have brought it back into the elevator. Fortunately, this also shows the signs of economic recovery. As a result, more investment is being made and more viable applications are being made to banks. However, I would not like to go back to the days when everyone, so to speak, received equal credit without a proper test of whether the entrepreneur in question is ever able to repay the money. It must be based on something. Fortunately, this type of request is again strongly supported by the economic recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	Apparently, Mr Harbers has not spoken to entrepreneurs lately and has not seen the figures. We are the worst lenders in the whole euro area. We're doing worse than Greece. Even in Greece, entrepreneurs get credit faster and better. Mr Harbers then says: things are better. But we are doing it the worst of the whole euro area. Mr Harbers, as a VVD member, on behalf of an entrepreneurial party, simply let down all those entrepreneurs who cannot get credit. He doesn't handle the banks. There's a minister over there who wouldn't dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr Öztürk...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mr Harbers should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	There is something different about this and that is that the Netherlands is fortunately not in the upper regions either when it comes to banks with non-performance loans, so loans that are never repaid. Even if it is true what is said about Greece, I think we will soon have some other discussions about Greece. Fortunately, the dust comb just went through the benches. That was also necessary, precisely because there were too many non-performing loans from the banks there. I wouldn't want to live in a country where we have that type of bank. Then I'll be more for what we're doing here. I am in favour of orderly supervision of banks and proper identification of risks. With this you lay a much firmer foundation, also for the entrepreneur who does get credit, so that he can actually start doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	Mr. Chairman. The Citizens' Initiative Our Money is about control and trust. I agree with the initiators that we are rapidly losing control and confidence in our money. Pensions are being cut. Older people, but especially younger generations, will increasingly suffer from this. Savings do not yield anything and the worst part is: there is no prospect of any improvement. Recently, the ECB has put a little bit of effort on top of it. A foolish action, which amounts to gambling with our money as a bet. Irresponsible. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet response to the initiative is inadequate. It completely ignores the commitment of the citizens' initiative: how to regain confidence and how to give back control of our money to the people. The Secretary of State may be more active. Today's debate must be a start. The urgent core advice of Our Money is: give people more control. The Liberal Party wholeheartedly agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiators and to the members of the Chamber for this debate. We have, especially in recent years, talked a lot about the banks, the financial system, credit and the impact on our economy and our society. A lot has been done incredibly. However, this debate, which goes all the way back to the heart of monetary policy, money creation and the question of who is going to do so, has never been conducted with this focus. I think it's good that that happens now. I also think that this is a nice and important debate. The alternative, suggested by the initiators, touches on the core of what the financial sector is doing and what it should do well, namely dealing with supporting and creating economic developments and opportunities, knowing, understanding and pricing the risks, and putting that price in the right place in a good way. This is at the heart of what financial service providers, banks and other investors and lenders should be able to do. It is also at the heart of what has gone wrong in the run-up to the financial crisis. At that time, risks were not recognised or completely underestimated and governments encouraged citizens to take on more credit than they could bear. Mr Harbers and Mr Koolmees, as well as others, have already referred to this. The risks didn't get a price that really expressed those risks. Many people who took credit, but also investors who put their money in the financial sector and in financial products, therefore had a keen eye for what potential profits there were.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They could not see through them either and therefore did not make the right balance between profit and loss, between risk and return. Governments have played a role in this, the banks and the financial sector have played a role in it, but the citizens themselves have played a part in it. That is one of the reasons why we are now more paternalistic in policy than in the past. We're protecting people from the opportunities in credit. We are far from getting rid of this problem, because it takes a very long time for a debt crisis to be resolved. The responsibility for overdrafting and the mountain of debt lies not only with the banks. That would be too easy. This would be a really wrong analysis, because the core of a number of incentives is greed and a misjudgement of the risks. If that is the core issue of the financial sector, then you need to focus on it. Mr Merkies asked the simple question as to whether the alternative was possible. Theoretically, and perhaps also practically, but we don't know that we could do it. If you created a whole new system, you could design it differently. The ideas of the initiators are not new in a number of respects. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the public role in money creation and the creation of a genuine deposit bank, which is not new in that sense either. I do not mean that annoying, but since the last financial crisis in the 1930s this has been considered and written. In the United States there has been a lot of discussion about it, but it never happened in practice. I'm not saying it couldn't be done. To Mr Merkies' question, therefore, I have to say that it could indeed be done. However, we have to ask ourselves very carefully whether the alternative system eliminates the risks. I don't think that's the case. That's why we need to think this through. Some consider the measures we have taken in recent years to be very far-reaching, while others consider them superficial and say they do not touch the core. I think they hit the core because they had a very strong connection with this. Are banks capable of taking blows themselves if losses are incurred? If the risk arises, can they take it on their own? Are investors able to do so and do they know in advance what risks they are running? Are these risks well priced and are they able to cope with those risks if the bank falls over or if the investment fails? Do consumers always know what is risky and where they bet their money? Can consumers always know that? Those questions are also important for the alternative, because also in the alternative in which you create the possibility for citizens to move their savings completely safely, without interest but without risk, people keep the possibility of not putting the money all the way there, but of investing, investing or making it available in loans. I will come back in a moment to the way in which you can make that possible in practice. In any case, it is theoretically entirely possible. Man has many strengths, but also some weaknesses. One of the weaknesses will be that he will not move his money completely safely, but will also look for returns. Also in the system of initiators, in which a free credit market can be created which requires much less supervision and less regulation, citizens will put some of their money on investment accounts and run risks. I do not serve it, but we have to realise that in the alternative system too, money is still being lent out, risky to companies. People are still coming to a window. Nor is it the case that commercial banks no longer exist in the alternative, as I understand it. They still exist. They are still lending to companies and there is a risk. That risk still has to be priced. Can the alternative lead to financial and economic crises in the future? Oh, yeah. Bubble formation can still be done, because in the sphere of investment and lending very bad decisions can be made. The alternative certainly has attractive sides, but also many questions. The key question remains whether risks are properly managed and made manageable and whether, if they occur, we can deal with them in such a way that society does not suffer as much damage as happened in 2007 and 2008. This question is still fully covered in the alternative. Still, a number of elements of the alternative are interesting to think further about. I shall come back to that in the last part of my speech. What have we done in the current system? We've done fundamental things differently. Not only have we ensured that banks apply much higher capital ratios, so we need reserves. They must have their own capacity to cope with any loss and not become immediately unstable or to fall. We have given the central banks the power to impose additional buffer requirements on top of that. For example, the Netherlands has a concentrated banking sector. We have four large banks, or actually three large banks and one intermediate. That brings with it extra risks. If we had 20 similar banks and two were to fall over, we would be able to cope with that. With a good deposit guarantee scheme, I say after it. However, we have four large banks. If one of them falls over, it's gonna have big effects. One of the additional buffer requirements imposed by the Dutch Bank is on these large banks. After all, there is an extra risk there. The banking supervisor may also impose other buffer requirements. If the bank supervisor considers that bubble formation is going to occur, that too much credit is being provided in a particular sector or in the Dutch economy in general, it can put a brake on it by imposing additional buffer requirements on that bank. That makes lending more expensive, more difficult, and it slows down. That is one of the new instruments we have. Of course, we also have the leverage ratio. That's the simplest capital requirement. A very important point... that is always difficult to explain... is bail-in. In the course of the financial crisis, we have, in simple terms, helped the banks with public money every time. The risks were not priced, banks had no money on their bones and could not cope with the risks and investors could not be tackled. What's going on? The case is falling apart. That cannot happen, of course, because it is about our savings and our economy. Then we save the banks with public money. That's what happened. Bail-out is what we call it. We have radically reversed this thinking. It has been gradual, but the most exciting moment in that reversal was the rescue of the banking sector in Cyprus. That was a very large banking sector with a lot of foreign money. Threatened to fall, knocking down the entire island's economy. The question to Europe was: can you save us? At that time it was said that all those investors in those banks, who sometimes had large amounts of money, had to pay for it: not the government, not the taxpayer and not the European taxpayer, but the private investor who had made good returns in that same banking sector for many years now gets the bill. That's bail-in instead of bail-out. That's fundamental. For all European banks, it has now been established that we will do so in the future. Why have a number of banks, for example in Italy and Portugal, been rapidly restructured just before the end of last year? That was because these stricter rules entered into force on 1 January. Yes, Mr. Ommzigt. Some people got restless, but for me it was a signal that the Banking Union is working. The Italian banks are now being forced to deal with a number of issues for the first time. The next time that is precisely the reason why there is now such a fierce social debate in Italy, bail-in has been applied. The nasty thing was that many ordinary pensioners had their assets in bank bonds. That, of course, led to a lot of political protests. The principle that investors should start to think better about where the risk is and what they put their money in, because they have to pay the bill when it goes wrong with such an institution, is very good. This is also widely supported in the Chamber. It's a fundamental reversal. Yes, that led to unrest among investors in the financial markets at the beginning of the year. Suddenly, questions came up about Deutsche Bank. Even then they asked, "Oh, my God, is the policy okay?" Yeah, the policy's good. For the first time, investors are going to look much more critically at what risks are still present in banks in Europe. If I am to be attacked as an investor, I want to see, understand and praise it in advance and I want to be able to step out of it. These are mechanisms that were fundamentally inadequate for the crisis. We are now trying, I think, to change it fundamentally. Are we done? No, not at all. There are still a lot of discussions to be had. As a result of the economic crisis, there are still many bad loans in bank balance sheets. They need to be cleaned up so that there is more room for healthy credit to new entrepreneurs. Capital requirements need to be raised even further, as many spokesmen have said. In the Netherlands they are already higher than in Europe. We also have to finish the discussion on the restructuring of banks, the separation of utility and business. There are proposals from the Commission. Ministers have already taken a position at the European Council. We are now waiting for the European Parliament. This six months we are also President of the Ecofin Council. I said to the European Parliament: do me a favor, you have to come out together, so that we in Brussels will negotiate with each other to finish this. Many major steps have been taken since the banking crisis, but the step of separating utility and business banks has not yet been taken. Mr Nijboer is right that this must be done quickly. For example, a lot of things have changed fundamentally. Now back to the initiative. A few things are essential to me. First of all, the cabinet is not in favour of making money towards the public, considering everything, because it is a question of whether a public institution can assess the need for credit at any time. The initiators talk about liberalising the credit market, but if you really want to liberalise it, then you have to accept the following. The demand for credit must, of course, be assessed critically: is that a good question? In other words, not everyone gets credit. That would be dangerous. We examine whether people have a good business plan, whether the money can be repaid, whether a particular citizen is creditworthy and whether his income flow is sufficient to pay off the mortgage. If that is the case, then that credit should be able to be granted. The question is whether this will not lead to overdrafting, because the banks are constantly spending money. They make a profit on that. To this end, we have the instruments of capital requirements and buffer requirements and, on the other hand, a loan to value ratio. Citizens should not just borrow more than the value of the house they buy, also to protect them. I told you, there are also paternalistic elements in the system. We want to protect people, too. So, credit isn't exactly unlimited. On the other hand, there is also just a commercial incentive in it. A bank must also make profits and has owners and investors. It must therefore also consider whether it is taking too much risk. That is why it is so important that the bank and its investors bear those risks. If they do not, the credit flow will be unlimited, because then they will only look at the potential gains and the losses can be passed on. Those days must be over. Therefore, the government would not support drawing on the public side to determine how much money is available for credits. Another element is: would it not be good if citizens were given the opportunity to move their money completely safely, risk-free and interest-free? I look at that more positively and more sympathetically. There are a number of sides to that. As we have also written in the cabinet response, it is never risk-free. However, it is absolutely true that there is no misunderstanding about the fact that the risks are much more limited if you could put your money away from the central bank or a separate bank, a deposit bank. This should be reflected in the contribution to the deposit guarantee scheme. However, I believe that all deposits in the Netherlands should be protected by this insurance: the deposit guarantee scheme. Then there may be other problems that such an initiative from a deposit bank would encounter. Should or should not a full banking licence apply? What does that mean for capital ratios and so on? We are already looking at the issue of entry barriers. There are requests from the Chamber to look at a bank license light et cetera. That'll be in the Chamber by the summer. There are requests to look at the idea of the deposit bank in that path as well. What kind of obstacles do you run into? Can we take it away and to what extent? We all want more diversity for consumers, because of competition, but also because citizens themselves need to be able to assess the risk that suits them and how they want to deal with their money. If you want more diversity, you need to give this initiative as much space as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	Several of us have suggested this. I also proposed to allow a deposit bank, a full reserve bank. It is a good thing that the Minister responds positively to this. He says he wants to stick to the deposit guarantee scheme. Is that a matter of principle? Ultimately, the risk to other banks, the credit risk, the risk of a run on the bank, is a much higher risk than that other risk, which is still more of an operational risk. Should it not be made possible for you to simply say: that is negligiblely small and they do not have to participate in the deposit guarantee scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	I'm just afraid there's a risk at some point. That could be something in the operational sphere, or fraud, or things we may not be able to come up with right now. I suspect that the SP will then be the first to ask the Minister: can you respond to these people who are now in danger of losing their money? For that we have the deposit guarantee scheme; that's just insurance for your assets. The real question is: if you put your money away in such a secure deposit bank, do you have to pay the same premium? The answer must be, of course, no. If you stole your money in a much more risky type of bank, you'll pay a higher premium. The question is whether we can do enough to reduce the threshold for the initiators. There are concrete initiators who have tried to do this. When initiators say they don't want to participate in that insurance, I give them a bad one. I think it is important that all savings in the Netherlands are sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	Indeed, a number of initiators have already stumbled upon this. I can imagine it's a whole mess. And why would you bring that up when it's probably a minimum premium? Wouldn't it be better to exclude them? That actually makes more sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	I don't see the fuss so much, but I do know what the big advantage is. If people want to choose to just put their savings away risk-free, I want them to have a real picture of that as well. Even with a deposit bank, without deposit insurance, it is not risk-free. If you're just taking part in risk insurance, you're sure it's risk-free. In the Netherlands this is a collective system, in which all people and all institutions that collect money and manage deposits participate. I really think people should know what's risk-free and what's not. Setting up an institution with the pretence and the message that it is risk-free, but without an underlying insurance, I don't really find a fair message. I think we should try to get out of there. By the way, there are many more hooks and eyes, because it is indeed not easy to set up a bank. Mr Merkies knows that we are looking at what can be done with customisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	Speaking of risk-free, I have another question. To what extent does the Minister think it is right that he should pay about ten billion in interest on public debt every year? He pays that to banks, because they buy our sovereign debt, while those same government bonds are in the books as risk-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr Van Dijck knows my opinion on this. Moreover, due to the low interest rates, the interest paid by the State is now considerably lower. The government debt is not only on the balance sheet with banks, but also with large international investors, who are very interested in Dutch government bonds. Mr Van Dijck's key question is whether there should be no risk weight. The Dutch Government's view is that this would include a risk weight. That zero risk weight is not real, because a state can also fall over or face payment problems. So it's not risk-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	But the initiators say: if you put money creation in public hands, you will not pay interest at all. They actually think it is wrong that we pay all those billions of interest to those banks and investors, while the money is risk-free on those balance sheets; they don't even have to keep a buffer for that. Besides, how much does it cost a bank? Suppose a bank buys up our entire government debt, 450 billion. How much does it cost the bank to buy that up? Apparently nothing, if I have to believe the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	No, government bonds also have a price. So it does cost a lot. This is different from a risk weight that translates into, for example, higher reserves or buffers that you have to hold. That's where it is. However, Mr Van Dijck and I agree that government bonds are not risk-free either. You can do that with each other, but that means that some of the risks remain in the financial sector. That's okay, because risks are part of the work of financial services, of the financial sector, but they need to be well priced. And that's not happening here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	Second interruption, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	We're only allowed to do two interruptions, Mr. President? Do we do them in half or in threes? Oh, in twos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	You knew that very well, but continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	Banks are money-creating institutions. So when a bank buys the Dutch public debt for 450 billion, it does not seem to have to raise the capital market to raise the 450 billion. That bank can just write that down in the books on the liability and asset side and say: I bought 450 billion. Therefore, the bank does not actually incur any costs to buy that up, and the interest paid by the minister to that bank is therefore pure profit for the bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	Yeah, a bank can earn on government bonds. It depends a little on which country they are. Fortunately, the rate you pay for this varies considerably, because that rate also expresses the risks involved, which proves that there are risks involved. The assumption of Mr Dijck, however, he stated that, in an interruption debate with, I believe, Mr Harbers, banks should not go to the capital market at all in order to raise funding, is obviously not correct. Indeed, if a bank creates money and puts that money in a customer's account, then there is a gap in the balance sheet once that customer transfers that money to someone else, or uses it to buy a house, to invest or otherwise. A bank has to attract funding for this. Depending on the capital market, a bank simply pays a price for the rating of the bank and so on. So that reasoning does not apply. At least I missed that piece in Mr Van Dijck's reasoning. As soon as money goes off the balance sheet and is transferred to another bank, the bank, in order to keep the balance sheet fair, has to attract money. That's what banks do from the capital market, and that's what they pay for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	So that's only if the money goes to a third bank. However, I am talking about a bank that simply buys 450 billion, the whole of Dutch public debt, and writes it in the books. That's not going to another bank. That doesn't go to a third-party account with a notary. He buys that directly from this minister. That bank therefore does not have to hold on to funding and can write the interest paid by this minister to the bank as 100% profit in the books. That's my whole point. That is why I said in my first term that it is very easy for the banks to make money in this way. Every interest they charge is 100% profit for the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	If that were the case, banks would simply buy up public debt, because it's free money. That is the position of Mr Van Dijck, but of course it is not. The real pay model is another. That is what you can now see in the discussion on ECB policy. There's a difference in the interest rate curve. So if they can borrow very cheap money with shorter loans and if long loans can be issued at better rates of interest, then they are making relatively easy money, yes. An important part of Dutch banks' earning capacity is in mortgages. That's exactly what's happening here. The ECB's policy, the printing of long-term interest rates, makes the curve less steep and the earning capital on this type of products, making profits on the interest rate curve, for Dutch banks less. That is why Dutch bankers have been so vocal about ECB policy in recent weeks. I understand that, but of course the profitability of the banks is not necessarily the ECB's objective. The ECB has a different purpose with monetary policy. Indeed, this difference in interest rates has been reduced by ECB policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	I have another question about the deposit guarantee scheme and the deposit bank. I am glad that the Minister is so open to further exploring it. I also agree with the Minister on the main points. ICT risks and fraud risks must also have a price. But in practice, the deposit guarantee scheme also works in such a way that, if a bank other than the deposit bank gets into trouble, the other banks have to jump in to close the gap. Then you'll get a complicated situation for a deposit bank like that, I guess. Would the Minister also take this point into account in his consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	It depends on what kind of situation we're dealing with. First of all, all banks that do do risky things now all have to meet capital requirements and buffer requirements and there is a bail-in for them et cetera. Only if all that is not enough to make the bank stable and restore balance sheet, could the bank fall over, and then you need a dgs. That dgs didn't exist before. That sounds a little disturbing to the people at home. They think, "I always thought I had insurance." You were, but that insurance wasn't built in advance. It's different now. Since last year banks have to pay into a fund. That fund is being built up. There are also people in Europe who are proposing to link up these funds and develop a European deposit guarantee scheme, so that there is a very large insurance capital there. That already addresses part of Mr Koolmees' concern. If it goes wrong, the deposit bank will have to make a substantial contribution to that Rabobank immediately. That was a perverse side of what dgs used to be like. Now we ask the banks in advance, on the basis of a risk, for a contribution they have to make annually to that fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	That's a clear story. I very much agree with the Minister. The risk of such a deposit bank, regardless of fraud risks and ICT risks, is therefore very small. This also means that, by definition, the contribution of such a bank to the system, to the reserve fund, is very small on the basis of that risk. If it does go wrong, then he won't get hit for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	If it's okay. The fund is, of course, under construction. If a very big attempt is made in the coming years, there is, of course, too little in it. We have to be honest about that, too. However, the banks will have to add the same risk factor to the fund afterwards. The most important point for a deposit bank's initiative is whether they could actually pay a very low premium, so the insurance does apply to everyone if they really have their deposits put in place safely, but that also has to translate into a low premium. Otherwise, they pay the price for risky banking at the other banks. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	I have some specific questions to answer and then I come to the point of further research. SNS Bank is an important part of the diversity we like in the banking landscape. SNS Bank itself, the government as shareholder at the moment and, as I taste it, also the Chamber would like SNS Bank to be a bit of a classic utility bank. Whether it should be in public hands or not is a second question, but the wish is that it should be a classic utility bank: simple products, basic products, sharp on price, low costs and low risks. We are now thinking about it and coming to the Chamber later in the year with proposals, which means for the future and ownership of the bank. For me, the most important thing is: what is the type of bank and how can that bank as a standalone continue to stand up in the future? Can we do that? What does that require? And what does that require in terms of ownership? We haven't figured that out yet, so it'll be in the Chamber at some point. However, I do think there is broad support for SNS Bank to be a very basic bank. That's how the bank's developing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	The minister says we'll come up with it later. Maybe I'm a little impatient, but I'd like to be a little more specific. The Minister says: we want it to be a classic utility savings bank. Wouldn't that be the best thing to do as a bank in government hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	That's one of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	Let me try one more time: does the Minister have sympathy for that thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	I think banking is a private activity. My basic attitude is therefore that SNS Bank should be able to become a private institution again. Or if we choose that this should be the character of this bank, it is a question that needs to be answered. In mid-year the NLFI, which, as we know, manages the shares of all the banks we now own, comes to me with an opinion on the future of SNS Bank. This is, of course, one of the main questions. I'll just get a few specific questions. Mr Nijboer asked about transparency in decision-making in the area of banking regulation. This is very much about "Basel." It is also in the piece of De Verleiders: the BIS (Bank for International Settlements) as a kind of exciting tower of Babel, where we do not know exactly what is happening behind the mirroring glass. In the BIS, central banks work together. One of the things in which they work together is international agreements on capital requirements. I agree with that, because there is very often some kind of policy competition to the bottom. This happened in the 1990s when we were all deregulating in the financial sector. The idea was: if the City is deregulated and New York is deregulated, should we not also deregulate on mainland Europe? One of the good things is that there is now, also in the Financial Stability Board, a club under the G20, consultation to reach international standards, including in the area of capital requirements. Mr Nijboer's point is that there should be more transparency in this, which should ultimately lead to democratic decision-making. As far as transparency is concerned, I very much agree with him. It is a wave that is now going through all the institutions, including in Brussels: how can we make what we are doing much more transparent? We are also trying to get much more openness around the euro group. We are having the same discussion in the tax committee. I can't come up with a name right now, which compares all kinds of tax policies. We've just made agreements there, too. In Ecofin last month, we agreed that it should be more transparent and that there should be reporting. I think there could also be much more transparency around 'Basel'. The proposals from the Basel Committees always lead to legislation. European ministers then decide in Ecofin whether or not to accept them, whether to adapt them or to tighten them up. Sometimes, unfortunately, they are also watered down. That has happened in recent years. I was never so happy about that. I always think, when you meet an international standard, you have to put it all in. This leads to democratic decision-making, with accountability to parliaments. And you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	I thank the Minister for transparency and for yesterday's letter. It was an enlightening letter for the discussion that we will have tomorrow as a chamber committee with the Basel Committee. But I'd like to ask you a few more questions about the attenuation. There is maximum pressure everywhere to hollow out requirements, define criteria or denominators differently and otherwise. After all, the interests are great. What is the Minister's assessment of how this is going? Yesterday we were informed that Commissioner Hill, the Commissioner from the City, would like to weaken the bank capital buffers again under pressure. At the BIS, all themes are on the table, and this can also lead to the erosion of political wishes. How is that prevented? And how can we, as a chamber, check that it is prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	Not all Members of Parliament are as sharp as Mr Nijboer, but ultimately it is up to governments and parliaments to ensure that the demands remain really tough. Furthermore, there are not all initiatives at Basel to weaken the situation. The Basel Committee is also currently discussing the subject that Mr Van Dijck has just mentioned: the risk weights of government bonds. You should not want to regulate this issue at national level. There is not much to do for the Netherlands either, because the risks associated with our government bonds are relatively low, I dare say as Minister of Finance. But in a number of other countries that may not be the case. It is, however, typically something you should make European or preferably international agreements about. It is now being discussed in Basel. A few years ago, that was really unspeakable, but it's happening now. I also heard the message that there would be thought of weakening in Brussels. I do not know the proposals, but I will look very critically at them. I have no idea what this is about. I think we still have a few things to work on. The leverage ratio in Europe is at least 3%. That's not good enough. The Netherlands believes that he should be at least 4% and the Labour Party says that he should be further up afterwards. We're gonna have to stick to that. So I am not so gloomy about the point that would be tried on all sides to reduce it. But there will always be back pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	I agree with the Minister that politics should lead that. Basel and the Bank for International Settlements is actually a world debate. It would be good if the G20 presented the standards, standards and themes to work on. The leverage ratio is such a theme. I am very pleased with the weighting of government bonds, as the Chamber has been calling for this for years, so we can see how fast that is going. The separation of utility and business banking is another issue I have asked for. Another theme is to reduce the application of internal risk models. It would be a good thing if all these issues were not to be covered by legislation which is not exhaustive, but rather that it should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	I very much agree with that. For example, the issue of internal risk models does raise the question of how we deal with the risk valuation of mortgage portfolios. Of this we say that there is actually a low risk in the Netherlands. People in the Netherlands traditionally pay their mortgage charges very neatly. But if, at European level, you agree that there will be less room for manoeuvre in internal risk models, this means that mortgage portfolios will now be given a higher risk weight. I would like to add that nuance, but I very much agree with Mr Nijboer's approach. As President of the Ecofin Council, I was allowed to join the G20. There we had a whole discussion about banking regulation and supervision. Some said that we have arranged too much: we had it by now and the crisis was now over. I have made an argument there along the line that we are not yet there. A number of things are still too open and too weak. There are still big risks. The context was that the financial markets became rather nervous about the European banks. By the way, they were also nervous about British and Japanese banks at that time. However, the newspaper said that they were nervous about European banks. I said that this was only a sign to me that capital markets and investors are looking more critically at what is actually going on in these bank balances. And that's fine. That is not a reason for me to weaken policy, but to pursue it. Then I received the deadly compliment from some that I was very conservative, but that aside. There was another question from Mr Grashoff about the legal form of banks, but I can no longer find the answer. I have no strong views on that. Different legal forms are possible. We also have them in the Netherlands. So I do not think that the laws and regulations impose a certain legal form, but I do not know if I have understood his question correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	Doesn't look like it. Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	My question was about looking at suitable legal forms that are not there but that you would like to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	Ah, the corporate company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	For example, yes. We now know the listed nv and the shareholders. My view is that the bank does not belong on the stock exchange. I think we will disagree on that, but I would like to broaden the discussion on SNS. If you are going to look at a positioning, a desirable positioning or a possible positioning, then you should consider how to create a legal construction that falls under the collective name "not for profit." That should fill the gap between a foundation on the one hand, which seems to be a rather inappropriate form for a bank, and on the other hand a nv. As far as we are concerned, this form is also less suitable for a bank in a number of respects, because it does not sufficiently safeguard the social function.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	I do not know what GroenLinks' proposal is about the company, so I do not have an opinion on that at this stage. A financial institution, i.e. a bank, can have different forms in the Netherlands, also a foundation form or a cooperative form. It can also be a nv or an e.g., where you specify in the statutes: the objective of this foundation is "not for profit." So it can be done in different ways. I have no preference for this, but Mr Grashoff's proposal may have added value to the possibilities that already exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	My question to the Minister is precisely whether he is prepared to undertake an inventory of the possibilities and possibilities that exist today and the way in which you could put forward desirable legal forms. Which are more desirable than others, specifically for banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	Then we'll talk past each other. In my opinion, there are a lot of possibilities and people do not stand in the way of their choice of legal form. So I have no reason to investigate that. I understood that Mr Grashoff said that from his group there was an initiative, a proposal for a new legal form, namely the social security system. Is this the right term? I understood that he asked for my response, and I said: I do not know that proposal, so I cannot do that today. I think that's the way to go if that proposal already exists. I don't know it, but I'd like to study it. I come to my final point. How do we proceed with the initiative? It would be unsatisfactory if the discussion ended here. I do not think that will happen either, because social discontent and social displeasure with the risks and functioning of our financial system are far from gone. Therefore, if a majority of the House were to be in favour of this, I would imagine that we would ask independent researchers to think further about this. We are not going to give them a closed order. Come up with a proposal for an alternative because I am not necessarily in favour of an alternative. Then I'm talking about the money creation side. However, using the ideas of the initiators, we ask them: how would that work and what advantages and disadvantages are attached to it? Because, as I said, there are still risks with the alternative proposal. Credit still needs to be given and risks still need to be priced, thought-out and so on. So I do not think that part of the plan is sufficiently thought out, but I can imagine that it will be of further benefit to the social debate if more thinking is done. I am referring to the social debate on how credit is organised and money creation is taking place. Monetary policy is not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	This was my final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u120	Mr Öztürk. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u121	Yeah, but in the second term, I only have one minute, and I want to file four motions. Well, then I can't ask a lot of questions, and that's why I'd better do it now. The Minister again did not answer the questions of the group Kuzu/Öztürk, DENK. The Minister does that systematically. I would ask the President to ask the Minister to answer that question. The last point was a bit of a bright spot. We shall shortly table a motion calling for an investigation to be carried out by the government so that the Chamber can discuss these research results with the Minister on the citizens' initiative Our Money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u122	I'm not sure what the question is. I said that if the majority of the House considers it useful to continue supporting the social debate, we could ask the WRR, for example, Mr Omtzigt suggested that, and I did not think that was the wrong idea to think about it fundamentally. Once again, there are all kinds of questions that really need to be answered in order to better understand the core problem, but I believe that this could be supported by a majority in the Chamber. Otherwise, we're in a dead end alley. I'd be willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u123	So that's a commitment, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u124	No, I only do that when the majority of the House asks me to do so, otherwise it will not make any sense. Mr Öztürk is very much in favour of this. That was one of his points. That's why I thought I answered his questions, but he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u125	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u126	The Minister leaves it to a majority of the House. I don't know what the government parties agreed with the minister in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u127	Nothing at all, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u128	I don't know. But what I do...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u129	What is your question, Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u130	Why are you being so hard on me? I'm trying here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u131	I like you so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u132	I'm trying to get a clarification, and you're so strict. Just let me do my thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u133	No, I can't. You can say anything, but you suggested that others had a deal, while Mr Omtzigt is not in the coalition at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u134	I'm trying to ask the Minister something. There are 120,000 signatures. You can also say yourself: there is an initiative and I want to know this as a minister; I want to have that investigation done myself, because you have these resources and then go to the table with the people to see what we can do. You leave it to the majority of the House, so you deliberately block an initiative of 120,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u135	What is your question, Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u136	Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u137	If you are going to clap, Mr Öztürk will try to score again. Then he gets wings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u138	For the Acts: the word "score" does not fit the President. I hope you didn't mean to. I'd like to ask an enlightening question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u139	You already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u140	And the word "score" must be out of the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u141	That is not your concern, Mr Öztürk. It's been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u142	I do not understand Mr Öztürk. His main point was that he said to the cabinet: take this seriously. One of his concrete questions was to do further research. I said I'd be willing to do that. But it is important, of course, and I hope that there is that support in the Chamber that a majority of the House says: we find this interesting and we are going to take up that investigation again afterwards. If the majority of the House already says that it does not find the whole money creation story interesting and does not want to think about it any further, the government is not going to do it. It's as simple as that. That seems very reasonable to me. That's the way it goes in the debate more often. The majority of the House indicates, especially on such an initiative, that she would like to investigate something further. The difference between Mr Öztürk and the cabinet is that Mr Öztürk simply says: we have to do it. He embraced it. I say that it is really not sufficiently worked out in terms of money creation. I really see the key question of how we deal with risks. New financial crises are not gone. You can't hold on to that either. The advantages and disadvantages really need to be better thought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u143	I am pleased that the Minister is also responding to one of the questions that I asked in the first term, namely whether he agrees with me that much more fundamental consideration should be given to it. Apparently so. In that sense, I take that in a positive light. As far as I am concerned, it is a good suggestion to put the WRR to work with this. My question concerns one aspect that I mentioned about achieving profits on money creation. If you see money creation as a social task, it is special that the profits are made privately and are therefore also collected privately. In popular terms, the debt of many leads to the wealth of few. Will the Minister say how he looks at this, even in relation to the legal forms of banks? I'm still trying to get through to him what I would've wanted with that. On that aspect, you should ask the question: Is that allowed? Is it legitimate for those profits to be made private? Shouldn't those profits be for society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u144	I am really trying to do Mr Grashoff justice on these legal forms. He spoke in his first term of office about a proposal from GroenLinks. I said I would be happy to respond to that. Much can be done in terms of legal form. I do not think that there is a problem there, but I am looking forward to GroenLinks' proposal with interest. That's an honest answer. If there is no proposal from GroenLinks now, I have misunderstood that. Let me just park it over there, and I'll see if I can still get it. I am trying to have a serious debate with Mr Grashoff. Profit does not arise at the time of money creation. Profit arises at the time when the money created takes place and the money is lent out. The question is whether there is a legitimate profit or surplus. This is very closely linked to how the market works. The proposal of the initiators also includes a liberalised credit market. Credit is still being granted there. I think that profits are still being made as well, because it is still being done by banks. So the real question is whether there are excess profits, with social disruptive effects and with a distribution of prosperity that we do not want. Is interest, for example, a real reflection of the cost of credit and the value of money at the moment? We know that interest rates can easily be maintained if, for example, there is insufficient competition between banks. So we can make a lot of profit on it. That's what happened in the past. Right now, interest rates are dropping. On the Dutch mortgage market there are many new entrants. They're mostly non-banks. The interest rate is printed and the gains on mortgages, for example, really go down. It is much more about whether the credit market is working properly. In the proposal of the initiators, there is simply a credit market which must function properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u145	I don't blame the Minister for the miraculous misunderstanding between us. That's not my intention at all. The misunderstanding is that I asked for a general study on the possibilities and limitations of other legal forms and said that there is a proposal from GroenLinks that could be involved. I'll make sure the Minister gets that proposal. So it's wider. Of course, I would appreciate it if the Minister would respond to that proposal. There really is. But if we can come up with a proposal, then perhaps ten other proposals could also be put forward. They also touch on the issue of whether profits made because of the public role and the social function of money creation should ultimately be translated into a business model or that those profits should benefit the collective. So you could enforce that by means of certain legal forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u146	The problem really isn't in the legal form. You can choose a legal form tomorrow and from there become active in the financial sector and agree with yourself that you do not make a profit. That can be derived from the nature of your legal form. That is not the point at all. In my view, Mr Grashoff does not want any profit to be made on credit, and if it does, that profit will go to the public sector. My analysis is that there is also a credit market in the alternative, but that seems to me to be a point for further study and development. The government is not very good at assessing all these SME loans. The banks are really professional at that, I hope, I know. They assess that and grant it. And yes, they can make a profit on that, too. The real question is whether an excess is being made. By allowing them to create money, can they make an excess profit at the expense of SME entrepreneurs and people who simply want a reasonable remuneration on the mortgage they apply for? Then we have a problem in the lending market. We've talked about that before. There is insufficient competition and freedom of choice. That is why we attach to an SNS, which has its own profile. That is why such a deposit bank might be a good addition, so that there will be much more freedom of choice. That's the best way to get those gains down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u147	Article 106 of our Constitution gives us responsibility for the money system and allows us to carry out further research. I thank the Minister for his willingness to follow it up in the future. He refers to Mr Omtzigt's suggestion to activate the WRR. I think it would be a good idea to look further at it with the initiators as well and to make the subject of study. I have a motion ready, but it would of course be a lot better if the initiative came from the government. In this way we can limit the number of motions. The Minister can simply state that he would like to do this, unless a majority of the House calls him back. At least he has my support. That would save me a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u148	That's not up to me. It's really up to the Chamber to file motions. There was a time when MPs did that together in one motion to make the signal more powerful instead of all running forward to file their own motion. I wish you every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u149	Very good. We have had an extensive debate on this subject. I don't think Mr Klein was in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u150	I was very much in favour of giving the government the opportunity to take the initiative itself. It's the Minister's freedom to say he's picking it up and he's going to carry out the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u151	That brings us to the end of the first term. In the second period, speaking time per group is 1 minute and 20 seconds. That includes filing motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u152	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. The minister just made a move: if the Chamber asks for a further reflection of the money system, then so be it. That is, of course, an invitation that my party is happy to accept. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a fair and sustainable economy cannot exist without a fair and sustainable financial system;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the alternatives to the current money system provided in the Citizens' Initiative Our Money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u153	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that private banks provide loans on an uncoordinated and uncoordinated scale, i.e. uncoordinated money creation;]] [[noting that banks have an interest in ensuring that citizens and businesses incur as much debt as possible in the current system;]] [[noting that research shows that a stable financial and economic system can be achieved by coordinating and centralising money creation;]] [[considers that the right to money creation should be fundamental to the privilege of the public authorities;]] [[calls on the government to democratize the right to money creation and to separate credit and money creation, which means that banks no longer have the opportunity to create money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u154	How does Mr Wassenberg propose to completely separate lending and money creation, and hence deposits, from each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u155	You might want to think about taking the utility banks and the banks apart with a little more risky commercial activity. Such functions would not belong within one bank. You might want to think about distinguishing that from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u156	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u157	How does that second form of bank attract money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u158	There are plenty of people who will want to bank at a bank that keeps away from all kinds of risky activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u159	No, it was the second form that mattered to me. From the first form, I get it. I'm referring to the second form: you lend out some money and you pull in some deposits or something. That's the essence of a bank. Especially if you're not banking fractionally, you have to raise a lot of deposits to be able to lend. Where does the bank get that from, if you completely separate it, as proposed in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u160	As a consumer, you should have the opportunity to bank with a bank that does risky business. Some consumers will choose to do so. However, you must also have the option of not choosing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u161	I'm trying to understand. What kind of banks are we talking about? Mr Wassenberg talks about the utility bank. So is that the deposit bank we just talked about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u162	Or the old-fashioned savings bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u163	But the old-fashioned savings bank also had loans and mortgages on the balance sheet to which risks were indeed linked. Then I do not fully understand the distinction between these two types of banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u164	You're talking about irresponsible risks with speculation. I want consumers to be able to choose to stay away from that. You can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u165	Mr. Chairman. This has been a fundamental and interesting debate. I heard the minister say, "You can do it." That's an important statement. We are taking steps today, I can see, for example, with regard to the deposit bank that I asked for, as well as colleagues of mine. Mr Koolmees will table a motion on this subject, including on behalf of me and Mr Nijboer. About SNS I hear a slightly optimistic, hopeful tone. I also hear the Minister say that the government should not bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u166	You really need to get to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u167	That might be a little dogmatic after all. I hope that some thought will be given to this. I'm getting on my motion. I would like to say one more thing about that. Independent research seems to be coming. We have also argued in favour of this. In addition, however, I have asked for research into the profits from money creation. That's what my motion is about. I have not yet received an answer from the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks make profits thanks to the privilege of money creation;]] [[calls on the Government to launch an independent investigation into the size of the money creation gains,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u168	I also have a motion on SNS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that over 80% of the population wants a state bank to be set up;]] [[Whereas a state bank fulfils an important social need and contributes to the stability of the financial system, and may serve as a positive example for other banks;]] [[calls on the government to hold SNS Bank in state hands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has indicated that there must be a majority in parliament to persuade him to do something about the citizens' initiative of Our Money. I therefore have four small, powerful motions to see if there is a majority to persuade the Minister to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, the social costs and benefits of the current money system to carefully and objectively compare the social costs and benefits of the money system as proposed by the Citizens' Initiative Our Money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to examine whether a small-scale pilot is possible with the alternative money system proposed by the Citizens' Initiative Our Money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, the citizens' initiative Our Money to bring it to the attention of the European Union objectively and in fact, so that an alternative money system can be realised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to keep citizens' initiatives longer on the political agenda so that these citizens' initiatives can take place in multiple cabinets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk and Mr Klein. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-7]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u170	I have a point of order which I also address to you, Mr President. A Member of Parliament is now proposing that the government should keep citizens' initiatives on the agenda. But that is not what the government is about; a citizens' initiative is something that is presented to the Chamber. Therefore, if Mr Öztürk wishes to propose this, I would suggest that he address his request to the Chamber and the Bureau, because they are about it. The Minister has nothing to say about it. I think it is a strange proposal, because in eight years' time we would be debating something that is now on the agenda. So I'm giving you my skepticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u171	I see the Minister now saying that he does have an opinion... What you're telling me is the usual way. It is also customary that when such a call is made to the Presidium, the Presidium first responds to the motion, even before it is put to the vote. But it is Mr Öztürk's right to table the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u172	So it would be more tidy if the motion were addressed to the Presidium. Then it can make a judgment, say what it thinks and whether the requested one is feasible. So not the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u173	Firstly, I regret that Mr Omtzigt of the CDA does not want citizens' initiatives that are not being supported to come back in a number of years. 120,000 signatures have been handed in. It may be that the present majority or the cabinet is opposed. But it could also be that the cabinet will pick it up after this. Now you need 120,000 signatures twice. I'm trying to take the 120,000 signatures seriously. Mr Omtzigt makes a technical point. I can see if I can change my motion to direct it to the Chamber. I would also like to make an appeal to this reluctant minister: if you do not want to do so, do not block it from your future colleagues. That was the signal, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u174	Mr Öztürk does not have to make the role of the Chamber any smaller than it is. Mr Öztürk can ask a question at any time about any citizens' initiative and any proposal he makes. He acts as if something the Chamber rejects today has always been rejected. If any Member of Parliament can make that next year or two years, put it in a coalition agreement or whatever, it will just be adopted. Don't make the role of the Chamber like we can't make proposals here. That is what we do all day long. Just look at the number of motions that are currently being tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u175	Mr Öztürk, I am going to end this discussion because it is really about the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u176	No, no, Mr. Chairman, I have the right to answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u177	Mind if I finish my sentence? I propose that we move on to the subject on the agenda today. As far as the procedure is concerned, you have tabled a motion. You are free to put that motion to the vote or not. I would be happy to respond on behalf of the Presidium. Let's keep it a little tidy. We are certainly having the procedural discussion, including with you, and you may now give a brief response, but not provoke another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u178	You use qualifications that don't fit a chairman: let's keep it clean. We'll keep it clean. Mr Omtzigt asks a question nicely and I try to answer it, but you are blocking my answer. I'm not trying to narrow down the role of the Chamber. I am trying to increase the role of citizens' initiatives. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u179	Thank you. You always react: this suits you or this does not suit you as chairman. That is up to me, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u180	Mr. Chairman. The social and therefore political debate on this is not going to end today. Fortunately, I note that none of the parties concerned, either the Chamber or the Minister, if I have understood him correctly, wants to conclude the debate with this. I think it is a good suggestion that in any way, with the involvement of the WRR, we should follow up this discussion and do a thorough study. In support of this, I have two brief motions on subjects that could be involved in such a process. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the social function of banks should be paramount;]] [[Whereas the current legal form of most large banks, the listed SA, encourages a commercial attitude and primary focus on profit maximization, under pressure from the social function;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate possible other legal forms for banks, focusing on their social function, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a risk-free and interest-free digital bank account may be useful to provide citizens with complete certainty about their savings and payments;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities, costs and need for a risk- and interest-free bank account and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-11]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr. Chairman. It was indeed an interesting debate. I thank the Minister for his clear statement. I still have two points for the second term. The WRR is currently conducting research into financialisation. I think it would be a good idea to have the point of money creation taken away by the WRR team that is doing that research. Mr Omtzigt will be tabling a motion in a moment. I think that's a sensible line. As far as I am concerned, the core of this discussion is not money creation, but excessive debt creation or debt increase. That is the problem of the crisis of recent years. It is wise, however, to look at the draft in a broad sense and continue to hold the debate. I am confident that the Minister will take good steps to look at the possibilities for a deposit bank in the deposit guarantee scheme. To stitch it off and see if there's a majority in the Chamber, I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that barriers to entry into the banking sector are high, making it difficult for small, innovative institutions to join;]] [[noting that an initiative to set up a "full reserve" deposit bank with a very low credit risk does not materialise, including the current format of the permit requirements;]] [[whereas we want to give Dutch people the choice to also save at an institution that keeps the money purely digitally for them;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the current legislation on authorisation should be adapted to allow a deposit bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koolmees, Mr Nijboer and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u182	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I thought it was a good debate. It turns out that with such a citizens' initiative, you can loosen something up in the Chamber. I found the Minister's response sound and serious, and I believe that a great deal still needs to be done to ensure that the financial sector is healthy. In the first term, I drew attention to the separation of utility and business banking, to transparency and to the international lack of standards. I understand the Minister's determination to do this. I shall therefore not table any further motion on this matter. If that is promised in the Chamber, we will hold the Minister to it. In connection with the initiative, Mr Koolmees has tabled a motion which Mr Merkies and I have co-signed on making a deposit bank possible. That has my wholehearted support, otherwise I would not have tabled the motion. It would be a good step to leave people the choice of safe depositing their money at a bank, even if it is guaranteed up to €100,000 from other banks. That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u183	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a good debate. I would like to thank the initiators once again for having put this on record, because this was never put forward by the Chamber. We are dealing here with legislation and the order of the day. This is going very deep and I'm glad it was put on the map. If we are going to investigate further the advantages and disadvantages of money creation, I would like to ask that the WRR look at the advantages and disadvantages for the Netherlands of being trapped in the ECB. The PVV is very concerned about what is now going on with pensions. I believe this is alive and well. Banks, of course, remain the fourth power. If the ECB stops the quantitative easing, this Italian interest rate may well rise as a result of which Italy's capital market is running away. Then the bill will be returned to the taxpayer. I wonder if we haven't learned anything. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks are insufficiently performing their original tasks;]] [[whereas SNS Bank is still in the hands of the State and may be brought to the market later this year;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of turning SNS Bank into a state savings bank, managing savings and granting loans to individuals and non-profit-making entrepreneurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u184	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the proposers. The Minister made a clear statement on what can and cannot be done. He will look at the possibility of a deposit bank and in the spring we will hear more about it. That seems very sensible to me. With him, we believe that it would be unsatisfactory for the discussion to end here. It is not sufficiently worked out, and you should not expect it at all, and what is more fundamental research is desirable. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an in-depth investigation into the role and functions of banks in money creation and other functions is necessary;]] [[Whereas there is a need for a service banking system with fewer risks for savers and taxpayers;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Government's Scientific Policy Council to deliver an opinion on the banking system, the role of central banks, utility banks and business banks, with recommendations on how to improve the system and the role of the Banking Union and the Dutch government in doing so;]] [[calls on the government to include: the role of commercial banks in vital matters for society such as payments, the security of our savings, the monetary functions of central banks and the risks associated with money creation;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34346-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u185	It would be very good, especially since I have not been able to discuss with all my colleagues, in the process if there is still a meeting somewhere, either with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure or publicly, to discuss the precise questions of inquiry before such an investigation can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u186	Do you have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u187	No, just one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u188	I shall then give the floor to Mr Merkies for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u189	I have a question for clarification. I hear Mr Omtzigt mention a lot of things. I wonder if he's much wider now. Is he proposing to investigate the entire banking system or is it really about investigating the money system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u190	I have a number of suggestions that have been made today. I hear that a number of colleagues are involved in money creation in the separation of utility, business and deposit banks. That's why it's in the motion. This is exactly why I am saying here that I think it would be wise to have a discussion with the WRR as a committee of inquiry in order to tighten up the question. Otherwise, the report will be as large as that of Professor De Jong on the Second World War, with all the aspects we can think of. That is not entirely the intention, and the urgency is a little too great for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u191	That's exactly what I'm worried about. I am also in favour of investigating the separation of utility and business banks. The risk is that it will suddenly be so broad that we lose focus on the money system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u192	It's the money system that matters to me. I myself have added very clearly in my term the way in which the European Central Bank is currently implementing this. This is a small addition to what the proposers of this citizens' initiative want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u193	I find Mr Omtzig's motion very sympathetic. We just need to avoid that it's some kind of shift tactic, of "o, let the WRR fix it." I do not think Mr Omtzigt would want that either. Do I understand that his motion also means that he would like to invite the WRR to include the initiators of the citizens' initiative in that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u194	Mr Klein made a proposal in his introduction. In the Institution Act W.R.R. states that it is the government that instructs the Scientific Council for Government Policy and not the House of Representatives. So that is different from that in other institutions. So we're already going along the edge here. I hope the WRR chooses to have other people give input as well. If Mr Klein asks me whether I want to prescribe exactly how and what, my answer is that I do not. Today, however, the WRR has undoubtedly listened and understood the origin of this question, so I assume he will be involved and will not investigate anything else altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u195	I don't mean to force the WRR either. We can't do that at all. That is why I have also spoken about "invite." I understand that an urgent invitation from this Chamber could well be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Omtzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u197	Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, it was good to have a debate on all aspects of the money and banking system. I would like to thank the initiators who put it on the agenda. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply by letter and for his contribution to this debate. We have been able to talk about all aspects. It will be clear that the VVD attaches great importance to the current system, which has already been developed in recent years to reduce risks. In that system, too, there can be a lot, precisely in order to organise the market, in the form of supervision, banking licences, capital buffers and other risk requirements. That applies to all banks. The same goes for SNS. It doesn't have to be in government hands. I also noticed that, if 80% of the population actually wants a bank in state hands, SNS is already short of millions of customers. After all, it does not have 80% of the population as a customer. That might also be a reason to just bring SNS back to the market in due course. Finally, I'm going to go to the deposit bank. I very much agree with the Minister's well-balanced argument on this point. In it, he says that there are operational risks, which are also reflected in the risk weighting. I hope, despite the motion, he doesn't put that overboard. The motion calls for any legislation to be adapted. That should not be necessary, because, according to the Minister's argument, it is very important that participation in the deposit guarantee scheme fits in with this, albeit with a different risk weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u198	As the author of the motion, I would like to comment on this. That is absolutely not the intention of this motion. It's about seeing if you can do anything about the permit requirements and it's about risk weighting. I also argued in the Minister's first term that fraud risks and systemic risks do have a price and that they must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u199	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u200	Thank you very much for this explanation. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u201	Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Minister endorses the aim of the Citizens' Initiative Our Money to achieve a more stable system and restore confidence in our money system. There are investigations offered in various motions. We would like to support them, so an additional motion seems to me to be completely superfluous, so I am not going to do so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u202	The Minister can answer directly. In the meantime, he's got almost all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u203	Yes. I have 13 motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u204	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u205	If people in the public gallery think that's a lot, they should look at an agricultural debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u206	Yes, and in an energy debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u207	Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of overlap between the motions. Perhaps we can solve this in the second term and bring it together. I'm just going to follow them in numbers. The Wassenberg/Thieme motion in part No. 3 asks the government to investigate the alternatives to the current system provided by citizens' initiative Our Money. When I listen to the Chamber, I do have the support to do an investigation to further deepen this issue. I find this motion too narrow again, because it says: only to this alternative. I believe that the issue of the money system, the role of banks in it, but certainly also of the government, the way in which it has been invested and the alternative that has been put on the table, should be further deepened. I think this motion is a little too narrow. For that reason, I would advise her not to, but it might be a thought that a number of people who have motions on the investigation after the debate should put their heads together in order to make one tight text. That would enhance the power of the signal. I'm about to come up with other motions that are also about research. The Wassenberg/Thieme motion in part No. 4 calls for the right to money creation to be democratized and for lending and money creation to be separated and so on. This motion actually says: implement the initiative now. That's not what I'm here for. The cabinet and I would be very much in favour of certain parts of it. We are also going to look at what is possible, but not for other parts, also because many questions are unanswered and large risks are not sufficiently thought out. That is why we have said: let us investigate this further. That is what the initiators have also advocated. This motion ignores that investigation and says: enter it. The motion in part No. For that reason, I would advise against 4 votes. The Merkies motion in part No. 5 also calls for an independent study to be carried out, but specifically on the scale of the money creation gains. Is that where profits are made? Is that an excess? In other words, is that irresponsible much? How does that even work? Who's gonna benefit? I think this is a sub-question that can be included in the research question on that issue of money creation and public and private responsibilities. This way, I wouldn't want to put it as a separate investigation. I would like to discourage the motion, but this is another example of something that may be involved in a broad-based research question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u208	The minister says this could be involved in the investigation. I would like to hold the motion, because I will see if that is indeed going to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u209	In this case, the motion is in part No. Mr Merkies's 5 apprehended?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u210	I'll hold the motion if the Minister can confirm that my motion will be involved in the investigation. I took that out of his words. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u211	We are now entering a complex division of roles. My suggestion was that I could imagine working towards a single motion, in which the question is fairly clear and narrowly defined. The question in Mr Merkies' motion was whether there would be a great deal of profit in the process of money creation and whether it would simply have to end up on the private side or not. It seems logical to me to include that in the follow-up on the floor. We are not talking about it, but it would make sense if there were one motion and we could take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u212	It's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u213	If that succeeds, Mr Merkies could continue his motion. Well, then maybe that's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u214	If that works, I can even rescind the motion. So I'm going to work with my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u215	Fine. You have until Tuesday, because only then will we vote on it. Does that also apply to Mr Wassenberg? That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u216	The negotiations have begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u217	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u218	The motion in part No. 6 by Mr Merkies states that SNS must remain in state hands. I don't think the core of the future of SNS is that that bank remains in state hands. We have many banks in the Netherlands. A number of them, known to all members, are large. By the way, they have very different legal forms and are by no means all listed on the stock exchange, but this aside. The key issue with SNS is whether it is possible to have an independent bank that is very basically useful: payments, savings products, simple loan products and possibly even simple lending, including to SMEs. The question is whether SNS and its subsidiary can do so, whether that has a future and who would be appropriate as owner. For the cabinet it is certainly not a matter for the government to decide that this is the government. In fact, the point of departure of the cabinet is that the government should not do so. The first question is how to give SNS, with that profile and because we want diversity, a future. This motion is ahead of us. I have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 7 is another study, i.e. the demand to offset the social benefits of the current system against the alternative. This is close to the point where we can possibly find each other. As far as I am concerned, between now and Tuesday, we can see if we can reach a joint research question, also because it has to be in an advisory question towards the WRR. This motion is quite in that direction and may therefore be part of it. In the motion in part No. Mr Öztürk asked for a small-scale pilot. Saying that we can already try small-scale, things are getting ahead of us. If we come out of it in terms of laws and regulations, I'll say yes to the deposit bank component. The cabinet is saying no to money creation right now. There are still many questions and many risks, things are not well thought out and it is too early. So that's where we don't want a pilot. I advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 9 by Mr Öztürk, calling for the initiative to be brought to the attention of the European Union. I'll leave that motion to judge Chamber. I am, of course, willing to bring to the attention of Mr Öztürk the initiative, 'objective and factual'. I am not embracing it, but I am bringing it to the attention of the European Commission. If the Chamber attaches itself to it, the Cabinet is prepared to do so. On Mr Öztürk's motion on item No. 10 goes the room itself. In Mr Grashoff's motion to item No. 11 is asked to investigate alternative legal forms. I'd advise against it. I don't have the point of thinking that there's a problem here, that it's in the legal form. The motion also assumes that most major banks are listed nvs. That is not true, especially in the Netherlands. I do not think the analysis is good, but we will continue this discussion on the basis of the proposal from GroenLinks to the social enterprise. In the motion in part No. 12 is requested for a risk-free account. I thought we were further on with that: if there is an initiative, there is obviously a need and we are considering whether we can make it possible within the framework of legislation and regulation. That is what we are taking into account in the discussion on removing entry barriers. That's what another motion is about. A "research into" is, I think, not the smartest route to this. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 13 is precisely about this point. It states that it would be nice to have a deposit bank with a very low risk and so on in the diversity of the banking landscape. This motion calls on the government to investigate that further. I'd be happy to say so. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 14 members Van Dijck and Graus deal with the SNS Bank. The PVV already knows for sure that it should become a state savings bank. It contains the element that the ownership should be with the State and that it should be a savings bank, while there are other simple low-cost products and low-risk products that the bank could offer. For two reasons, therefore, I would like to discourage the motion. In the second half of the year we will really be talking about the future of the SNS Bank. Mr Omtzig's motion for a resolution 15 also asks for an investigation. The motion describes in great detail what it should all be about. My reaction is that this really makes it too big. It also takes off the focus. So if you want to deepen the initiative and take the problems that the initiative identifies seriously, you should not get all the problems involved across the board. There's also one very political element in it. Mr Omtzigt knows that. Over the last few days, the CDA has been critical of the European Central Bank's policy. This is actually about a completely different aspect, namely whether it fits within the mandate and whether the degree of QE, the extent to which bonds are bought up, is not such that it goes outside the mandate. That load is already a bit in this, also in Mr Omtzigt's explanatory statement. In this way, I would advise him not to, but I think she could just become part of a sharper question. I would therefore be in favour of not making it very broad and pulling everything around, but rather of keeping the focus on the core issue that was put on the table by the initiators and looking at whether we can continue to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-16-tweedekamer-10.u219	I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative Our Money, in particular Mr George van Houts, who spoke with enthusiasm. He has heard the voice of the citizens who have signed this initiative in the Chamber. We will vote on the motions next week. I would also like to thank the people in the public gallery. You guys haven't been able to control yourself, but so far, you've done well. I would also like to thank the people who have followed this debate in a different way, the Minister and his officials and the Members of Parliament.
