ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. This post was published in the Volkskrant last Saturday. My first question to the Minister is what she thinks of this message. The drama of Srebrenica is one of the greatest dramas on the European continent, perhaps the biggest since World War II. This is primarily the case for the victims and their families, but certainly also for all those Dutchbat soldiers who turned out to be fighting a lost battle, after which 8,000 Muslim men, in the middle of Europe, were brutally murdered. These two groups, the families of the victims and the Dutchbat military, deserve clarification, for example on why this expected air support was not forthcoming. Many think it could have prevented the drama. Is the enclave by Dutchbat and has Dutchbat been abandoned by the United Nations to protect the 340 French and British hostage blue helmets? Or were there other interests involved? NIOD recently concluded that no secret agreements have been made between the United States, France and Great Britain not to provide air support. However, a UN decision was adopted. Our UN ambassador was aware of this. Then why does former Minister Voorhoeve say that he did not know about the suspension of air support? Did it suspend communication between our UN ambassador and the government, or is the investigation incorrect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your questions. A lot of interviews and articles appear in the media about what happened back then. I think it would be wise if I did not respond to every individual article. I think Mr Kuzu knows very well that the fate of Dutchbat and in particular that of Dutchbat III is very much to my heart. That is why I asked for specific attention during the last Veterans' Day. As regards the 2003 NIOD report and the recent follow-up study by the NIOD, I leave the conclusions of the NIOD to the NIOD. With all due respect, I did not intend to repeat this in Question Time. NIOD has a very good reputation and has done a good job. I do not wish to question that in this Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	First of all, it's not just someone who gave an interview last Saturday. It's the second man in charge of Dutchbat. So I challenge the Minister once again to try to make a judgment on this. Secondly, NIOD has indeed carried out an investigation. It concludes that no secret agreements have been made between the three countries. However, our UN ambassador says in the same report that he was not aware of this. In the past, former Minister Voorhoeve indicated that he did not know of the suspension of the decision. Has this perhaps been due to the communication between our Ambassador to the United Nations and the Minister? The Minister called attention to it on the Veterans' Day. She said the mission was impossible in advance. Does the Minister understand that this is a blow to the descendants of victims and ex-Dutchbatter's? What does she mean by this expression? Does she mean that the mission with the knowledge of today proved not to be feasible? Or does she mean that the mission has been carelessly prepared and that the military have therefore been sent on a careless mission? What are we going to learn from the latest NIOD report for other missions that we are going to carry out in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	I am a little shocked by these questions during a simple oral question. NIOD wrote a huge report in 2003. A follow-up study has recently been carried out on a very sensitive issue. This has been done with great dedication, precision and full concentration. Once again, I do not wish to question the conclusions of the NIOD here. Then I come up with what I said in my speech on Veterans Day. Mr Voorhoeve said this morning: the Minister must have meant to encourage the Dutchbat III community. My answer to this is: that's right. The word "unexecutable" is not exactly new, otherwise I would never have used it. It was already expressed in the cabinet position in 2003. I won't quote it now, but it's all there. It was also about the survey report and the debate on it on 18 June 2003. Mr Öztürk can also find this terminology in the first NIOD report on page 3140. It doesn't fit to pick this up again via a one-two. What matters is that the NIOD has done careful research and that we should be careful about dealing with Dutchbat III people who are still having problems at the moment. I attach great importance to this and do not wish to deal with it in this way during oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	Nor is it my intention to question the conclusions of the NIOD report; let there be no misunderstanding about that. It has been an investigation, it has been bulky and there are indeed conclusions that we can discuss with each other. I understand that the Minister does not want to answer my question, because she may think it is too short or because she may not be prepared for it, but I will try to change it. The Minister also stated on the Veterans' Day that the consequences of these horrific events of 1995 in Srebrenica are felt to this day. Then you could also leave the challenge to the Minister whether she wishes to respond to it. That goes for the thousands of victims and the descendants of the victims, of course, but also for all those Dutch boys on mission. One final point. We see that on 11 July events in Srebrenica will be commemorated. For this, a mobile monument is taken from storage at the Square in The Hague. My final question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to make a permanent monument for the Dutchbatters and the victims, because this does more justice to the terrible events in which we have also had a responsibility. Does she want to make a living in the cabinet for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	In recent years a lot has been said and written about Srebrenica and Dutchbat III. Conclusions have been drawn, and they are being responded to. There are people there and here, for example members of Dutchbat III, who still feel abandoned. They deserve our attention and our care. That's why, among other things, I had a conversation with our own Prime Minister in 2015 with the Dutchbat community. This has led to actions. I think the Chamber has been informed. I do not know whether this has happened by letter, but at least it has been done during the debate. I see Mr Kuzu's good intentions, but I would ask him first of all to read the NIOD reports properly and also to take back the letters that have been sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	I have a bit of the same uncomfortable feeling as the Minister, because this is a subject that deserves a normal debate. Mr Kuzu's questions are, in part, justified or deserve at least a full debate with the Chamber and we should settle them in this way rather than through oral Question Time. Anyway, here we are. The Minister is suddenly surprised that there is so much commotion, but part of that commotion is due to the statements made by the Minister himself. Mr Kuzu also referred to this. My question to the Minister is whether these statements were useful or not and whether they are partly the cause of the debate which is re-emerging today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	At the request of the Dutchbat community, I was prepared to talk to the Prime Minister with the same Dutchbat community. This has resulted in a number of actions. In that I offered to pay extra attention to what happened at the time, for example, on the last Veterans' Day. I found that appropriate, as did the representatives of the Dutchbat community who were present there. Then you make a speech and of course you look very carefully at what has been said before, precisely to operate carefully when it comes to the feelings of the community and the feelings of others who may have been or may have been involved. Let me briefly mention what is in the first NIOD report. "For example, Dutchbat was deployed in practice on a mission with a very unclear mandate." "To an area defined as a safe area without a clear definition." "To maintain peace where there was no peace." "Without obtaining in-depth information from predecessors in the enclave." "Without being adequately trained for this specific task in those specific circumstances." "Almost deprived of military-policy intelligence work to gauge the intentions of the warring parties." "Under insufficient trust in the willingness to deploy the air weapon." "Without a clear departure strategy." In that same report, I mentioned page 3140 earlier, the term "unexecutable" was already used. Of course, I am referring above all to Dutchbat III, when the Bosnian Serbs had closed the UN resolutions and it became clear that this mission was not possible. This is from the NIOD report. I'm not making this up myself. This was also discussed during the cabinet response in 2003 and this has been discussed again and again. In short, I repeated what was already widely shared and what was meant as a heart under the belt of the Dutchbat community. I didn't say anything new that day. In fact, I quit from the 2002 NIOD report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	I do miss an answer to the second part of my last question. That was about the monument. A mobile monument is now being removed from the stable on 11 July. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to making it a permanent monument? She doesn't have to say that today. I am simply asking if she is prepared to make an effort in the cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	This year we have made new agreements on the lifting of the flag. We have done so in good consultation with the Dutchbat community. This wish is not known to me. I'll discuss that with the representatives of the Dutchbat community. But just so we're clear, a monument doesn't solve everything. The point is that we speak clearly about what happened at the time and who took on what responsibility at what point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u11	Sure, the monument doesn't solve the problem. This is not only a request from ex-Dutchbatter, but also from the victims' relatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u12	This is certainly a special debate that has been requested by a political party that is not for the Ministry of Defence. I have the following question to the Minister. Would it not be wise, now that all these interviews are published in the newspaper, to start that conversation again and perhaps to inform us about it again? Otherwise, they're gonna be different stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Kuzu has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have a point of order and a personal fact. DENK is not against Defense, DENK is for another interpretation of the mission of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is almost tempting to take budgetary treatment over this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u16	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u17	That's what I thought. I would like to say to Mrs Belhaj that it has not been a single conversation. There is a permanent dialogue between Defence and representatives of the Dutchbat community. This dialogue is going well. Of course there are always wishes and there are also people who do not feel sufficiently represented, but we keep a finger on the wrist there. I will update the Chamber in due course, at least before the elections, on where we stand and what we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-tweedekamer-4.u18	For clarity, the Chamber knows the Kuzu/Öztürk Group. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
