ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u2	Madam President. At the moment, the law recognises three categories of persons seeking housing who must have priority in assigning a social housing. We are talking about foreigners who have applied for a fixed-term residence permit in the Netherlands and as a result have received a residence permit, about house seekers who are staying in a temporary care facility and who have left their living quarters in connection with problems of relational nature or violence, and, last but not least, house seekers who provide and/or receive cloak care. This legislative proposal removes the statutory priority position of licence holders. As a result of this proposal, municipalities will be able to decide for themselves the position of licence holders vis-à-vis other property seekers after the adoption of this law. This can therefore vary from one municipality to another. Since the Netherlands is not a single sausage and the situation may vary from one region to another, the CDA Group considers this decentralisation of the designation power to be tailor-made in itself. And we're always custom-made. Following the introduction of this amendment, municipalities may choose to continue to appoint licence holders as an urgent group in the municipal housing regulation. If the municipality chooses not to include licence holders as an emergency category, the groups included in them will have priority over other house seekers. In other words, the legislative proposal before us is quite simple. However, the underlying problem remains that in some regions there are simply too few homes for too many house seekers. The measures taken by the Minister for temporary accommodation of licence holders will at best solve this problem only temporarily. Structurally, other measures are needed, also in view of the fact that the mandatory number of status holders to be housed per municipality continues to exist. Nor does it solve the problem that people in some regions are on a waiting list for a home for years. You'll only be the one who's been waiting so long; it doesn't cheer you up. We have often pointed out to this government that their strict and income-generating housing policy can also have a downside. The answer to the written questions shows, in terms of numbers, that there would be no problem with our housing stock. However, reality shows something else. We point to the response of our 32 major cities. Since these municipalities also have the largest housing assignment of licence holders, there is a major problem. This weekend, we read in the newspaper that corporations, according to the minister, would suffer from the "Dagobert Duck" complex. In short, they stay on their dime. The members of the CDA Group would like to hear whether this quote is correct. The members of the CDA Group stress that, in accordance with our Constitution, ensuring adequate housing is a task for the government. You can't expect everything from the market. It's about people who need a roof over their heads. In a civilized country like the Netherlands, that is the basic principle. More attention should be paid to people who are at risk of falling between shore and ship because they can either not get a house or the rents rise in such a way that they are unable or almost unable to pay them. It is precisely now that the economy is attracting that the housing market is still far from being in order. There are long waiting lists for social rentals due to the too high landlord's tax. There are far too few rental homes for people who are not eligible for social housing, the so-called middle segment. And still there are far too many people who, with their income, would no longer have the right to a social housing. To get the housing market moving again, it will be necessary to enable corporations to rebuild houses and stimulate the free rental market to build rentals for a rent between €700 and €900. If necessary, we need corporations to build houses if the market is to fail. In particular, sufficient rental and purchase accommodation should be available around the larger cities. The private market or investors can also help in this, but they should not be penalised for paying the landlord's tax. In other words: we need to build! In the eyes of the CDA group, pointing the finger at corporations should change in the search for the connection. One must become allies. We wholeheartedly support the call of the House Union, quite translated: stop bickering and do something! The members of the CDA Group would like to hear the response of our Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Article 12, third paragraph, of the Housing Act 2014 stipulates that licence holders seeking accommodation for the first time in a municipality with a housing regulation should in any event be designated as an urgent seeker. The proposed draft law deletes this provision. According to the Cabinet, the housing of licence holders places a disproportionate pressure on the social housing system which requires regular house seekers to wait a very long time for an assigned home. The aim of the proposal is to remove a statutory priority position for licence holders. The proposal is without prejudice to the fact that municipalities retain a mandate as laid down in Article 28 of the Housing Act and that the Cabinet addresses them accordingly. The removal of the provision in Article 12, third paragraph, forces the municipalities, the cabinet believes, to be creative in addressing the housing of licence holders. The present proposal has led to extremely critical reactions outside the parliament. There was criticism from the Council of State, the VNG, the IPO and the G32, the largest municipalities in our country. The criticism is always the same: the cabinet does not solve any problem with this proposal and the cabinet does not help municipalities to solve a major and important social issue. First of all, it is good to find out why the priority article was introduced at the time, not only for this group but for all those who are actually homeless. People who have fled from a war zone to the Netherlands and have been recognised as status holders here after a strict procedure must learn our language as soon as possible and contribute to our society through work. They, and all of us, have a great interest in that. It prevents a lot of trouble. Adequate housing helps and saves costs. After all, reception in asylum-seekers' centres is expensive. Without a priority position, obtaining adequate housing in many municipalities is impossible. A status holder has no "points" and comes at the bottom of the waiting list, which makes the necessary integration more difficult and more difficult. At the same time, and that problem is very real, the arrival of newcomers on the emergency list puts bad blood on people who have been looking for an affordable home for a long time. The D66 Group therefore believes that the housing of status holders should not be at the expense of other vulnerable groups. There are currently at least 14,000 status holders on the waiting list for a home. In what way, apart from this bill, does the cabinet intend to solve this problem without at the expense of the current people on the waiting list? I will come back to what this bill contributes to this. Ultimately, there is only one solution: the influx of status holders into Dutch society must be accompanied by accompanying policies. Give people the opportunity to learn Dutch as soon as possible and prepare for the labour market and build good and cheap homes for all those who need it. What does this bill contribute to solving the housing and integration issues of status holders and others on the housing waiting lists? The D66 Group has not yet been able to find out. We have not received an answer in the preliminary report to our question as to what is the solution to this problem. The cabinet reiterates in its reply that municipalities can provide local customisation with this proposal and that this proposal encourages them to increase housing stock. I would ask the Minister to go into that further. Municipalities I call the G32... see this itself quite differently. In their view, this proposal does not support them at all in order to solve a major problem. In the House of Representatives, one of the government parties argued and the debate began by saying that the proposal could be accepted because it is merely symbolic legislation. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it relates to this accusation of symbolic politics by one of the government parties. Can the Minister explain to this House why he thinks, against all civil society organisations, that this is a necessary instrument to solve the problems that the municipalities are struggling with? What will the cabinet say will be the proceeds of this bill? To make it more concrete: how many people, according to the cabinet, can this proposal start their integration earlier, because their housing is regulated? How many waiting for the current waiting list will be housed earlier? The D66 Group likes to hear it from the cabinet. The current law lays down the principle of proportionality. It gives the municipalities the opportunity to work together with the housing cooperatives to offer those groups a home that most need it. Nor is the current proposal necessary for this. The point is that the number of houses needed is not available and the measures taken by the Cabinet so far have not led to sufficient solutions. In particular, these measures led to differences of opinion between the housing cooperatives and the cabinet, which will not be understood by the citizens concerned. Last week, too, there was a lot of talk about the black game between the Minister and the housing cooperatives. The Council of State is extremely critical of the proposed proposal. The Council of State even refers to Article 1 of the Constitution. Under the heading "equal treatment', the Council writes: "However, this results in a distinction being made between licence holders and regular house seekers as to the nature of the accommodation provided. This distinction is directly based on the residence permit of the person concerned and indirectly on the nationality of the holder of the authorisation. In fact, the category of licence holders is that it concerns only foreigners. (...) In this connection, the Section notes that an increase in a number of licence holders alone is not sufficient reason for unequal treatment between licence holders and others as regards the type of accommodation they are provided with." The cabinet does not share the criticism and considers that the present proposal does not distinguish between licence holders and regular house seekers. After all, the cabinet has added sober housing facilities to the housing stock and these are not only accessible to status holders but also to regular house seekers. The question is whether the cabinet does not refer to a paper and legal reality. I therefore also ask the Minister how many of the houses added to the administrative agreement have been realized and how many of them are inhabited by non-status holders. It is interesting, I believe, that the government's motivation for this proposal is in response to the Council of State. The Cabinet considers that the abolition of this statutory distinction is justified, given the large increase in the number of licence holders. In view of the social acceptance of the large group of licence holders, it is very important, according to the Cabinet, to prevent regular house seekers from engaging in social housing only after a very long period of time. Does the government not really indicate that it has not succeeded in achieving enough cheap rental homes for the citizens who are dependent on the social housing stock and that this problem has become more acute due to the influx of a number of asylum seekers who have become status holders? I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. In 2015, the Netherlands received asylum seekers who were driven out of their own country by war and misery. A large number of them were given a status after a strict procedure. It is in the general interest that these people quickly learn our language, receive education, become settled in and contribute to our society through work. The consequences of accepting these new citizens should, in the opinion of the D66 Group, be borne by society as a whole and not passed on to a group of Dutch people who are already struggling on the housing market or otherwise. Together with municipalities and housing cooperatives, we will have to face the housing consequences of this. It is therefore with great interest that the D66 Group looks forward to the Government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u4	Madam President. In Western Europe, and more particularly in the Netherlands, we live in a very privileged position when it comes to peace, security and prosperity. Of course you can happen to anything here, but in principle we can meet our own individual development as best we can. We believe that this situation of peace, security and prosperity also brings with it a divine responsibility to provide shelter for those who do not have it, who must save their lives. Justice means that we pursue a generous refugee policy and that the people who had to fear for their lives find a form of shelter. This has historically always been the role of the Netherlands. I'm talking about the 16th and 17th centuries. In this sense, this is in line with our best historical traditions. At the same time, there are thousands of house seekers who have sometimes been on a waiting list for years, who are now less easily arriving at a home. This proposal is not about the admission of refugees, but about the way in which we deal with housing in our country, among other things about the people who are pouring out the asylum-seekers' centres. The proposal is to end the legal tie-up when it comes to priority for licence holders over other priority categories and to indicate that there is only one thing that counts for the government: to meet the current targets in a qualitatively adequate way, leaving the way in which municipalities do so to themselves. For my group, the essence of this task is and must remain central. Furthermore, municipalities are strongly recommended to do so in the best way possible. Indeed, there is not a single model for this, which can be done in a way as indicated in the administrative agreement, for example through the Temporary Scheme to promote housing authorisation holders, or in other ways. If they meet the requirements for quality housing, municipalities can decide for themselves. The motive for this bill is that the waiting times for regular house seekers become so long. This is not easy to understand, according to the explanatory statement, because it would allow the acceptance of licence holders to evaporate if there were at least other possibilities for them. That is not what this proposal is about. Can this proposal be expected to provide an incentive which will have a positive effect on methods of housing other than just being on the priority list for social housing? Moreover, there is no obstacle to maintaining the priority position of the municipalities themselves. If a city in the housing regulation wants to keep this category as a priority, like the legally required categories, then so be it. All that matters is that the government no longer prescribes that. The Minister expects that this will provide an incentive to increase the numbers. In this context, I have the same question as Mr Pijlman. I too was surprised by the wording of Mr De Vries of the Socialist Group on the other side of the House on symbol legislation. We do not need this, nor did we need it in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. We therefore assume that what the Minister says is true and that this legislative proposal can be expected to be effective. But can he explain why a coalition colleague who indicated that he was only involved in this bill because it was agreed, calls it symbol legislation? This is important for us to take ourselves seriously. Indeed, it would be very strange for a coalition party to speak rightly about symbol legislation, and here we are following the legislative proposal on the assumption that the argument contained in the explanatory statement is correct. Can the Minister be more specific about the expected impact of the law? Can he show that changing the law by removing the mandatory category actually encourages the municipalities? After all, our aim is that, as I see it, 15,000 licence holders in asylum seekers' centres should be housed in a regular manner as soon as possible. Only then can their integration into society be achieved. In this respect, my group is somewhat surprised by the attitude of the members of the G32, who show in a special way that they prefer less than more freedom of policy. I just indicated that nothing forbids the municipalities to maintain that preference in their own regulation. The minister gives municipalities the freedom, but they are now begging us not to leave them that possibility. My answer would be: at the head of a municipality is the council, not the First Chamber or the legislator. B and W can, if they want to, agree with that council that they will do what they want, namely maintain that priority position. I'm surprised by that letter. Does the Minister still want to reflect on that? I have another question about the other categories that remain in the Housing Act. You can perhaps say for as much reason as the Minister now indicates that positive effects are expected from the deletion of this category of licence holders, that those other categories, namely those in stay-of-my homes and caregivers, are also better off if they go out of the law. Municipalities will then feel more responsibility and solve the problems themselves. Can the Minister answer that? In that case, we are in the process of deregulation. That's wonderful, because less rules and more effect everyone wants. The flow of refugees is less than before, but this does not mean that all solutions are available. I am not necessarily saying that refugee policy is improving. This is not so much a criticism of the Netherlands as of the general international situation. I think that, as a European society, we have a huge problem with the great moral issue of refugees. This does not mean that we have to stand in the way of some kind of framing or fixation in taking the most appropriate measures to achieve that central word 'justice'. I will inform the government that if justice is served by this bill, we will support it. If not, it will be difficult for us to support it. I am happy to await the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Housing Act 2014 which changes the position of licence holders in the allocation of housing leads to little joy. Apart from that, the bill does not solve the shortage of available homes, not for status holders and not for other people in the Netherlands who are looking for an affordable rental house. But it can lead to stigmatisation of an already vulnerable group. Under the Rutte I and II Cabinets, the share of cheap and affordable rentals in the housing stock has decreased significantly. This is not a natural phenomenon, but the result of conscious liberalisation policy and the gradual increase in the landlord levy. Liberalisation leads to the transfer of better housing from the social sector to market players, making them more expensive in practice. The landlord levy leads corporations to make money from their assets through a combination of sales and higher rents. The result for house seekers can be guessed: especially in the big cities people are eight to ten years on the waiting list for an affordable home and the number of people who live too expensive for their income has overtaken the number of people who live too cheaply during this cabinet period. Scheefwoningen has become more and more expensive living. The structural imbalance in the housing market is a result of deliberate liberalisation by the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. The influx of asylum seekers and the granting of refugee status is only marginal in this policy. And what does the Cabinet do? It amends the law so that status holders, about the most vulnerable group in the housing market, no longer need to be considered as urgent property seekers. It is as if we are at the station in the winter and say to the people waiting on the train: we have not enough space and anyone wearing only a summer coat can no longer buy a ticket from us; try it at the municipality. It is not for nothing that many organisations involved are seriously questioning this bill. VNG and IPO do not see any added value and do not consider the bill appropriate or desirable. The G32 calls the cabinet argument of the large influx of asylum seekers a deception and the legislative proposal itself totally superfluous and undesirable. In the debate in the Lower House, coalition party PvdA called the bill stupid. The dome of housing corporations Aedes thinks the proposal is unwise. The Verwey-Jonker Institute argues, on the basis of research at twenty large municipalities, to maintain the awareness of urgency for house-seeking licence holders. The Verwey-Jonker Institute requires specific attention for minors and for the consolidation of existing measures. They are not the words of my group, I am just quoting from what comes from the social field of qualifications. For the GroenLinks group, the impact on the housing market for licence holders is heavy. For the time being, those in the housing market seem to be nil. For status holders, the effects are only negative, in position and in imaging. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance does not see anything about the designation of one specific group in society whose urgency is reduced as a seeker of residence, especially if it is a group vulnerable to its recent arrival in the country. The influx of refugees is not the cause of the rising shortage of affordable housing in cities in particular. We have just argued that this has other causes. With this legislation, the cabinet seems implicitly to blame a group of people with a difficult starting position and hardly a social safety net in Dutch society. We find this politically undesirable, and there is a risk that a vulnerable group will be wrongly identified as the cause of a problem, without a solution being proposed. We're not in on that. From the role of the First Chamber, my group also looks at the constitutional side of the law. And then, too, there are considerable reservations. In its opinion, the Council of State is highly critical of the government's motivation to move away from the equal treatment of different groups of urgent housing seekers. Like my group, the Council of State sees great tension with the principle of equality as laid down in the Constitution and in the ECHR. Now fundamental rights are never absolute and there can be serious reasons and legitimate considerations to depart from a fundamental right as the principle of equality. Then there must be a sufficient and irrefutable motivation underneath. My group has not yet found it. This is all the more important because interested parties see no effect of the law in shortening waiting lists and helping people with an urgent need for affordable housing. We therefore ask the Minister once again to state clearly the motivation behind the departure from the principle of equality. The Human Rights College points out that the legislative proposal is based on the Refugee Convention and Article 32 of the EU Qualifications Directive. It requires Member States to make efforts to ensure equal opportunities for refugees in terms of access to housing. Paragraph 2 states that "Member States shall endeavour, without prejudice to the scope left for the national distribution of beneficiaries of international protection, to pursue a policy aimed at preventing discrimination against beneficiaries of international protection and providing them with equal opportunities in terms of access to housing." We ask the Minister how the bill relates to this anti-discrimination clause. This bill seems to be motivated by the suggestion that refugees receive preferential treatment. My group has a different view of this. Recognized refugees do not treat them as an urgent home seeker but put them on a normal waiting list, does not lead to equal treatment with other house seekers. Status holders are in a different position than people who have always lived here. They don't have roots and networks yet. They can't fall back on anyone and do need immediate housing. In fact, the longer it takes, the longer the Empire has to take care of the shelter, the more the central reception will be under pressure. And the more waiting times increase, the worse this is for the integration of licence holders, because it really starts with the establishment in a municipality, where language and labour market leadership can be started. And what are the consequences for family reunification? Refugees should apply for family reunification within three months of granting status, precisely because a rapid deadline would promote integration. However, this only makes sense if a house is also available to the family. Who's gonna take responsibility for that? I'd like a response from the Minister. With this bill, the cabinet is moving away from a long history in which the Empire actively engaged in helping to distribute constantly changing groups of migrants responsibly across the country over the years. The fraction of the Christian Union began in 1600. I start a little later, namely shortly after the Second World War: from Indian Dutch to Moluccans, later Surinamese and now refugees with a status. Housing of new groups of people in society has also led to resistance in the past. That is why it was and is important that the Empire should also assume its responsibilities and that municipalities and housing seekers with a foreign background should not be left alone. With this law, there is now a change of heart. Symbol legislation is the understanding that we have come across the most in the opinions on this law. We think that is too understated. The signal the cabinet sends to status holders is negative. The signal to society that we are solving a problem with this is meaningless. The signal to municipalities is: solve it yourself. In this way, the government takes steps back into the reception and integration of refugees who have been granted a recognised status. That is something we do not want to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. We see a huge migration with large numbers of refugees in Europe. Our receiving system beeps and creaks. The Netherlands is doing this well. My group very much appreciates this for all volunteers, municipalities, the COA and refugee organisations; for everyone who helps. Yet there are always new problems. One of them we are discussing today: the legal automatic priority for licence holders. The problem with this priority is twofold. It does not invite us to look for alternatives and is not conducive to support for reception in general. That is precisely what is needed. It is therefore proposed to remove the legal automatic priority and to leave priority to the municipalities. My group believes that this is a good proposal. It has been criticised from several quarters, briefly in six points: the proposal impedes outflow; priority is indispensable for achieving the target; We need to build more; it is symbol legislation; it leads to exclusion; financial support is insufficient. That's a big deal. That is why I would like to say something about it. First of all, it hinders the outflow. Authorisation holders are entitled to housing, health care, education and work. This promotes their integration. My group supports this. However, regular house seekers also have interests. These interests are not weighed up in the current law. They're rejected unseen and categorial. It's hard to accept, and it doesn't make it any bigger. Secondly, priority must be given to achieving the target.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u7	I would like to ask Mr Schouwenaar what he actually expects of this bill when it comes to the position of people on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u8	Does Mr. Pijlman mean the people on the regular waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u9	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u10	We expect increased building effort to create more living space to meet the target, but also to create more living space for house seekers who are on the regular waiting lists. It should be stressed that the temporary subsidy scheme, other housing schemes, or municipal acceleration arrangements, are not only for status holders but also for people who have been on the waiting list for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u11	That's true, but that temporary arrangement is already there. Nevertheless, Mr Schouwenaar expects that the bill we are talking about today will lead to more building. I'd really like him to point that out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u12	I don't remember saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u13	We could hit it. I thought he just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u14	That there is more use of alternative construction as the conversion of offices. That's what I'm gonna call it. I don't mean the corporation sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u15	Okay. Does Mr Schouwenaar mean that this legislative proposal will make greater use of the temporary possibilities for enlargement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u17	Even if municipalities do not use it, because they do not think it is good instruments for other reasons, as many have argued?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u18	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In that case, municipalities will have to provide housing in a different way. That is their mission. I believe that is stated in Article 13 (4). I would have stuck to the second point, which is that priority is needed in order to achieve the objective. This criticism is somewhat unwieldy for my group. The task allows us to first look for alternatives; then, if alternative construction does not yield enough, municipalities can decide to give priority. That does not require any legal automation. By the way, just over half of the municipalities can achieve the task without priority. The third critical point is that we are not building enough. So we need to build more. Or, as some say, build, build. My group is wondering: what are we going to build? Alternative construction, converting offices into living space: that's fine. And regular house seekers can also use it. But should we also accelerate the construction of more social housing? It could be. Maybe it'll help, but there's no question about that. The sector is already too large... Excuse me, my phone's ringing; now I'm completely out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u19	It's your own fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u20	That's my own fault, all right. It takes time; I know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u21	For a moment, I thought it was a corporation calling with an offer. I was wondering what Mr Schouwenaar wanted to say. He started out hopefully: maybe more social housing needs to be built. That would perhaps be a bridge in our opinion. Where does he see opportunities for that? Then maybe we have something we could all agree on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u22	The sector is already too large with 2.4 million homes for a target group of 1.8 million households. And rebuilding takes time. The corporations are lagging behind while we have a problem now. As regards Mr Lintmeijer's question, in general, we are in favour of a policy which is not as large as it has been in recent decades. A large proportion of those seeking accommodation do not concern families consisting of men and women or men and a number of children, but are single or start-ups; the latter are two. In this respect, there is a wide range of larger homes and too little supply of smaller... Now my phone's ringing again!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u23	It's not easy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u24	No, it's not easy. Thanks for the moral support. Now I'm off my toes again. As far as we are concerned, the policy should be focused and perhaps be focused for a long time, because that is a matter of years on the disposal of large houses. They generate a yield and can be rebuilt smaller. Maybe there's another way to do it. We have read that the corporations have a lot of money at their disposal, so that could also be used for additional buildings, but also for smaller houses than we have been used to so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u25	I also read those figures in the Minister's written reply. I am absolutely convinced that he is right in terms of numbers, but this is a bit like the statement that everyone in the Netherlands is rich if you add up the entire capital of everyone and share it by the number of inhabitants of the Netherlands; then everyone is rich. Only, you will have different housing needs in different parts of the Netherlands. So that means that at some point, whether you like it or not, you're gonna have to build up. That's what corporations have to do. You can't always sell another property for that; you just have to do that in certain regions. And one corporation isn't the other. So you can't generalize this in the sense of: there's enough, so you can sell and then you can do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u26	I think it's okay if we take a general look at things here. The minister doesn't build houses. He's not a corporate director either, which is how I read on Saturday, but he's system responsible. For us, this means that we too are looking at the system as a whole. Repulsion of larger homes has another advantage: primarily that it generates a yield for which social, regulated homes with a slightly smaller volume and thus also a slightly lower rent due to the appropriate allocation can be rebuilt. In addition, these larger houses can serve to be liberalised in the near future, in order to contribute to the filling of the middle segment, which Mrs De Vries-Legge has also talked about. The fourth point of criticism is that it concerns symbol legislation. My group does not share that criticism. The proposal leads to decentralisation. The municipality itself decides on priority rather than that there is a legal automatic priority from The Hague. This municipal authority is an incentive, an incentive to look for alternative construction. The advantage of this is less displacement, so more support. The fifth criticism concerns exclusion. On the other hand, my group believes that the proposal eliminates inequality. Everyone is treated equally on our territory. This means that we do offer refugees shelter, housing and education. This is all in line with Article 1 of the Constitution, but we do not give priority. The final criticism is that the financial arrangements are inadequate. My group does not want to exclude the possibility of improving the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u27	I have a question about the previous point of priority. Is it not logical, in line with what Mr Schouwenaar is proposing, to skip anyone who so far has a priority position? Those are people who are actually homeless. A licence holder is also actually homeless when he has to leave the asylum-seekers' centre. In Mr Schouwenaar's reasoning, all these groups should therefore be skipped. Why does Mr Schouwenaar take out that particular group, while his reasoning applies to all these groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u28	Let us say first of all that this bill calls into question one of the three groups which, according to the law, can count on urgency. Both other groups are not currently under discussion. But I admit that Mr Arrowman has a point. As we look at priority in general, you might wonder if you should do it this way. One may ask whether not an economic, social commitment should also be a reason for urgency and priority. That could be a very interesting discussion. I say that from the point of view of the fact that the allocation of housing is something very essential. On the one hand, this calls for extra attention to people's needs and, on the other hand, not too soon to decide that one goes for the other. The fact that people are being made homeless, I fight. It can never be the case that licence holders are thrown out of the door by the COA and have to see where they are staying. The task remains in place, so the municipalities remain responsible and very busy making sure that it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u29	Mr Schouwenaar just said that I had a point to make and that it is worth considering whether all these groups should perhaps lose their priority status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u30	Mr Schouwenaar, your phone is ringing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u31	I'm trying to turn it off, but I can't do that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u32	Course, course!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u33	I think it's a fan. Mr Schouwenaar says that all these groups could lose their status. But why is the cabinet taking out this particular group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u34	You're asking the cabinet, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u35	I'm asking you because you're absolutely defending it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u36	Because this point is now before us. It is of course very interesting to extend this subject to adjacent areas, but that seems to me to go too far now. Moreover, in the Netherlands there seems to be a strong consensus that we also want to differentiate in the allocation of housing to the degree of urgency of one and the other. But once again, you can discuss this; that has also been shown in recent decades, because there has been a lot of discussion, particularly on the issue of economic and social cohesion. The final point of criticism is that financial arrangements are inadequate. My group does not want to rule out the possibility of improving the arrangements, but financial bottlenecks should not, in our view, be the basis for a legal automatic priority. Priority in the allocation of a dwelling is a heavy asset, especially for the candidate who is rejected. This should be based on a sound local balance. All in all, my group recognizes that criticism is possible, but we do not assign decisive weight to it. It is our priority to make better use of the possibilities of alternative construction and to maintain the support base. That is why we support this proposal. I apologize again for the fact that my phone went off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u37	Maybe by now you've figured out how to shut it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. The population housing in the Netherlands is highly decentralised. Municipalities and corporations have been given a dominant role alongside the Empire. The need for higher building production and attention to the social rental sector is shared by all. I assumed that, but I have just heard in Mr Schouwenaar's speech that he was still in doubt. Recent assessments of the landlord levy show that the social housing stock has decreased and that although there is a national theoretical balance in supply and demand, there are real tensions in regional housing markets. The CDA Group has also pointed out this in its contribution. This calls for particular attention to be paid to the instruments that the Empire can use in regions with increasing tensions, but also in regions with shrinking phenomena. In other words, national direction remains necessary. This is why the Dutch Labour Party in the Lower House stipulated that an additional deployment of at least 14,000 housing units would be achieved through agreements of the cabinet with the municipalities in order to enable them to better fulfil their mission. That changed the balance sheet in a positive way in favour of this bill. Then, in two written rounds, this Chamber held an exchange of views with the government on the proportionality of the legal expiry of the urgency status and on the extent to which the government now has sufficient material support for the municipalities in their task. As a result of this detailed report, we have the following questions to the cabinet. We too have taken note of the recent letter from the UNG and ask the Minister to explain the conclusion that the bill would have no material meaning. In his reply, he himself, by adopting this bill, said that he expected an increase in housing opportunities and that he did not see any additional risks to the housing mission as regards urgency. Can the Minister clarify this? Can he also indicate how he assesses the enforcement measures, or possibly the enforcement burden, resulting from the release of urgency by the Empire and whether the need for enforcement will increase as a result of this bill? The Labour Party's group attaches great importance to a good working relationship between the Empire, municipalities and corporations in order to manage the housing mission. Decentralisation does not, in our view, mean creating a distance between the levels of government which, on the contrary, have an important task to achieve, unitedly and in harmony with the use of mutually available instruments. The vote emerging from the VNG letter could perhaps have been avoided if the government had more generously provided for arrangements to strengthen the development of alternative housing opportunities and had responded appropriately and more quickly to the presence of bottlenecks, as demonstrated by the evaluation of the Verwey-Jonker Institute's research on the issue of exploitation. In a more detailed report, the Minister argues that the use of the subsidy scheme is not an end in itself and the conditions he has imposed on it saves society costs. We find this argument questionable, since it does not primarily aim to promote the purpose of the scheme: to promote greater support for municipalities in the creation of housing opportunities. These costs will always have to be weighed against the social costs and losses associated with the stagnation of the housing of status holders and other housing seekers. It is clear that additional investment is needed to make housing suitable. The conditions currently in force do not seem to correspond sufficiently to the creativity needed to create suitable places. It is appropriate for the government to provide a firm support for this rather than merely finding that the use of the scheme is not an end in itself. We would like to hear a reaction from the government on these and other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u39	Mr. Chairman. I often begin my speech on a draft law which briefly reflects the substance of the proposal. That is almost impossible to do with this draft law, because it seeks to change the way in which licence holders are housed in the municipalities, but it does not. The reaction of the Association of Dutch Municipalities, who sent us a letter on Friday, is appealing. I quote the end of their letter. "The legislative proposal still suggests that there is no need for urgency for status holders. This affects the entire climate around permit holders' housing. That is unfortunate, because the bill only regulates that if a municipality establishes an emergency regime, it is no longer required by law that licence holders belong to the urgent housing seekers. The legislative proposal therefore has no material meaning." I repeat this sentence of the VNG letter: "The legislative proposal has no material meaning. It does not offer municipalities any more opportunities to deliver customised local services, nor does it offer any more freedom of choice in the housing of licence holders, nor does it offer more tools to combat displacement in the housing market. The legislative proposal thus does not contribute to the solution of the problem." This quote could be the text of a joint explanation of vote, which this Chamber rejects the draft law. In fact, the facts that the VNG lists are irrefutable. Unfortunately, in this Chamber too, some parties seem to be cheating themselves with the idea that this law is good for something. Authorisation holders should be housed in a municipality as soon as possible in order to further shape their lives in our society. In municipalities with low available affordable housing, the Housing Regulation provides for urgent housing seekers to take precedence over people who do not currently live appropriately, but are already housed. Authorisation holders belong to the group of urgents, like all the others who are technically homeless. There is therefore no preference for licence holders. They are treated just as much as other urgent house seekers. In equal cases, equal treatment is applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u40	We've recently been able to read an investigation from the RIGO. WoON also gave us figures. The waiting lists were examined and it turns out that most of the waiting lists, two thirds, are not hard. Those people are waiting to save time. However, there is a part that is hard and there is also a part that is urgent. The bill mentions those regular house seekers. Why now should those urgent housing seekers, who need a home in the short term in order not to get into trouble, give that to them themselves should be disadvantaged compared to those who are given priority urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u41	They are not disadvantaged at all. Also in the current law and in the current housing regulations it is stipulated that people with a residence status are the people we are talking about here urgent, as are all the other urgent ones, who are in some municipalities. Under the current legislation, they do not take precedence over those other emergencies, but rather over others who are on the waiting list, like all the other urgent ones, who are technically homeless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u42	That doesn't solve the problem. There are too few homes, there is too little housing; so you cannot simply say that all these urgent needs come because they are urgent. At some point, however, a choice will have to be made in a specific situation. You can only assign a property once at that lowest municipal level; then it is still: either one or the other urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u43	Of course. Fortunately, despite the long waiting lists and the large shortage of social housing, there are fortunately a lot of others in all the municipalities besides all the urgent ones, including the licence holders. Of the properties allocated, 10% or 20% of the total amount of housing saved per municipality is allocated to this group. Fortunately, the other 80% to 90% goes to others. That's all under the current law. But Mr Schouwenaar is right: you can assign a house, at least the same house at the same time, but only once, so where one comes in, the other cannot yet enter. The problem is that, in terms of housing requirements, there are too few homes, at least in very large parts of the country. That problem remains, even if we adopt this law. I will come to that in a moment, but that problem does not change at all. The same applies to the allocation to licence holders, as has already been shown by the VNG's quotation. I shall come back to that in a moment. My first point was that, under the current law, there is an equal treatment between licence holders and other urgent housing seekers who are in the same position. Nevertheless, the VVD in its fight with the PVV for voters, with the motion-Van der Linde in the Lower House.................................................................................................................................................... However, as far as we are concerned, the obligation for municipalities to provide permit holders with accommodation quickly remains in this legislative proposal. That will therefore also be the case in the future situation, if this bill were to become law, in most cases the allocation of a special rental house. Since this has to be done quickly, it is a priority. In some cases alternative housing will be provided, now that this housing, supported by subsidies, is created on a limited scale. However, this will allow only a limited group of licence holders to be provided for housing. The allocation of licence holders to such alternative housing may also be possible if this group is included in the housing regulation as an emergency seeker; this can therefore also be done under the current law. Therefore, where alternative housing is provided, which can only partially solve the problem, the urgent seeker or the beneficiary may be referred to. Then there is still a large part that will simply have to be placed in a social home, as a matter of priority, even if this bill is passed. Materially, therefore, nothing changes, even if a municipality under the new law on licence holders is no longer appointed as an urgent group. According to the other article, this is the article that Mr Schouwenaar could just as well list; I believe that Article 14 (1) is so much that the licence holders still have priority, i.e. within six months, to place them in a social home. That's gonna stay. This also leads to the displacement of other people looking for their homes; this is inevitable. The amended draft law now before us there is therefore no more than symbolic legislation by the PvdA Group on the other side. It has no material effect on the placement of asylum-seekers in housing in the municipalities. It is therefore logical that both the municipalities concerned and the housing corporations concerned say that they do not need this legislative amendment. Shouldn't all the groups in this Chamber, all of which assess the legislation on its merits, actually share that conclusion? The Minister mentions as an advantage of the new law that municipalities will think more about alternative accommodation for licence holders, as the automatic urgency for this group in the allocation of a social housing unit lapses. That sounds like an illusion to me. The municipalities are now thinking about that too. What were you thinking? All the municipalities with too few social housing units, we are talking here about waiting lists, and we have a housing regulation which regulates priority. All these municipalities receive a large allocation of asylum recipients. They have the opportunity to look at questions like "can we build more?" and "maybe we can offer more alternative housing?', And they're already looking at it. Why should they think about it if this automatic priority disappears, at least this automatic appointment as an "urgent house seeker" if they haven't done so yet? Can the Minister state one rational argument for that? The reaction of the G30, or the G32, does not seem to indicate that at all. Those cities all say that for us, that's not gonna change anything. Where does the Minister come up with the idea that people will now think more often that there might be a need to build up, whether or not in the form of alternative housing? The municipalities do not seem to be encouraged to do so. They do not see this law as something with which they can actually change or improve the situation. They are therefore asking us massively to reject this bill. What would make sense to tackle the problem of growing waiting lists and the displacement of house seekers is a considerable increase in the social rental stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u44	It is logical that all problems will be reduced quickly if we could build more homes. But could Mr Köhler, also as an ex-alderman of a large city, reflect on the fact that municipalities are given more powers rather than less, also given the existing housing stock and the existing rules on alternative facilities for licence holders? Municipalities always advocate greater powers vis-à-vis the Empire, for municipal autonomy, especially with regard to local issues. How then is it that, as soon as they are allowed to decide to simply maintain this category, municipalities are asking us massively to do so? I wonder what's behind that. Does Mr Köhler have any idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u45	Yeah, I have an idea. I don't think that idea is very original either. Under the existing law, municipalities have to place a hundred licence holders, let me mention that number for convenience -- in their scarce housing stock. Next, there will be a new law which deletes in one article that they must put those people first, while another article states that they must move them quickly. Municipalities do not get any more freedom of policy because of this; they end up in a ghost fight. They may change their housing regulations, but they usually won't, because that's very impractical. But even if they do, it will not have any material effect, because even if that group is no longer referred to as urgent in the housing regulation, they must all place these 100 people as a priority, preferably within six months and at least within one year, in the same small or equally large housing stock. Municipalities are therefore no longer given any more political freedom. They also do not get any more opportunities to provide alternative housing, because they already have that possibility. It is already subject to a subsidy scheme and it is not improving either, but that is another issue. In addition to making better or even more use of alternative housing, which could solve only a very small part of the problem, this is a substantial increase in the social rental stock, but it has only been reduced by the policies of this government and its predecessors. In this situation, I think it is a mistake that the Minister accused the housing corporations last week of not building enough social housing, in a transparent attempt to blame his failing policy on another. Minister, if it's snowing, it's a good thing you're cleaning up your street, but you don't have to deposit the shit in front of the neighbors' door. Finally, I would like to comment on the possibilities for permit holders entering alternative forms of housing in the housing market. Sometimes it's temporary housing, sometimes it's independent living space, sometimes it's both. Residents of this type of housing must then seek permanent, preferably independent housing. In the written consultation on this draft law, the Minister says that these licence holders, like others who are looking for a suitable home, may be on the waiting list, but in some municipalities it may take another ten years to get their turn for independent housing. I would therefore ask the Minister whether this can be the intention as far as he is concerned. Are people supposed to spend ten years in this alternative housing? The problem of passing on to a regular home can become even worse now that the legislative proposal deletes the provision that licence holders should not be disadvantaged by those seeking housing with an economic or social connection to the municipality. What is the point in the legislative proposal? As always, the SP group is looking forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. It is a matter of urgency that asylum seekers with a residence permit, so-called status holders, have been given priority in the allocation of social housing for many years. This is a mandatory priority position vis-à-vis many other house seekers in this country. In practice, status holder is not only a residence status, but also a privileged status. In addition to the privilege of a social rental house, municipalities provide generous allowances for the furnishing of these properties, sometimes up to €10,000, such as the municipality of Oisterwijk. There are also examples of municipalities that assign homes to status holders that a normal Dutch tenant can only dream of. As an example, I mention the municipality of Waalre, which housed a Syrian family with six children in a capital villa with a WPA value of more than half a million euros. The generosity of this municipality was shamelessly abused by this status holder by setting up a hemp farm there. This came to light when the villa recently burned to the ground by this hemp farm. The municipality then also provided a replacement housing for this family. These examples are typical of the insanity of asylum suffered by the authorities in this country. This law, which removes the legally mandatory emergency provision for housing status holders, formally restricts the privileged status of asylum seekers. Formally, because it is the question to what extent this will be the case in practice. Local authorities can still include an emergency provision for status holders in their housing regulations. Many municipalities may still do so, as the legal remit for the housing of status holders imposed by the Empire remains unchanged. In fact, according to the Administrative Agreement increased asylum influx, the cabinet now intends to charge the costs to municipalities that do not soon enough, within 12 weeks, to the status holders assigned to this municipality by the draft Act Cost Story Housing Authorisation Holders. This is due to additional costs for the COA due to the longer stay in an asylum seekers' centre, which is now based on €1,850 per month per status holder. And this in addition to the possible placement measure of the province if the municipality fails to achieve the mission of the number of status holders to be established, which in practice means that the province rents a house for status holders at the expense of that municipality. By placing these measures as a sword of Damocles above the municipalities, there is a good chance that in practice many municipalities will still allocate homes to status holders with urgency. Does the Minister see this effect? While the cabinet now threatens to pass on the costs of the COA to municipalities, many municipalities are already burdened with high costs, caused by the same Administrative Agreement increased asylum influx. Last year, asylum seekers' centres had to be set up in virtually every municipality. The cabinet had instructed the King's Commissioners in their role as the ruler of the state to optimally facilitate the mass asylum invasion. With an unparalleled "wir purchase tie" mentality, many provinces have started to do so, so diligently that, now that the COA has abandoned some azc locations, there are municipalities with large costs. As an example, I mention the municipality of Deurne, where €134.000 had already been spent on preparation costs for a former monastery, costs that the municipality cannot recover from the COA. Local authorities are also faced with other related costs of housing status holders, such as assistance, care and integration costs. Ultimately, these costs are for the tax-paying citizen, who does not have a privileged status. The aim of the present law is to remove the mandatory priority position for status holders in order to broaden the housing allocation possibilities of municipalities. However, these opportunities are not endless either, let alone to justify them to other house-seekers and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u47	If I understand Mr Van Hattem correctly, he is opposed to all the regulations that encourage asylum recipients from the asylum centre to move to places of residence in any municipality. If he is consistent, does he share the view that the asylum-seekers should all remain in the asylum-seekers' centres, even after they have been granted a residence permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u48	The best solution is reception in the region and not in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u49	My question was not about that, Mr Van Hattem knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u50	But that's my solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u51	Regardless of whether the Netherlands is closing the borders...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u52	That's what we should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u53	... and whether this could be done, there are now a number of asylum seekers in the Netherlands. They're in asylum-seekers' centres. Some of them are recognised as refugees and receive asylum and a temporary residence permit. Those people need to be housed somewhere. Mr Van Hattem is against all arrangements to house those people somewhere. Then the consequence of Mr Van Hattem's position is that they should be in those asylum seekers' centres at the cost of taxpayers of €1,850 a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u54	It's very clear. We opt for shelter in our own region. I shall come back to this later in my speech. A lot of people who come to the Netherlands come through illegal routes. That is one reason why we do not want and want to receive so many people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u55	This debate is not about people who are not entitled to asylum, but about people who are entitled to asylum and who are already in the Netherlands and about how we house them. That is what this legislative amendment is about, and that is what my questions to Mr Van Hattem are about. He apparently refuses to acknowledge that, if you do not find a single facility for this, the only possible consequence is that people stay in those asylum seekers' centres, something that costs the Dutch taxpayer a great deal more than to house them somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-06-eerstekamer-9.u56	I conclude that the SP is more concerned about the housing of those so-called asylum seekers than about the housing of our Dutch citizens. Now that building new rentals takes a lot of time, money and effort, some municipalities are purchasing existing homes. The municipality of Bladel, for example, receives an additional 3 million euros. Earlier this year, this municipality bought ten homes for status holders for 1.8 million euros in order to fulfil its mission. The policy of open borders quickly brings financial borders into sight. As long as we don't close the borders, it's mopping with the tap open. Because what else do the municipalities get for the choices? Yesterday it was announced that in November a record number of 5,000 status holders was allocated a residence. In one month alone, then. At that rate we reach 60,000 people on an annual basis, a complete city that needs to be housed. How does the Minister think the Netherlands can sustain this? Is he convinced that with the so-called expanded possibilities, the priority position of status holders disappears in practice and that Dutch tenants are not being replaced on the housing market and are faced with longer and longer waiting lists? I'd like a response. And then there are followers, the family members of status holders who come to the Netherlands through family reunification. This week, the NRC wrote that at least 20,000 Syrians from Turkey and Lebanon will be coming to the Netherlands in the coming months, following asylum seekers who have often come to the Netherlands via illegal routes, via Turkey, Greece and the Balkans, thus already leaving behind many safe countries, often women and children. These fortune seekers are not primarily looking for security, but for our prosperity. Does the Minister consider it justified that houses should be made available to them on a massive scale? I'd like a response. Quite maddening is that some of these asylum seekers complain when they have to live under one roof with multiple status holders. Last July, the Eritrean Hissen and the Syrian Mazin complained in the Volkskrant that they did not have an independent home, but a house they had to share with six. The attached photo showed a capital detached house, with large garden, on the green village edge of Veldhoven. That building used to accommodate disabled children. It is a property with a status that is not reserved for many Dutch house-seekers, nor for neighbours of asylum seekers, who are often extremely troubled and whose complaints are not taken seriously. For example in Ter Apel, where the neighbors of the azc can no longer leave string hanging from the mailbox. Not so long ago, in the reconstruction years, in the time when, according to Jan Terlouw, the strings were still hanging from the mailbox, many Dutch families lived under one roof in relatively small houses. Young couples had to marry parents or in-laws. Often Grandpa or Grandpa lived in and sometimes also a guest. And for asylum seekers, would this be too much to ask? The generations that the Netherlands built then, and their children and grandchildren, are now once again faced with years of waiting lists and priceless private-sector rentals. For them, the PVV says: enough is enough. For them, we're going to take back the Netherlands. Stopping the priority position of asylum seekers for rental homes is only a small but necessary step. Therefore, the PVV will vote for this bill.
