ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We live on a fragile continent. Think about it. All the Member States of the European Union are small by global standards. The amount of natural resources is limited here. The territory is generally difficult to defend; borders are porous. We depend on a global order that we cannot guarantee ourselves. And last but not least, Europe is getting smaller simply because new emerging states outside Europe are getting bigger and more powerful. That is why it is so logical that a common foreign policy was a central theme in the Maastricht Treaty in 1993 and even more a renewed ambition after the great European schism about the American invasion of Iraq in 2003. Pooling forces to deal with these vulnerabilities! Little has come of that, because we were given the opportunity to fool ourselves. We did this mainly with the help of illusions, which have the characteristic of being persistent. Firstly, some Member States in Europe have remained genuinely of the opinion that they are far more important in the international world than is actually the case. Secondly, we have liked to admit to the illusion that the world is primarily benevolent and cooperative. In the opinion of the EU country, it is convinced that Russia will naturally integrate into our open, free architecture of living together. With such a benevolent optimism, it has been possible to eliminate defence budgets for years. Thirdly, everyone has persistently maintained the illusion that, as a matter of fact, the United States will take care of our security, while America has said 'no, thank you' on several occasions, for example in Libya and Syria. Fourthly, in the rays of sunshine, we cherish the idea that the European Union is a moral superpower. We approach the rest of the world with soft power and moral superiority in the certainty that the rest will eventually be no different than us. A fascinating cocktail, in short, of idealism, naivety and illusions. The last European security strategy is back in 2003 and is logically based on such an optimistic and sometimes complacent view of the world. It's all multilateralism that beats the clock. In order to avoid misunderstandings, we are strongly in favour of multilateralism and the Brussels machinery is also good at this. However, we must not turn our backs on a sometimes cold geopolitical reality which, unfortunately, also demands its share in international relations. Now it has to be said that it has gone well for a long time. We can now see that we are paying a price for this. That price is actually always the same in such a situation. After all, the price of weakness is a reduced sovereignty over strategic decisions. The refugee crisis makes the pregnant visible. Those who cannot defend their borders properly, those who have no power to contribute in the burning region to crisis management, safe ports, socio-economic progress and stability, are forced to act out of a position of weakness. The deal with Turkey is, in this respect, one from the book: we pay the price of one's own weakness. Ergo, the European Union bows to power, pays and hopes that it will end well. The next prize is in Africa. In a number of areas of instability, just below the Sahara, there are tiny EU missions to contribute to stabilisation and crisis management. The Netherlands has done an admirable job in Mali and the commitment of this minister is well known and appreciated. From the wider perspective of the Union, it is all ad hoc and without many policies. Last time I asked the Minister about the EU Battlegroups. He didn't answer it at the time. Those battlegroups have been around for almost ten years, at least on paper, but nothing has ever been done with them. One time a country didn't want the cost, the other time a country didn't want to identify with Europe and the next time everyone hoped to let the French take the chestnuts out of the fire. It also happened once that decision-making had been delayed for so long that the facts had overtaken it all. It was about Chad at the time. What does the Dutch Government think about this? Does she see any chances of pulling these battlegroups smoothly? Don't get me wrong: security is not only a matter of sending soldiers on, but can sometimes play a crucial role. Africa is a socio-economic, ideological and sometimes demographic time bomb, certainly a number of large cities. We are now letting China set the tone there in the future. There is no question of European diplomacy as a powerful entity. The third D, that of development, offers the sight of fragmentation. As far as the huge Brussels budgets are concerned, this is an approach that is decoupled from a European interest. We cannot even blame the Brussels development agencies for this, because there is no defined European interest. America has national interests, vital interests, which allow the President to act. Britain knows it too, France knows it too, Italy knows it too, and so you could go on for a while. However, there is no European interest, simply because Europe is not a state. That is, of course, not without consequences. Take the relationship with China. The United States is following a pragmatic, cautious course. They give priority to that region with the "pivot to Asia'. Europe, on the other hand, has no course. Each one travels to China and hopes to return with trade benefits. China is, rightly from its point of view, competent in this respect. It's playing Member States against each other. For example, in Central Europe, through the Investment Forum 16+1, it has given itself a wonderful economic preference. In America it happens sometimes that a powerful Chinese company does not enter, because then America relies on its national interest. Europe never does, because Europe has no national interest; it only has competing Member States. Of course, it doesn't matter to criticize this alone. The point is that we are working on improvements. Does this cabinet see opportunities for this or should we accept for the time being that it is as it is? Our group is curious about the ideas and plans of this cabinet. Our cabinet will be aware that China is currently building the logistics infrastructure for a base in Djibouti. China has also become more active with peace operations in the region. A Chinese white paper states that this is about "effective participation in security cooperation and the safeguarding of Chinese interests overseas." Of course, it is quite right. In itself, this can also be very positive. It also offers opportunities to work together to promote stability in Africa, but again the question is how such a thing should work if Europe cannot be a party because of fragmentation and individual Member States are too small for such a thing. Following the attacks in Paris last November, the French President did not call in NATO's assistance, as America did after 9/11. As you know, Article 5 of the NATO Treaty obliges allies to come to the aid of the NATO partner if the territory is threatened. No, President Hollande referred to the relatively obscure Article 42 (7) of the European Treaty of Lisbon. It states that EU Member States are obliged to provide each other with all possible assistance when one of them is a victim of armed aggression on its territory. The High Representative Mogherini was there as the chickens to swear that this would not imply any EU security mission. How does the Dutch government feel about this? Do this Minister see the French request as an embryonic step towards more European security cooperation or perhaps simply as something typical of French? I would just like to say that my group welcomes this French step. This question is also relevant because aid to France implies a lot. After all, the country is military in many places. It is active in Lebanon, the Horn of Africa, Mali and the Central African Republic. Is there not a duty to increase European burden-sharing now that even the French have found that it is all a bit much for them? Take Lebanon. France has been carrying a heavy burden there for decades. We all know how important that is, because chaos in Lebanon will also immediately put millions of people on the run. I realize that these are uncomfortable issues, but the situation at our southern and eastern borders is not easy. We must also realise that a European security and defence policy is difficult to set up with 28 Member States. There are too many different orientations and interests for this. However, I tend towards optimism when a few countries join forces and point the way. It is conceivable that some small cores form around lead nations such as France or Germany. We would welcome initiatives by the Cabinet to shape and encourage this. We see opportunities in that area. How does the Cabinet see this? Such a development, of course, also requires far-reaching military coordination. Task specialisation is a sensitive issue, which affects the sovereignty of Member States. But it will have to happen that one country focuses more on one specialization while the other is more focused on the other specialization. If not, additional resources for the Defense Department are only additional contributions to fragmentation and not to pooled assets, and thus lost money. America still plays a major role in our security. NATO provides the framework for this. Since Russia's geopolitical ambition is so assertive, NATO is once again a central security anchor for many Member States. But the European Union must also be a party here. After all, the Russian strategy is not one of normal warfare. No, it works with special units from the inside, it undermines integrity, it manipulates minorities, and it uses psychological weapons and cyberattacks. Defence against this requires investment in stability and also in economic resilience. It requires investment in things that are more European than NATO. Let us not fool ourselves: in America, irritation is growing about the profiteering behaviour of European countries. That is why it is good that Europe, and therefore our country, is more concerned about a fair contribution to our own security. Security is more than military resilience. Our destiny and political cohesion in the West can also be strengthened by new connections, for example by a new trade agreement between Europe and America. All kinds of groups get very excited about TTIP, for example when it comes to chlorine chicken, maize and trade arbitrage. That is all right, and that is sometimes extremely sensible, but let us not lose sight of the geopolitical perspective. TTIP is hardly about commercial goods; it is about standards, rules for contracts, socio-economic practices, standards and fair procurement. It is about a final opportunity for Europeans and Americans together to determine how people interact in the global marketplace. If this is not done, rapidly growing countries outside the West will soon be imposing their own standards more and more on the international community. In that sense TTIP is geopolitics of the first order, however much it is possible for us to care about the chicken. On this point, I do have a question for the cabinet. Can it actually be seriously negotiated in Brussels when we in the Netherlands might be able to have the whole thing cancelled by referendum by angry citizens? How seriously do they take the Dutch input in Brussels and Washington as they get what Dutch government positions and parliamentary decisions are really worth. A good example of common European foreign policy is the boycott package against Russia following the annexation of Crimea and the undermining of the Minsk agreements. The division between the Member States is considerable, but so far it has been possible to draw a common line, especially thanks to Germany. My group appreciates this consensus and the contributions made by this cabinet. The effectiveness of the boycott is questionable. I'm curious about the government's judgment. Moreover, it is striking that a small, plutocratic circle around Putin in cities such as London and Vienna continues to benefit unhindered from the security and legal protection of the West. They live well there. Their children benefit from good universities. They give literal and cynical content to the expression "best of both worlds." The current boycott is not exactly a highlight of sophistication in a globalised era. How does the cabinet see the effectiveness and perspective of this boycott? Finally. Today we are talking about security in Europe. There's safe limits to that. We do not need to discuss the refugee debate, but, as I said at the beginning, our borders are porous. There was a rush last summer at a European Border and Coast Guard Agency. The Commission put a plan on the table. We've been three-quarters of a year. I understand the trilogue could start, but ask the cabinet what's going on. When will this Border and Coast Guard Agency be real? Or do we actually keep leaning on the blunt axe of Macedonia, which has simply blocked the passage for everyone? Those are urgent questions at a time when perhaps we are not so shy of an ever closer Union, but all the more so of a stronger Union, capable of standing in the midst of international threats, defending interests and values and protecting citizens. Our group looks forward to the exchange of views with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. "I've come to the conclusion that a friendly word with a gun in its hand works out more than just a friendly word." With this dry but realistic statement by John Dillinger, I want to use my contribution to international security. The criminal trial against Verviers' terrorists had to be stopped recently. The Belgian security staff demanded better working conditions and therefore refused to work after 16.00 hours. Punctuality actions in the fight against terrorists. Perhaps this simple incident is symptomatic and significant for a somewhat spoiled continent. Western Europe has had 70 years of vacation from history. Peace and security are self-evident and free, we thought. Attacks and violent outbursts near European borders wake us up. But are we really over sleeping drunkenness or is our concern especially that of the whole Holland Bakt generation: as long as I have my apple pie ready? This will prove to be the case if the political parties adopt their defence paragraph in the electoral programme. Perhaps the most important paragraph for the forthcoming elections. Defense is exhausted and it will cost billions more to build a suitable, professional military force. The message that our outdated F-16s cannot be deployed in all circumstances over Syria was not so much staggering, but rather the fact that the House of Representatives were disheartened about it. Are they not aware of the state of our defence equipment? With a slipper and an old football shoe, you can't get very far into this violence spectrum. How is it possible that we have so neglected our defence, the core task of the government? Parliamentary surveys have been carried out on smaller issues. Can the Minister of Defence indicate what significant steps it is taking in the aftermath of this cabinet to stop deficits and gaps as much as possible and thus lay a foundation on which a new cabinet can build? Which building blocks is she going to supply for the formation table? Our defence expenditure is far below the NATO 2% standard. What mechanism is the Minister going to change this, in a way that is structural and not dependent on political lazyness? It hardly needs to be said that we cannot afford any more grievances. Putin's regime will do everything it can to maintain a tsarist system. This means internal continuing repression and foreign continuation of aggressive anti-Western policy. The former Soviet republics, in particular Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, will continue to undermine Putin politically and militarily in order to prevent and maintain NATO and EU accession. Despite the poor economy, the re-arming will continue. This is not consistent with the ongoing reductions in defence in NATO. Will NATO really take action if the Baltic States are under Russian foot? What is actually available to reverse such a threat? China continues to develop as new economic, political and military power. This leads to conflicts with the US, Japan and other countries in the region, over control of sea routes and islets with raw materials. What is our government doing to prevent a serious armed conflict and to ensure that countries like Taiwan are not intimidated away? Iran has gained more financial strength by lifting the sanctions of the international community to sponsor terrorist groups. There is now plenty of trade with Iran, but what pressure is being put to stop Iran from financing terror? With regard to North Africa and the Middle East, the unrest will continue through IS, Al-Qaeda and all kinds of warlords. ISIS certainly hasn't finished playing yet. The instability in that region will continue. This could threaten oil supplies and generate even more refugee flows. Against all these threats is an EU that hangs on the ropes. Uncertain about her identity, ambushed by the refugee problem and rightly distressed by the domination of radical Islam. Hundreds of people with Western passports are currently part of the IS army and can one day return home to start their personal jihad. By the way, when are Dutch soldiers going to be in uniform again? We can't give in to terrorists forever, can we? It's a bad signal when our swordpower dives away. There is no such ban in France or Belgium, and the threat level is certainly not lower there. I'll follow. A possible Brexit will further undermine Europeans' confidence in the EU. In this list, I also mention Turkey, which, under the leadership of Erdogan, is becoming increasingly radical. A bad partner for the EU and unsuitable for EU membership. I think that's the last thing Erdogan wants. Membership of the EU means that his sultan-like ambitions will become impossible and he will never accept that. In this sense, the biggest brush we can bake him is the direct offering of EU membership. But in all seriousness, let us stop with the comedy of possible accession. Europe stops where the church towers end. Turkey is an important NATO partner. That is why good relations are necessary, but why should this be done through EU membership, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Combating terrorist attacks is a top priority. Is this also the danger of nuclear terrorism? Isn't this an underexposed subject? In the shadow of the attacks in Belgium, a nuclear dimension was also hidden. It led to a sharp warning from the International Atomic Energy Agency (ILO). Nuclear terrorism poses a real threat, for example from IS. IS has many sympathizers in Arab countries. The nuclear material there is a logical target for them. How will this threat be countered? How can such weapons be prevented from falling into the wrong hands? President Obama placed this item high on his agenda years ago, particularly supported by Israel. But how will this go with his successor? Is the IAEA taking sufficient lead in this explosive file? Speaking of international security, I place my finger on the paralyzed peace process in the Middle East. Palestinian acts of terror are the order of the day in Israel. Glorifying violence against Jews fills Palestinian state television. The Palestinian Authority is still transferring large sums of money to convicted Palestinian terrorists. Abbas recently acknowledged in his conversation with the Norwegian Foreign Minister that the PA is now paying the salaries of terrorists through the PLO. The higher the penalty, the higher the bonus. There are terrorists who receive almost €3,000 each month; a capital in that region. It is insufferable and immoral that the Netherlands and the EU are paying for this on the left or right. Imagine, for example, that in the Netherlands convicted terrorists with Turkish nationality receive large sums of money from the Turkish government and that the EU provides enormous financial support to Turkey every year. Our country would rightly be too small. Why do other criteria apply to the Palestinian Authority? I call on the Minister to deduct €10 from the Dutch donor funds for every euro transferred to terrorists. Meanwhile, the Palestinians refuse to appear at the negotiating table with Israel, because they know that Israel is considered a scapegoat by the international community. They're counting on them getting what they want, even without direct negotiations. What concrete pressure is being put on the Palestinians to start direct negotiations with Israel? The Swiss parliament is going to investigate the government funding of anti-Israeli NGOs with targets that are obstructing official government policy. Will the Minister, like Switzerland, also carry out research to stop these harmful subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u4	I wanted to ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u5	You need to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u6	I would like to ask whether, in the view of Mr Van Dijk, the appointment of the extreme right-wing politician Lieberman as Minister of Defence, to the horror of his predecessor and the former Prime Minister of Israel, Barak, is a contribution to the launching of the peace process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u7	I do not think it is up to us to comment on the appointments of ministers to another government. We wouldn't want that to happen the other way around. I am reassured that Israel has a very vibrant democracy in this respect, with a very critical press, which passes left on the policies of Netanyahu MPs of D66 and other parties, so to speak. I would like to judge Israel by its policy. I do not take care of all Israel's policies, nor do I take care of every statement made by a minister. I want to look at the overall policy. I just said something about that. I conclude this block on Israel with a telling statement by Golda Meir, the first female Prime Minister of Israel. She said, "We can forgive the Arabs for killing our children. We can't forgive them for forcing us to kill their children. We will have peace in the Middle East only if the Arabs love their children more than they hate us." I'm closing my not very optimistic story. For politicians it is the art to face big problems honestly, but not to fall into doom stories. I am thinking of the writer Tomáš Halík. This Czech Catholic priest continued his pastoral work during the repressive communist regime. A crisis should not be avoided, but taken on board, he says. You are invited to believe that in that crisis, in the recognition of what is heavy and difficult, power from above, you receive from God. I wish that power from above, in particular, to our rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. This policy debate is about international security. This has to do with armed conflicts between and within states or with their threats, but it also has to do with the question of how to maintain peace through poverty reduction, fair distribution of wealth, political participation, sustainable development, respect for human rights, building and maintenance of the rule of law and good governance. That is, of course, a very broad approach to safety. It involves more than national security, no matter how important it is. It is also about safety for people, about human safety. This already indicates how much internal and external security are intertwined. This broad approach to security is the shared responsibility of national states, international organisations, civil society movements, the private sector and individual citizens. The PvdA wants all efforts to be directed towards the constant pursuit of that shared and human security in a truly turbulent world. This raises the question of what the role of Europe and the role of the Netherlands can be. This will also be the common thread in the five subjects which I will briefly address on behalf of my group. First of all, I would like to say something about the Turkey deal in a broad perspective. The security of the Syrian and Iraqi people is at enormous risk. In Syria, millions of people have been driven out of their homes; several hundred thousand have been killed. The prospects for a structural solution are far from clear. The flow of refugees from this war zone is still continuing. We continue to stand with the government for a generous reception policy here and in the region. The so-called Turkey deal is essential for reception in the region. We must not forget that Turkey has received nearly 3 million Syrians, Lebanon 1.2 million and Jordan nearly 1 million. They're the countries of first shelter. We can see that the arch is incredibly tense there. In addition to continuing humanitarian and financial assistance to Lebanon and Jordan, it remains important to recognise Turkey's crucial role and to focus cooperation on it. Of course, this must not be done at all costs, but my group welcomes the Turkey deal as an important condition for controlling the increasing flow of refugees and for achieving decent reception in Turkey with European aid. Of course, if, under the pretext of the refugee crisis or the fight against terrorism, Turkey is going to hunt down the Kurds and cut down on fundamental freedoms in Turkey, we must appeal to Turkey in particular in the Council of Europe, where Turkey is also party to the European Convention on Human Rights. However, the EU must not always come up with varying demands on Turkey either. It seems to the PvdA Group to be right to depoliticise the refugee issue. We ask the government to respond to this position. In addition, my group informs about the nature and the latest state of affairs of the Turkey deal. Is it, above all, a framework agreement on some 14 A4s between the European Union as a representative of the Member States and Turkey? To what extent are the Member States already bound by this? Or do certain steps still need to be taken to achieve this? And which ones are they? What is the Dutch position here? What would be the consequences for refugee reception and refugee policy, in the region and in Western Europe, if the Turkish deal were to go down unexpectedly? Compliance with the UN Refugee Convention is crucial here. Of course, the text of this treaty is somewhat outdated, but as with many treaties, in a dynamic evolutionary context, the application and interpretation are now based on the contemporary meaning. That doesn't include a word of French. These are people who, out of well-founded fear of their safety and life, eventually feel forced to leave their familiar surroundings. The Convention does not cover economic migrants. In addition, the UN Refugee Convention is a global treaty. The operation of the Convention is not limited to refugees from Europe. Does the government share these two principles? It is now five years since the Arab Spring sparked a spark of hope for freedom and democracy. But in a lot of Arab countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u9	Do I understand correctly that the PvdA Group believes that the Turkey deal is fully in line with the UN Refugee Treaty and that it is in no way sanding? Is that a good impression?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u10	There is a slight inconvenience in the sense that Turkey itself is not a full party to the UN Refugee Convention. However, in the practice of Turkish policy, it is largely applied. As you know, the Turkey deal includes 72 agreements between the EU and Turkey. This includes proper treatment of refugees. This will not always be done entirely according to the standards of the Procedural Directive applied in the European Union, but Turkey is not a member of the European Union and respects the spirit of the UN Refugee Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u11	Is Mr Schrijver aware that there are several reports about the treatment of returned Syrian refugees in Turkey, and that this is not always in line with the letter and spirit of the UN Refugee Convention? Does he know that there have also been Greek judges who have questioned the legal possibility of sending Syrian refugees back to Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u12	Yes. With you, we are well aware of this and we are concerned about it. That is why we want to exert as much influence as possible on Turkey. And we don't do that by isolating them, but by seeking cooperation. That is, miracle by miracle, laid down in the Turkey deal. Implementation has many problems, but we are in favour of solving these problems and not now reducing cooperation to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u13	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u14	One last question about this. Is Mr Schrijver, in the light of current political developments in Turkey, the relationship with the Kurds, the position of Kurdish MPs and Erdogan's reaction to certain elements of the Turkey deal, optimistic about the future cooperation with Turkey in the implementation of the Turkey deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u15	Thank you for your question. I'm not optimistic about that, but I'm realistic. If we do not seek cooperation with Turkey and try to exert our influence through cooperation between the EU and Turkey, through the Council of Europe and through other bodies, the situation will be worse. I'm going back to the Middle East. I said that in quite a few Arab countries, the Arab Spring has unfortunately degenerate into a fiery sea, such as in Libya, Yemen and Syria, or eventually one dictatorship has been redeemed by another, as in Egypt. Here is the bitter lesson that freedom and democracy can be better achieved along the path of graduality and must be firmly rooted in society in order to sustain it. Long-standing involvement of the international community, through development projects and strengthening the rule of law, can play an important role. This is a long-term issue, as experience in Afghanistan and Iraq, for example, teaches us. It raises the question of whether the free Western world can take that long, and it also shows the reduced development and defence efforts of a number of Western countries. What is the Dutch government's position on this? The root cause of the refugee problem is the hopelessness of shared peace and human security, particularly in Syria. How does the government see the peace talks unfold? The existence of the International Syria Support Group is a promising sign, but it does consist of a furious group of countries with very different interests. How does the government assess the role and relations between key players, such as Russia, the US, China and Iran? And how does it see the role of the EU in this, including that of High Representative Mogherini himself? Only a fully-fledged and comprehensive international peace strategy for Syria can bring relief in the long term. To what extent is this already negotiable? Or is all the attention claimed by the urgency of everyday life about achieving a ceasefire, the delivery of humanitarian aid and a dialogue between the Syrian parties? And to the extent that it is already possible to talk about post-war peace-building, how could it best be organised? The United Nations, including UNICEF and UNDP, and its specialised organisations such as World Bank, FAO and WHO are likely to play a crucial role in this. Are Member States, including the Netherlands, preparing these organisations for such a role? We have already held extensive written consultations with the government on the legal basis for military action in Iraq and Syria following the Article 100 letters. Bearing in mind the role of the First Chamber, we have focused this consultation on the underlying legal framework. My group thanks the government for the detailed answer. It is clear that there is a special patchwork of legal bases, which partly overlap. Iraq's right to self-defense plays an important role in this and extends to Syria's territory, where the ISIS command centres in Syria and the supply lines of combat units and ammunition from Eastern Syria threaten Iraq. At the same time, we also see that the Assad regime has invoked the aid of Russia and Iran on the basis of the Syrian right to self-defense. In turn, Turkey also calls for the right to self-defense to oppose armed attacks from Syria's territory; unfortunately, the difficult Kurdish issue is a poisonous issue; we have already talked about it. We are not going to repeat that detailed written consultation here orally. My group does, however, have some additional questions. These questions relate essentially to the question of how the right to self-defense, ultimately a form of self-direction, can be found in the UN's collective security trail. For example, my group had requested an appreciation from the government of the additional, possible legitimising value that could be derived from paragraph 5 of Security Council Resolution 2249 of 20 November 2015, which was unanimously adopted after the attacks in Paris. It has not been translated into the standard language required by the Security Council for an international mandate for the use of force, but it is moving in that direction. Can this resolution, together with others, including the important resolution 2254 dealing with an integral peace package for Syria, be seen as an opportunity, perhaps just a straw, to come from the trail of collective self-defense of Iraq, the current legal basis for Dutch military action, in our view much better track of collective security within the framework of the UN? This requires cooperation, including with Russia, Iran and China. We are happy to give the government an opportunity to reply to this. I also ask the Minister of Defence to update on the military deployment of our F-16s in Syria. Mr Van Dijk already referred to the fact that the precision of our F-16s was initially greatly praised, which was the basis of the request from the French and Americans to the Netherlands to extend our aerial bombings to Syria, while we later received reports that this was largely absent because the communication equipment was not sufficiently set up. The key question is, of course, whether the actions against ISIS are effective. Or is it the bitter lesson that a harnessed armed group such as ISIS and a fanatical ideology about a caliphate to be founded will not be bombed out of the sky? My question to the government is whether we do not actually walk around with our hands tied on our backs because, ultimately, only a comprehensive peace strategy, with its military components air bombardments and ground forces, and fully embedded in that peace strategy, and not in parallel with that, has at best any chance of success? Even closer to home is the conflict area in Ukraine. Fortunately, part of the ceasefire on the basis of Minsk II appears to be sustained. In doing so, the OSCE Peace Monitors, approximately 1000 staff, play an unarmed role as an important observer. In our previous debate in 2015, the Upper House adopted by a large majority a PvdA motion to improve the legal status of the OSCE. We are pleased that the government, after initially a rather harsh response in December, in January 2016 discussed this motion in detail. We are deeply aware of the contradictions, particularly between Russia and the United States, but the OSCE is an organisation of 57 Member States and even more so than the others, in order not to allow Europe to be held hostage by the East-West conflict. We now know that the German Presidency will also give priority to this issue. Can the government give us an update in this debate on the state of play and also on the Dutch commitment to it? When we talk about Ukraine, of course, I also come to the Dutch response to the outcome of the referendum. I believe that all of us are genuinely concerned about the contribution that Europe can make to peace, social progress, the rule of law and democracy in Ukraine. Our view that the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement is an important instrument in this regard has not changed since we had an exchange of views with the government on this matter on 7 July 2015 and voted in favour of the Act of Approval. Unlike both chambers, a clear majority of the participants in the consultative referendum voted against it. We think it is sensible that the government, on the basis of this statement, should not be able to proceed 'to ratification'. We would like to hear from the government how consultations with the European partners and the European Commission are going on on this issue. At what time does the government intend to take decisions? At some point in time, the government will have to give in, now that the ratification procedures have been completed in our country after all the treaty partners. In my group's view, there are various legal methods to ensure that the result of the referendum is properly taken into account. The most obvious method is to make reservations in some parts of the agreement. For example, the Netherlands may declare that it is expressly not bound by specific Treaty provisions. The Association Agreement itself does not prohibit this and, under the general law of the Treaties, it is possible to make a reservation, provided that it does not conflict with the purpose and scope of the Convention. A less far-reaching method is to make interpretative statements on how the Netherlands understands certain treaty articles as a contracting party. My question to the government is how it stands here. Of course, the most far-reaching method is, of course, repealing the ratification law. My group is not in favour of this, given the great interests of shared peace, stability and the building of the rule of law and democracy at stake here for Ukraine and Europe. Moreover, we do not need Putin to laugh in his face. We are awaiting the publication of the new European Security Strategy of the EU High Representative Federica Mogherini.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u16	Mr Schrijver says that his group is not in favour of non-ratification of the Ukraine Treaty. His colleagues in the House of Representatives said that they wanted to respect and take over the result of the referendum. Does this mean that the PvdA Group in the First Chamber feels differently than the PvdA Group in the Second Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u17	Thank you for your question. Of course, it is always interesting to speculate on that. As I have just said, I would also like to do my utmost to respect the outcome of the referendum. This does not necessarily have to be done by repealing the ratification law. I know this is your view. You put it out last July. It is only consistent that you are probably advocating this again now. There are only other methods. I drew attention to this, bearing in mind that this is an advisory referendum and also taking into account that both Houses of Parliament voted in favour and that 29 of the 30 Contracting Parties, the European Union and Ukraine, have also gone through the ratification process. So it's not that simple, not so black and white; yes or no. You can also follow other methods to achieve the same goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr Schrijver's answer contains many well-known facts. My question was not speculative at all. The Group of the Party of European Socialists in the House of Representatives has said quite clearly: we want the result not only to be respected, but also to be taken over. The result of the referendum was black and white in terms of: do you want a yes or do you want a no? It wasn't: do you want it to be a little different, do you want us to make some adjustments, do you want us to take some more detours? It was: do you want yes or do you want no? The Dutch people have said: we want no. The Labour Party on the other side has said that we will accept that. My question now was: do you think differently from your colleagues in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u19	The answer is no, because you are assuming an incorrect assumption. I remember that the Labour Party, by a majority in Parliament, did not vote in favour of repealing the ratification law, but asked the government to adopt a position before the summer. I have perhaps argued this in a slightly different way today. I have been so helpful in providing the government with two very important methods, in the spirit of our position, and I ask for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u20	That's clear to me. I am not referring to what the Labour Party said after the people spoke out. Before the people spoke, the Labour Party in the House of Representatives said that we will respect and take over the result. I note that this clear position is being pushed away at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u21	I think we have a clear position. If Mr Koffeman has any questions about the position of the House of Representatives, I must refer him to the other side. We had an interparliamentary conference on the common foreign and defence policy in the Knight's Room in April. There we talked about enhanced EU defence cooperation, in parallel with cooperation within NATO and the Benelux countries, and German-Dutch cooperation. I refer the government to paragraph 5 of the final document, among other things. What is the government's view of the future of defence cooperation within the EU and what is its commitment to this in drawing up the new European security agenda? In this respect, I agree with Mr Knapen's very pertinent questions. How far should the need for an integrated European policy coordinated by the High Representative go? Finally, a word about the role of the Netherlands in the United Nations. My group welcomes the continued Dutch contributions to various multilateral UN peacekeeping operations, particularly those in Mali. This too is strongly linked to the shared and human security strategy that I advocated at the beginning of my speech. This also concerns full security, and that is why we welcome the conclusion of the remigration agreements with three countries in West Africa; all the compliments to the Foreign Minister for his key role on behalf of the EU. Anyone who walks into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will see at a clock how many days the campaign for a Dutch seat in the UN Security Council for the years 2017-2018 can last; now only 28. It is incredibly exciting and we wish the government every success. We have high expectations for an inspiring interpretation of the Netherlands' membership of the Security Council, and we ourselves have many ideas for this in Parliament. In the case of elections with the government, we would like to consult on the Dutch commitment to the Security Council in good time. Is the government prepared to do so? The election of a new Secretary-General of the United Nations is also imminent; sometimes described as the most impossible job in the world, sometimes as the most important. The election of a new Secretary-General usually takes place in a great shadowiness and in a kind of joke between the permanent members. We are charmed by the citizens' initiative 1 for 7 Billion, a person on behalf of seven billion, a campaign co-led by the Dutch Yvonne Terlingen from New York. Does the Netherlands support the call for greater transparency? Will the Netherlands support the campaign 1 for 7 Billion, including supported by the Interparliamentary Union? This campaign is aimed at the qualifications of the candidate rather than at his or her regional origin, I hope? Mr President, we await with interest the Government's replies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. The world is plagued by terrorist attacks. From 11 September 2001 alone, 10,000 terrorist attacks have been committed, hundreds of thousands killed and injured, all driven by what some call the religion of peace. I'm talking about the conquest ideology of Islam. Islam is gaining in influence. One of the driving forces behind this is the Muslim Brotherhood, founded in Egypt in 1928. This international organization has branches to, among others, Hamas, Al Fatah, Al Qaeda, IS, Milli Görüs and the Taliban. The AKP of the Head of State Erdogan, who is close to the EU, is also associated with the Muslim Brotherhood. The Muslim Brotherhood has also been infiltrated in the Netherlands. This brotherhood presents itself as moderate, but is in the core hard. The fact that it's bloody serious to the brothers can be seen from their strategy called "the project." Through "the project" the Muslim Brotherhood wants to subject the West through propaganda, sermons and if necessary war. To do this, one wants to infiltrate, build separate social networks, establish autonomous security services, highlight the jihad duty of Muslims, exert influence on the media, support jihadist movements and fuel the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. All visible cooperation with terrorist organisations is carefully avoided, so that the fraternity can emerge as a bridge builder between different cultures and position itself as an Islamic interlocutor for governments and international organisations. It therefore does not hesitate to abuse democracy in order to achieve its objective. Thus, the brainchild of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), could be realized. This organisation has great influence within the United Nations, where it can roll out its project to its heart's content, part of which is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Terrorist cells in Palestinian territories are deliberately fed. There is no hesitation in linking terrorist activities in the Palestinian territories with global terrorism. All this to drive a wedge between Israel and the West, with the aim of the elimination of Israel and the conquest of the West. Meanwhile, our borders are wide open. Millions of economic refugees rattle at the gates of Europe. This enormous uncontrolled flow of migrants not only disrupts western society financially and socially, but also has terrorists in its wake. They aim to create as much chaos as possible in the free West. They are covered in azc's where they start their terrorist activities: harassing and mistreating Christians, homosexuals and other weaker ones. In the German azc's it's all fur. These azc's are often under the control of Arab security guards who often look the other way in violence against and discrimination against Christians. Also in the Netherlands people in azc's, who do not fit in with the Islamic picture, are terrorized. Instead of the immediate expulsion of these terrorists, a motion is passed in the Lower House asking the government to provide separate, safe shelter for lhbt's, Christians and other vulnerable individuals. That's the world upside down. After completing or disappearing from the asylum procedure in illegality, migrants often join the various existing migrant enclaves, where the political elite provide them with benefits and subsidies, with the vague hope of integration. These enclaves develop into a base of Islamic terror, where attacks are planned and terrorists are hidden. This became painfully clear in the Brussels district of Molenbeek. Even in France there are hundreds of these enclaves, where the authorities have hardly any authority. If we want to know how this will develop in the near future, all we have to do is look at Israel. We are going to have Palestinian situations here. Islamic terrorism is facilitated by the government. I will give you a practical example, not from the big city, but from the countryside. In the Achterhoek, Moroccan sheikh El Mokadmi has free rein to rule the salafistic masdrassa Al Islah, where Sharia law rules. Children live in boarding school to a high degree of isolation, without any kind of supervision by the Dutch government. This is made possible and co-financed by taxpayers' money. For example, parents can apply for double child benefit to indoctrinate their child on this madrassa and these children can transfer with Dutch funding to the Al-Azhar University in Cairo, which is linked to the Muslim Brotherhood. El-Mokadmi himself has lived and studied for many years at similar madrassas associated with the extreme Deobandi school, which is part of Salafism. He also studied at Al-Azhar University in Cairo. What El-Mokadmi has learned over the years in such institutions is today being rolled out on his behalf and put into practice in the Gelderse Achterhoek. By using beautiful words, such as integration, respect and transparency, the government allows itself to be deceived and even gives off an anbi-status for the Al Islah foundation, as well as for the Al Mahad El Islami foundation which is located at the same address and probably the funder of the whole. This anbi-status gives both foundations tax advantages. This is subject to conditions. It is established that these foundations do not comply. Although the Tax Administration has been aware of this since January 2015, this has not led to any measure. It may be that the service is too busy with the Panama Papers, but it is certain that there is no mortgage on the building in which the madrassa is located, while a loan is repaid. Apparently, the Madrassa is financed by third parties. The madrassa was bought at the time for €915,000. Where that money came from is a complete mystery. Who these third parties are is not known, partly because the foundation does not fulfil its obligation to provide financial accountability. It is certain that El-mokadmi moves in circles of the Muslim Brotherhood and he is also one of the top men within Tablighi Jama'at, a movement based on the Salafist Deobandi School. The goal of Tablighi Jama'at is to re-islamize the Muslim minorities in the now free West. It preaches extreme apartheid of Western society and promotes apartheid, which is entirely in line with the Muslim Brotherhood. It is not for nothing that the AIVD warns that Tablighi Jama'at can act as a breeding ground for radicalisation of Muslims. If one looks at the previously described entanglement in the light of the Al Isla foundation's goal to train and deliver as many imams as possible, then it is waiting for the moment that Islamized neighborhoods in the large western cities are ruled in line with the Sharia. Already there are Sharia courts in the UK. I have just described one example: the madrassa Al Islah. Meanwhile, hundreds of Islamic organisations have been and are being established in the Netherlands, often subsidised with tax money. Usually such an organization starts as a cultural foundation, which grows into a mosque. Around the mosque there is an Islamic community that increasingly puts its Islamic stamp on the neighborhood. Autochtones move away, neighborhood fathers replace the police, and the azan flies through the neighborhood. This is how the enclave is formed: a Gaza Strip in the making. While the Molenbeek enclave in Brussels is already under the control of the Salafists, Ministers Asscher of Social Affairs and Van der Steur of Security and Justice shamelessly state that there is no ban on Salafist organizations. The current legislation would be sufficient to combat excesses. However, there is hardly any enforcement. We're just gonna let it all go. Both ministers write in a letter to the Chamber that they do not prohibit religion, ideology or thought, because individual freedom is the basis of our rule of law. A ban would have to be imposed on this. This is incredibly naive. Both ministers completely ignore the fact that there is no question of individual freedom within Islam. Tolerance for intolerants can be lethal. For example, by giving the madrassas and the sheik a job in the Netherlands, our rule of law and our freedom are being demolished from within, while the government has the task of protecting our rule of law. The government must make a choice: either it protects the rule of law or it protects Islam. What does the government choose? We must also seriously ask ourselves whether we should train and allow people of dual nationality within the Defence, the police and the security services to work. I have already set the example of the Arab security forces in the German azc's who often turn a blind eye when Christians are terrorized. In addition, the practice shows that the king of Morocco and the sultan of Turkey continue shamelessly to exert their influence on their nationals in the Netherlands. If a columnist is already arrested in Turkey because of an insult to the head of state, how should we deal with an armed conflict in the Middle East? The question to Ministers is whether they consider dual nationality desirable within the army, the police and the security services. Are there any known cases in the Dutch army that, as a result of ITAR, International Traffic In Arms Regulations, employees of Defence with a dual nationality are subject to restrictions, which are not imposed on Defence personnel of only Dutch nationality? We're being threatened on two fronts. We are threatened at the external borders. Both at national and European level, they are as leaky as a basket. Millions of migrants on European borders are fighting for Europe. Muhammad's warriors travel uncontrolledly to the European, islamized neighborhoods, where they are received by their fellow believers and where they find accomplices for their enclave war. To the extent of disaster, this cabinet makes an insane deal with the Turks, allowing 80 million Turks to be welcomed visa-free. All these people will bring even more Islam. Migration is part of the jihad. How many migrants is the Dutch minister going to ship with? What's to happen before he finally sees that giant elephant standing? All this could have been avoided. But what are the ministers of the Netherlands doing? One runs chic at Brussels cocktail parties and the other writes nice press releases. Nothing else will happen. That's where the second threat lies. If you don't believe me because I'm a PVV man, ask the mayor of Ede, a CDA man. He no longer asks for help from his own government, but uses direct help from the clan representatives of the fifth column, the Moroccan consul. Citizens are not only threatened by terrorists who attack them and scare them. The nasty government that has to protect them but selectively enforces laws and regulations completes a nightmare. While the citizens have given the mandate to the political administration in confidence, they are being horribly abandoned and left to their fate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group is pleased that we can still have this debate on national and international security today. At a time when many, not far from here, are affected by war and when we are faced with acts of terrorism within the borders of the EU, a policy debate on the causes of insecurity and strategies to reduce insecurity is not a luxury. Security is a basic requirement and international security is, of course, also a priority for the SP Group. The question is how we can contribute to a solution rather than become part of the problem. Safety rarely comes from the barrel of a rifle. Often the use of force only leads to more violence and does not provide a solution to war. Earlier this year and at the end of last year, Brussels and Paris, and thus all of Europe, have been hit by nothing sobering attacks. The SP Group abhors all forms of terror. Whether the dead fall in Brussels or Beirut, Ankara or Aleppo. When certain violent events undermine our sense of security, many politicians from right to left express the feeling that we should do something, and that "something" is not uncommon in the military sphere. This ignores the fact that with non-military means, first and foremost diplomacy, there is often more to be achieved. Even when these resources are temporarily exhausted, military intervention often only makes things worse, while increasing arms and military force does not contribute to greater security, but rather deepens the so-called security dilemma, which ultimately increases insecurity for everyone. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, there is no more money going to the Defense Department. Especially not to any more weapons we don't need. Please, let us not buy new submarines for 2.5 billion, and probably even more, as the Minister intends. Perhaps the Minister could explain again why this would be a useful and responsible expenditure. And when will these nuclear weapons finally leave our country? As far as we are concerned, all nuclear weapons go out of the world, starting from the Netherlands, but a commitment to the so-called 'no first use' principle would also be a step in the right direction. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously promised to commit itself to this. This commitment would be fulfilled in the course of 2015, but before the summer, the Minister informed us that the "no first use" principle is part of a discussion on NATO's nuclear doctrine and that it is not currently being discussed there. For the Minister, that seems to be the end of the story. We find that a curious reasoning. Since it is not currently on the agenda for NATO, the same goes for the Netherlands. Was the commitment not correct that the Netherlands would make an effort to get this on NATO's agenda? I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees this. Mr President, security is more and must be more than military security alone. Security is a broad concept, but ultimately it is about human security, human security, and Mr Schrijver has already spoken about it, not about the security of states or regimes. In this broad concept of security, the right to a dignified existence is the basis. The importance of development cooperation must also be taken into account in this context, but in the absence of the Minister for Development Cooperation, I will not go into this further. From that broader security perspective, climate change should perhaps be considered one of our greatest security risks, but there are other opportunities for that debate. In my group's view, the idea of collective security, and hence the ban on violence, as laid down in the United Nations Charter, must be a guiding principle in the movement between states. Does the Foreign Minister agree with the SP Group? For the Netherlands in particular, bearing in mind the constitutional requirement that the international legal order should be promoted, compliance with international law and diplomacy should be paramount. I now come to the two most important parts of my contribution: on the one hand, the war against ISIS against the background of the Middle East as a conflict area, and on the other hand, the relationship with Russia and the European security architecture. First of all, the war against ISIS. Almost the entire Middle East seems like a war zone and the Netherlands has unfortunately also become a war party since autumn 2014, with since this year an extension to Syria, all the good arguments not to do so that we have heard from one of the two coalition parties in spite of. The SP advocates bread for Syria and not more bombs on Syria. We also have great doubts about the international mandate and the government's reasoning in this matter. Mr Schrijver also spoke about it, in a slightly different context. Does the statement that military action against non-state actors also fall within the scope of collective self-defense in this case mean that Iraq's defence, and that this is also permitted without the consent of the country concerned, not dangerously extend the interpretation of Article 51 of the Charter? Does this mean that Turkey or Saudi Arabia could also intervene on the same grounds, for example with ground troops in Syria? We had already asked written questions about this, but perhaps the Minister could answer this question again with a clear yes or no. The Dutch actions should not benefit Assad and therefore we should limit our attacks to Eastern Syria, where the regime is hardly present. Does the government not agree with the SP Group that it is ultimately a 'war theatre' and that military actions in the east have indirect consequences in the west and therefore on the overall military balance between the warring parties? In other words, will the Assad regime not inevitably benefit from our actions against ISIS? Mr President, bombs in Iraq have not yet brought a solution to the sectarian conflict between Sunnis and Shiites, quite the contrary. Nor do bombs in Syria bring lasting peace in Syria any closer. However difficult, only a diplomatic and political solution will bring peace. Bombs do not bring peace, but cause death and destruction, or in the words of the cabinet itself: "In general, the military deployment of any party makes humanitarian access more difficult, causes more displaced persons and refugees and carries the risk of civilian casualties." The independent Airwars website estimates that at least 1,207 civilians have been killed by the coalition bombings since the beginning. This therefore excludes the even higher number of civilian deaths where Russia is held responsible. Are the Ministers aware of these figures? If so, how would the Ministers assess these figures in relation to the objectives of this war? Is this acceptable collateral damage? An earlier letter to this Chamber refers to an investigation into two possible civilian casualties caused by the Netherlands. Are the results of this study already known, and can the Ministers at all give us any more information on what is known as collateral damage caused by the Netherlands? In the meantime, humanitarian needs have also increased, with particularly poignant situations in, for example, Fallujah in Iraq, where the attack against ISIS has now been launched, or in Darayya near Damascus. We are pleased that the cabinet has carried out the motion of Van Bommel c.s. in the Lower House, in which government is asked to make efforts to increase humanitarian access to areas that are difficult to access. We would like to hear from the cabinet the most up-to-date situation with regard to this. In this light, the question arises as to the success of the military fight against ISIS. Militaryly speaking, there is success in Islamic State losing ground, although the Cabinet continues to stress that it will be a battle of years. But what does reducing ISIS actually mean on the ground? Who or what fills the power vacuum that arises when ISIS loses control of a place? In Syria, the area in question may simply fall back into the hands of the Assad regime, as in the case of Palmyra. For many Syrians that is a "from the rain in the drop" story. From the perspective of the Dutch Government, this can hardly be described as progress. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. In the case of Iraq, we seem to be particularly concerned about the fact that when ISIS withdraws, the area in question will fall back into complete anarchy, from which new extremist groups will emerge, especially groups that will establish themselves through extreme terror as the vanguard of the still disadvantaged Sunnis. What are the Ministers' views on this situation? Do the ministers agree with the SP Group that there is at least the risk that defeating ISIS in certain places will not have to produce a better situation at all? And so we continue with this seemingly hopeless cycle of violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u24	I would like to ask a question about the circumstances in which the SP Group considers military engagement in the fight against ISIS to be sensible. In other words, does the SP Group believe that the fight against ISIS can be won simply by non-military methods? Should we, if the latter is the case, put another "P" in front of the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u25	I thank Mr Schrijver for his question. The SP is not against the use of force in all circumstances. We have said before that we should support it in certain circumstances, for example when it comes to the appallment of people in Iraq who were threatened by genocide, such as the Jezidis. In a specific case, I believe we have also supported this. The SP is not a pacifist party, but the SP is convinced that you should always look closely at what the use of violence actually does. If the use of force, in this case bombing, worsens things rather than improves them, that is not a good thing for us. The other question that Mr Schrijver asked is whether the SP Group is convinced that we can defeat Islamic State with only non-military means. The answer to that is that it will be very difficult to defeat Islamic State in the short term. It is clear, however, that the military commitment of the coalition is not bringing the solution any closer at the moment. Although ISIS has lost 40% of its territory, ISIS is still far from being defeated. The problem is partly spreading, ISIS is moving to Libya, the so-called waterbed effect, and the root causes of terrorism as ideology and movement are not being addressed. The solution to the root causes of the political problems in Iraq and Syria is not being brought any closer. In other words, we will have to focus on diplomatic and political means and also on tackling the funding of ISIS, which is more than we have been able to achieve up to now, for example through Turkey. At present, however, bombs are not the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u26	I am pleased to note that I can go a long way with Mr Van Apeldoorn, except that I believe that the use of military resources must necessarily be part of the strategy to reduce ISIS. I share his concern that it is going far too slowly and that it has so far achieved less than everyone would like, but I would like to distance myself from his view that we are actually moving further away from home in the search for peace through the use of military means. In short, it causes more harm than it does right. Is that ultimately Mr Van Apeldoorn's statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u27	In reply to Mr Schrijver, I would like to say that this is indeed our position. These bombs on Syria only deepen the breeding ground for terrorism. There is an increase in the risk of attacks here, as we have already seen. The movement and ideology behind terrorism will not be reduced. ISIS may be reduced, ISIS fighters will be killed and they have also been killed. But if you look at what is actually happening on the ground in Syria and Iraq, you can see that ISIS is losing ground, but that the troops of Assad in Syria, new anarchy and new extremist groups are replacing that. This situation will only lead to more instability rather than more stability. In our view, Syria urgently needs humanitarian aid and our support in the political process. I would like to ask Mr Schrijver how the PvdA sees it, because our arguments are actually the same as those of the PvdA. Only if a number of conditions are met can action be taken in Syria which could be conceivable. For example, there is a prospect of a political solution, but there is no such solution. For example, we are able to prevent Assad from becoming the laughing third and he does not benefit indirectly from these actions, which is the case at the moment, and we do not have the situation that Russia and Turkey are simultaneously acting in a way that only contributes to the escalation of the conflict: Turkey attacking Syrian Kurds and Russia attacking the moderate opposition. The Netherlands should not want to move in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u28	This is where we really disagree. I believe that military resources should not be used alongside a peace strategy, but should be embedded in a comprehensive peace strategy. I don't think we can spare a military component in that. I've gone a long way in saying you won't make it with just aerial bombing. Sooner or later the deployment of ground troops will also be necessary, hopefully under the flag of the United Nations. I am afraid that the consequence of Mr Van Apeldoorn's view is now to withdraw it, let it happen in the area and see what comes out of it, and that it will eventually result in the establishment of a truly Islamic State, a caliphate. Especially for the people there, but also in the broader sense of shared and human security there, but also in the rest of the world, we must not let it get that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u29	It is clear that the groups of the PvdA and the SP have a different view on this. I would just like to say: let us learn from the past! Part of my text, which I will be making later, is also about this. Al-Qaeda was also said: we must not shy away from military resources, and we must follow a military strategy. This has happened in Afghanistan and Pakistan, but also in Iraq, where Al-Qaeda was only given foothold after the invasion and occupation by the US and the Coalition of the Willing. As many analysts have said, IS is actually Al-Qaeda's successor, but even worse. We couldn't imagine that, but we did. There are also plenty of experts and analysts who warn that once ISIS is defeated, there will be a son of ISIS who may be worse and more extreme than ISIS. Time and again it turns out that this works as a self-fulfilling prophecy and as a boomerang returning to our face.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u30	I listened with interest to Mr Van Apeldoorn's speech. It strikes me that we often disagree on the analysis not so much, but on the solution. The statement that military power never solved anything is simply not true. Read a history book, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u31	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u32	No, but that's what I'm saying. The other thing that always surprises me is that it's said that it doesn't solve anything. First of all, we don't know what would have happened if we hadn't done anything. Secondly, crime has exactly the same dilemma. We'll never win the war on crime. But that doesn't mean we're abolishing the judges and shutting down the police. Nor will we be able to win the war against terrorism and terrorist organisations in the classical military sense. There will never be a day when they raise the flag and sign a peace treaty. But you can't afford to lose it. That's the point. You can't win it in the classic military sense, but you can't afford to lose it either. That is why I compare it with the fight against crime. You shouldn't have the illusion that you win this, but you have to accept that we can't afford to lose it. That means a constant and constant effort. Of course, ISIS will mutate like a virus and there will be something else, but that doesn't mean we have to throw the towel in the ring and say: it won't solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u33	I would like to thank Mr Van Kappen for this question. I honestly believe that the comparison with the fight against crime is flawed, for two reasons. Firstly, we are not fighting terrorism as we are fighting crime, namely with the use of police and justice. As far as I am concerned, some of that would be appropriate. Secondly, I think that the comparison is flawed because crime is motivated by other motives. Terrorism, no matter how horrible the forms of expression and how much we condemn it, also has complex social, economic and political causes, including the role of the international community and the role of the West. In the end, terrorism is the use of unsavory violence against citizens to create fear, but with a political aim. It is indeed possible to combat terrorism at some point by ensuring that the political issue is resolved. We have seen this in many other contexts, however different these contexts were. We have seen this, for example, with terrorism in Northern Ireland. In the end, there is also a political issue at the heart of it. Terror and terrorism are not natural phenomena. It is a phenomenon that is expressed when people choose to conduct politics in this way for different reasons. They often do so either from hopelessness or from a certain belief, ideology or religion. All kinds of motives can play a role. But the political background is also important. That's a big difference from crime. In the end, there is a political issue at the heart of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u34	Every comparison is limp. I made the comparison to show that the fight against terrorism never ends. It's always been there and you have to realize that you can never win in the classic sense. It's an effort that you're going to have to persevere all the time. It is of course the case that there are political reasons for this. It is also the case that you have to negotiate politically in the first place. However, I very much agree with Mr Schrijver that you need to have an overall strategy, including a political effort. But those military resources are really needed. Trust me on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u35	Mr Van Kappen can deliver it convincingly and he speaks with authority, but I am honestly not convinced. If you assume that terrorism will always exist and that we will always have to fight it, I fear that you will end up in a cycle of hopeless violence, becoming a self-filling prophecy every time. Groups are turning against us, we are fighting these groups, the growth of these groups is getting even stronger, ideology is being strengthened and the breeding ground is being deepened. You get a cycle of violence and terror, which is very difficult to break. I would also point out that ISIS, which is now being placed as a major threat to Europe, initially focused only on the region of Syria and Iraq, with, of course, very negative consequences for the region. It did not pose a direct threat to the West at that time. It was not, according to President Obama, planning attacks on American or European soil. The terrorist threat to Europe did not arise until the Americans, and in their wake also the Dutch, decided to bomb ISIS in Iraq. The same story can be kept for the way terrorism developed after 9/11, also in response to what is happening in Afghanistan. I would also mention the US drone attacks in Northwest Pakistan. There is a pattern of action and reaction that we must not deny. Looking away from that would be problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u36	Here too, we are partly in agreement on the analysis, but absolutely not on the solution. I think ISIS is indeed a threat to the West. That's what they say: the next target is Rome. Read their writings. Apart from that, I am glad that you at least gave me some of the right information, because you said that you did not completely exclude the use of military resources. That reassures me, because like Mr Schrijver, I had the feeling that the SP had suddenly changed into the PSP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u37	I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn on a number of points, but I was surprised to see him postulate so positively that, if we can meet the socio-economic and political aspirations and opportunities that exist in an area, this kind of terrorism escapes its roots. Does Mr Van Apeldoorn really have the illusion that in an area where there are so many different beliefs and ideologies, which collide and which have terribly different starting points, we can ever meet them to the extent that there is no basis for this type of terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u38	I thank Mr Ten Hoeve and the others for all the interruptions. That gives me the opportunity to say more. However, I would point out that some of your questions will find an answer in the rest of my text. In reply to your question, I would simply like to say: no, you are right, we cannot solve all these complex socio-economic and political problems and not just eliminate the causes. What we can do is look at our own role and try not to make it worse. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to continue with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u39	There are two members who would like to interrupt you. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u40	About ISIS and Europe: it is true that things started in Syria and Iraq, but that was greatly underestimated by the West at the time. At the end of 2013, early 2014, isolated small attacks have already started. I quote the International New York Times: "For ISIS Europe has been long a target." In other words, from three to four years ago, according to that article, it was heavily underestimated and there were already sporadic attacks. So it is not true that Europe was not a target, and I am afraid it will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u41	In the 1990s, Al Qaeda committed an attack on the USS Cole Navy ship. Then there was an attack on the American Embassy in Kenya. Clinton did nothing then, but then we got 9/11. Then how do you explain your statement "if we respond, they will come"? We did not respond, but 9/11 came after it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u42	Your presentation of history, namely that Clinton has done nothing, is a bit too simple. Of course, I'm familiar with history. Under Clinton there was an attack on USS Cole, there was an attack in Nairobi in eastern Africa and one in Saudi Arabia. Clinton did indeed respond to that militaryly. He had attacks carried out at a training camp in Afghanistan and at an alleged chemical plant in South Sudan, which turned out to be a pharmaceutical plant. Thousands of bombing flights were carried out by the United States and the United Kingdom on Iraq under Clinton, after the first Iraq war. A sanction regime has been established against Iraq, which has hit the Iraqi people very hard. According to independent experts, including from the UN, between 500 000 and 1 million people, especially children, have fallen victim and died. It is not that Clinton has done nothing or that there has not been a particular policy. 9/11 of course also had a whole history. I believe that many people in this Chamber can agree that we cannot simply eliminate the causes of terrorism, but we can certainly choose with our policy choices whether we are contributing to a solution or making the problem worse. The Iraq war that took place after 9/11 has definitely made the problem of international terrorism worse. It has taken us far beyond home and taken us far beyond a solution, even in the Middle East and bringing peace and stability to that region, which has been plagued by violence for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u43	I would like to point out to Mr Van Apeldoorn that there have been 3,000 innocent civilian casualties in 9/11. Those attacks weren't aimed at military targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u44	I agree with that remark. That's a fact. Those were terrible attacks. I didn't hear another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u46	Mr Schrijver can get his text back. I see it's back on schedule. He'll be able to read along. I'm back on the page I did. I think one got stuck in the printer. So we continue with this seemingly hopeless cycle of violence, unless we realize that you cannot defeat terrorism with bombs. Terrorism comes from an ideology and a movement that will continue until the breeding ground for it has been removed. As any terrorist expert knows, this breeding ground will only become deeper with more bombs. The causes of terrorism may be complex, but we must recognise our own role in this. Do not do that, just now that terror has reached Europe and neighbouring Belgium too, would have been turned away. Of course, after all the interruptions, I say this with great emphasis, the roots lie partly in the region itself. For example, sectarianism in many countries and the lack of balanced economic development are considered. The authoritarian nature of most of the regimes in the Middle East, which smothers the desire for more democracy, also contributes to the cycle of violence and terror. I have just indicated that our ability to solve all these problems in the Middle East is, of course, limited. That is precisely why it is right to look at what we can and should not do in order to prevent worse. To begin with, most Western countries, including the Netherlands, are still shocked by a truly critical attitude towards, for example, the reprehensible regime of Saudi Arabia, where human rights have almost as little value as in IS-controlled areas, and Yemen, with American bombs, is in a terrible war. The SP Group also deeply regrets that, in line with a European Parliament resolution, the government has not yet agreed to a full arms embargo on Saudi Arabia. I haven't heard a valid argument for that so far, but I may have missed something. I like to hear it. With regard to the conflict between Israel and Palestine, the West, as well as the Netherlands, has measured by double standards for far too long. The question is whether this cabinet is taking a balanced approach. As far as the SP Group is concerned, the most pressing current political question is when will this cabinet finally consider it appropriate to recognise a Palestinian state? The mantra from the cabinet is and remains that one wants to proceed with recognition at a strategic time, but that time has not yet come. Then, in response to various questions from this Chamber, the cabinet refuses to clarify what could possibly be considered a strategic moment. For the time being, therefore, this is a matter of 'until the end of the day'. If you don't have an idea in advance of what such a strategic moment might look like, you could miss it so much. How does the Minister assess the new French negotiating initiative in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u47	Mr Van Apeldoorn has questions to the Ministers about an independent Palestinian state, but the question is whether the Arab world wants a Palestinian state. We have had a chance to have a Palestinian state many times, but they do not want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u48	I don't know what "fifty times" is referred to here. In 1948, when the State of Israel was founded, the Palestinians did indeed have a chance to have their own state. That was, of course, a state that was much less large than the State of Palestine that existed before. For several reasons, that was not possible at the time. Then Israel occupied the Palestinian territories that did not yet belong to Israel. That's been going on for almost 50 years. Israel then pursued a settlement policy there. The colleague of the SGP referred to this earlier. The West would keep the Palestinians out of control and point Israel out as a scapegoat. I think the opposite has been the case. The settlement policy is symbolically condemned, but no concrete action is taken. The Arab world is divided. I don't think that's the issue right now. The point is that we recognise the rights of the Palestinian people. The Palestinian people have been oppressed for 50 years and their human rights are being violated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u49	I have a few comments to make. Firstly, Mr Van Apeldoorn talks about occupied territories. I wonder what those occupied territories are. It's disputed territory. That was my first point. In doing so, you can only speak of "occupied areas" if the occupier has the authority or has the function of authority. The Palestinians have their own Palestinian Authority. There's nothing we can do about him making a mess of things. I have the following comments to make on the Palestinian state. I've got a whole list here. I can list them all: 1956, 1964, 1967, 1973, the whole rata plan. I will not burden Mr Van Apeldoorn with any of that. However, one is very striking. In the year 2000 there were the Clinton agreements. Then the Palestinian state could be founded with the Gaza Strip, part of the West Bank and with East Jerusalem as its capital. They also received another 30 billion for the damage suffered. Arafat just turned it down. That was the chance of their lives. You can say that you may be wrong once, but in 2001 they rejected the same kind of proposal. In 2008 Olmert did something like this again and in 2009 Netanyahu. In 2013 and 2014 it was Obama. So these people don't want to. The Palestinians are simply locked up in these areas by the Arabs themselves, because they simply want to get rid of the Jewish state.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u50	At least the latter is not true. The majority of Palestinians and Palestinian authorities have long recognised Israel. It is time for that recognition to be mutual. These occupied territories are a fact of international law. I refer to Resolution 242, which was adopted by the UN Security Council a long time ago. I believe that this happened in 1967. It condemns Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza and calls for an end to this situation, which has still not been followed up almost 50 years later. The United States, Israel's most loyal ally, I think, also sees this as occupied territories and has actually declared that Resolution 242 should be implemented, but then little pressure is put on Israel to comply with it. Mrs Faber has a different interpretation of history about the Palestinians' refusal to reach a peace agreement than I do. Of course, there have been times when the Palestinians could have gotten more out of it. We can talk about that. I believe that the Oslo agreements are the most important agreements reached. We must also see that the Israelis have refused to act there in the end. Speaking of refusal, the Palestinians are not the biggest problem at the moment, but that has been the current government of Netanyahu for many years now, especially with the new Minister Lieberman. The current Israeli Government is not seriously prepared to talk about a two-state solution and continues its expansionary policy with a settlement policy that is actually trying to make a two-state solution impossible on the ground. As long as we do not try to do something about it, then there will be no two-state solution, and peace in the Middle East will remain an illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mr Van Apeldoorn mentioned the SGP, also in connection with the settlements. This is what I want to say from a historical point of view. Even before there was only one Jewish settlement, the Arabs did not want peace with Israel. They could not accept Jewish presence. Where does Mr Van Apeldoorn come from historically that these settlements would be some sort of obstacle in this peace process? My related question is what is the problem of the necessary Jews settling there. Can there be no Jews in the coming Palestinian state? If that is the case, what the hell are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u52	I will keep my answer brief. As far as I'm concerned, the Jews are allowed to live there, but then we move towards a single state solution. Then we are going to create a state, whether we call it Palestine, Israel or Palestine/Israel, in which all citizens have equal rights, Palestinians and the present Jewish Israelis, and where the Arabs will eventually be in the majority. But so be it. That seems to me to be an alternative solution in which I could agree with Mr Van Dijk's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u53	Just so we're clear, if there's ever gonna be a Palestinian state, do you include Gaza? So what's the problem if there were Jews living there, so you'd have different settlements there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u54	The land belonging to a Palestinian state is actually occupied and annexed by Israel. You are well aware that in this way the territory of a future Palestinian state will be completely fragmented and that the creation of a viable Palestinian state will be greatly hampered. When we talk about history, we can also go back 2,000 years and say that other people lived there during that time. But I don't think that's relevant right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u55	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u56	I was talking about Israel and Palestine and the new French negotiating initiative. Could there possibly be a strategic moment in that? I'd like a response. I don't think time is right anymore. I'm about halfway through my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u57	At some point, I didn't stop the clock. I didn't notice until later. But don't worry!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u58	But the fact that the terrorists of ISIS and other groups are turning against us and that there is a great deal of collective indignation towards the West is due not only to the hypocrisy of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict or our support for Arab dictatorships, but also, of course, to the whole of Western intervention policy, as it has been in that region since the end of the Cold War. We must acknowledge that this policy is now coming back to us like a boomerang. Obama is now the fourth U.S. President in a row to bomb Iraq, and how is Iraq now? The SP Group would ask the government to reflect on the effectiveness of previous military interventions. Why would bombing help now? I'd like a response. Many analysts see the Iraq war as the father of ISIS. The war against terror announced by President Bush at the time has thus become a great self-fulfilling prophecy. And now the Netherlands also participates in this. At the time of Bush, many, including in this House, were quite critical of the concept of War on Terror. However, all these objections now seem to have been swept off the table, including by the cabinet. Can the Foreign Minister say again how he sees this? Don't we shoot ourselves in the foot again? In my third and final part, I am entering into the rising tensions between the West and Russia. The term "new cold war" is becoming more frequent. That is a matter of great concern. The question is, how can we de-escalate? Above all, we need to stay in touch with Moscow. Talking about our common interests, about disarmament, or, for example, the proper functioning of the OSCE. We hope with Russia and with the cabinet that we will soon be able to recognise the legal personality of the OSCE. The main common interest lies in strengthening an inclusive European and global security architecture, based on the principles of collective security. With regard to the tense relations with Russia, we must also have the courage to look here at our own part in the situation that has now arisen. The first years after the Cold War mainly represent a huge missed opportunity. A missed opportunity, for example, to achieve genuine shared security in Europe, as suggested at the time by Gorbachev, among others. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Instead, the West, the US first, declared itself the winner of the Cold War and behaved accordingly. The NATO expansion since 1997, as Gorbachev also writes in his recently published latest book, went against the spirit of the then agreements on German reunification. And that enlargement, as the last leader of the Soviet Union writes, strengthened within Russia the camp of the hawks, of those who, and I quote Gorbachev, "wanted to exploit an alleged external threat to their own advantage and seek confrontation with the West." Could the Minister perhaps reflect on this analysis? Could it have happened if Gorbachev writes and if so, what lessons can we draw from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u59	Let's get some facts straight. There has been a long negotiation with the Russians on German unification. It was agreed that neither the West nor the East would be satisfied, namely that Germany would be reunited, but that NATO troops would not enter the territory of the former GDR. We then discussed the extension of NATO. There was no need to negotiate this with Russia, because that was not a matter for the Russians. What happened to Germany was because Russia was one of the four occupying powers. At that time, the countries that joined NATO were elected. That was their choice, with which we agreed, because otherwise we would not have allowed them to join NATO. We do not have to go to Russia first to ask if they agree. If we had, nine new Member States would have been told no nine times. The Russians were against Albania's accession to NATO. What the hell is the argument for that? Albania is hundreds of kilometres away from Russia. The fundamental point is simply that one did not want to weaken the Russian position by a successful NATO. You may find that, but then you shouldn't be unhappy when those who make the decision make that decision, even if you disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u60	It is not entirely clear to me whether I have heard a speech from my colleague or a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u61	Mr van den Broek made a correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u62	A correction in the form of an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u63	You did not fight my argument. I did not say that, as was sometimes said, Gorbachev was promised at the time that NATO would not expand an inch east. In his book, Gorbachev doesn't write that either. What he does write is that he wasn't in a position to enforce that. It was contrary to the spirit of the agreements at the time. My point is, above all, that it was and remains unwise that NATO enlargement took place. It is not a question of denying sovereign rights to other countries; it is a question of making sense in the light of geopolitical stability and peaceful and stable relations between East and West.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u64	The Helsinki Agreements agreed at the time, after the fall of the Soviet Union, that the territorial integrity and borders of Europe, as they were, would be recognised. The Russians signed it. Then we had the Budapest agreement, in which Ukraine surrendered its nuclear weapons. Ukraine was the third nuclear power after the fall of the Soviet Union. They surrendered those weapons, under the guarantee, among other things, of the Russians, that their territorial integrity would be respected. I thought both agreements were broken by the Russians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u65	That's correct. You are right that Russia has violated those agreements. We have condemned it, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u66	Thank you for your answer. I have another question which is in line with what Mr Dankert said. Surely it is not possible for us to say to countries in Europe who are independent, who have the desire to join NATO and are prepared to jump through all the hoops that have been held up, that we cannot, because then Mr Putin becomes nervous? That's not a strategically convenient position, is it? They are European countries. If they want to belong to NATO, it is their autonomous right to choose. They will then have to meet a number of conditions. But the argument that we don't like it, because Mr. Putin gets nervous, isn't it weird?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u67	It is not just about Mr Putin. Gorbachev strongly argued that this extension of NATO was not sensible, since it strengthened the position of hawks in Moscow. It is not a question of denying certain countries their sovereign rights, but, ultimately, NATO should have been able to make the same assessment of enlargement in the past. It is not an issue that if other countries want to join, then the existing Members must say: you are welcome. This is a trade-off that other countries, current Member States such as the Netherlands in this case, too, should be able to make independent. This argument also applies to the Ukraine Treaty. We, as Dutch people, had an independent balance. In that sense, I do not quite understand the question. Maybe I can continue my speech, then I will say more about it and Mr Van Kappen can come back again if he so wishes. Several experts and politicians warned at the time about the consequences of the enlargement of NATO to the east. We are now many years ahead and tensions with Russia are increasing almost weekly. Montenegro is now ready to become 29 members. NATO is expanding even faster than the EU. Hasn't the time come to learn from history? Does the government still believe, even with the knowledge of today, that the NATO expansion has been sensible? I would like a response from the ministers. In our view, the promise made in 2008 to Ukraine and Georgia that they too would become members of NATO was quite unwise. Former Secretary-General De Hoop Scheffer openly expressed his doubts about this decision last year. He said and I quote: 'I think we underestimated the humiliation (of Russia)'. How does the cabinet weigh these words from the former Secretary-General? Does the Minister share this doubt? I like to hear it. As the expansion of NATO has been extremely unwise, the SP Group is also deeply concerned about the planned deployment of NATO troops in the former Warsaw Pact countries. Can the government explain again why it does not consider this to be a violation of the 1997 agreement with Russia, the NATO Russia Founding Act? The massive rejection by the Dutch people of the far-reaching association agreement with Ukraine also offers an opportunity here. In addition to the questionable consequences of the neoliberal trade section, the political and military part of the treaty was also particularly offensive here. Now that the treaty, at least as regards 61% of the Dutch voters, is off the table, it is also an opportunity, in my group's view, to begin with a clean slate and therefore to stop the geopolitical strut around Ukraine. Would the Minister like to take this opportunity with us? The association agreement, and the Maidan uprising, which was also triggered by the West, and the subsequent unconstitutional regime change, have also given rise to a civil war which has led to more than 9,000 deaths and millions of displaced persons and refugees. Of course, Russia has a lot to charge. The Russian hybrid warfare in Eastern Ukraine is making a heavy change in our understanding of Russia's position. The annexation of Crimea was a flagrant violation of international law. The SP has consistently taken the UN Charter as its starting point and consistently condemned any violation of international law, of the ban on violence. This was true of the Kosovo war, especially the most widespread violation of international law since the end of the cold war: the invasion of Iraq, and this is true of Russia's attempt to re-establish its borders in Europe. As has been said, the UN Charter, in particular, should be the shared basis for international security. That could be the basis for a new European security architecture that is urgently needed, as the developments of recent years have taught us. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, is still looking forward to the answer given by the Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u68	I wanted Mr Van Apeldoorn to speak because he was so often interrupted. I still have a question for him. Does Mr Van Apeldoorn mean by NATO expansion that NATO should have said to the Baltic States at the time, when they indicated that they wanted to join NATO, that NATO would not allow this? This has been a sovereign question on the part of those countries which suffered a great deal under the Russian force. I've been to Tallinn a few times, you hear that every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u69	It is indeed the opinion of the SP Group that NATO enlargement should not have taken place at the time. I would also like to point out that many people in Dutch and international politics, including American politicians, had serious doubts about this at the time. The Clinton administration was divided internally: shall we do so? Expanding NATO a few years after the fall of the Berlin Wall. Isn't NATO actually a remnant of the Cold War? Are you sure it's wise? Won't that provoke Russia unnecessarily? There were serious doubts about this at the time. I would remind you that Frits Bolkestein, the leader of one of the largest groups in this House, the VVD, was strongly opposed to NATO enlargement at the time and had strong arguments for it. It was not clear to everyone at the time that this had to happen. There were serious doubts, from various experts and not just from left-wing politicians, whether or not with a P before. They were serious reservations. As far as I am concerned, the objections raised at the time, including those raised by Bolkestein, have now been met. We are now seeing the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u70	Mr. Chairman. My first rule was: the world hasn't gotten any clearer. Perhaps I should turn it into: Dutch politics has not become more transparent, now that I hear Mr Van Apeldoorn quoted on behalf of the Socialist Party in agreement with Mr Bolkestein. Dutch politics has not become more clear about it. I originally wanted to say that the world didn't get any clearer. This is a quote by Roger van Boxtel, my predecessor as spokesman for the D66 Group in the Upper House. He took this as a starting point in the discussion on the international security situation. I can only confirm that now, a year later. The international picture is constantly changing, and often not for the better. After the long peace of the Cold War, and over twenty years of Western domination, old certainties are replaced by new uncertainties and threats, such as the increasing chaos in the Middle East, the threat posed by terrorism and organisations such as ISIS, the refugee issue, tensions within the EU, including the Brexit possibility, and the question: what does Putin want? However, let us not forget that at the same time there is a lot of good news, such as the nuclear agreement with Iran, the Paris climate agreement, the halve in the number of poor people in the world over the last 20 years, and the agreement reached at the UN on a new generation of sustainable development goals. In my party's view, these developments underline the negative as well as the positive, the importance and the need to intensify international cooperation, both bilaterally and regionally and globally. As far as my group is concerned, the European Union is at the heart of this and the opportunities it offers for joint action and joint action. An active and constructive attitude of our country, with an open view outwards, is essential. Such an attitude gives us influence and thus we best serve our national interest and the common European interest. Only in this way can we guarantee our security and prosperity. Only in this way can we defend the values we value highly, such as respect for human rights and the promotion of the rule of law. There is no national alternative to international cooperation for our country. Those who do think so, make wishful thinking and sing away from reality. The concept of security today has a much broader content than 20-30 years ago. In a recent interview with The Atlantic, President Obama said that climate change is a greater threat to the US than ISIS: "ISIS is not an existential threat to the United States. Climate change is a potential existential threat to the entire world if we don't do something about it." Climate policy is also a security policy. Therefore, let Obama's comment be an incentive for the cabinet to give a higher priority to combating climate change. A more classical form of security policy is the security policy aimed at conflict prevention and conflict management and post-conflict reconstruction, for example in the case of civil wars and fragile states that break up. In these cases, a broad, comprehensive approach is needed bringing together military, political and economic issues. My group therefore welcomes the fact that the cabinet has often called the integrated approach "3D" in our country: defence, diplomacy and development; we have taken that term from the Canadians into one of the priorities of its international security strategy. Against this background, I do have a question about the Dutch participation in the UN mission in Mali and the current discussion about whether or not to end that participation. As the Cabinet points out in its note on the integrated approach, the difference in time horizon between the military and civil use of resources is one of the key problems of that approach. If possible, military commitment must be as short as possible, but for reconstruction and development cooperation one must think in long-term terms. This often requires security. There is therefore a tension between what the military would initially want, namely not to stay in one place for too long, and the situation which requires the military not to leave too early. What does that mean for the Dutch military contribution to the UN mission in Mali? The cabinet is currently examining the possibility of extending that contribution. It's been going on for a while. Apparently, there is a certain gap within the coalition and the two parties have opposite views, as we sometimes see on other foreign policy issues. I understand that financial aspects and the practical capacity to continue the mission play an important role for the Minister of Defence. But there are also other aspects mentioned by the cabinet itself in the memorandum on the integrated approach. The main question is how is it ensured that the withdrawal of the Dutch military from a particular conflict area, which is the case in this case, will therefore provide Mali with the security necessary for reconstruction and development cooperation. I understand that this is a prerequisite for the cabinet. It's also recorded in the note. How does the cabinet stand in this discussion? How does it weigh up the different interests and perspectives between military and non-military in the specific case of Mali? In addition, Mali has been an important partner of the Netherlands in the field of development cooperation for decades. In this respect, it is an excellent candidate for an integrated approach, possibly including a longer military contribution than the Ministry of Defence would like. I am particularly interested in the view of the Foreign Minister on this, because he has had a great deal of practical experience with the situation in Mali. Can he explain this? Sixteen UN peacekeeping operations are currently under way. There are 105,000 soldiers and policemen active there. So that is not as the British say "small bear" and also a further 15,000 civilian personnel. They are of great value for the prevention and management of conflicts. It is not for nothing that the UN peacekeeping operations were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1988. At the same time, the way in which the UN prepares and carries out its peacekeeping operations is often inadequate. I say that with pain in the heart. The report of the UN Independent Panel on Peace Operations a year ago, for example, points to the discrepancy between the often ambitious mandates, in which all kinds of tasks are accumulated for the military, and the resources made available, which are often less than those described by the UN as necessary. The UN organisation depends on the contributions of the Member States. So you would expect some kind of correction to be made between objectives and means, a trooper-to-task analysis as it is called in military jargon, but it does not take place. As a result, missions are sometimes doomed to failure, given the assignment they have received. In addition, there is micromanagement in New York and insufficient consultation with the countries supplying troops. The selection of persons in leadership positions is insufficient. According to this panel, more women should also be given heavy positions in UN peacekeeping operations. This last point is in line with UN Resolution 1325. Women, Peace and Security is one of the themes in the Dutch campaign for the Security Council. It is therefore a good thing that the Netherlands has made the choice to bring this particular element forward in its campaign. All in all, the current approach to peacekeeping operations is almost irresponsible in a number of respects. In my view, concrete improvements in the way the UN deals with military matters are necessary. My group therefore hopes that the panel report will lead to the necessary improvements set out in this report. What is the position of the Netherlands and the EU in the debate on the follow-up to this report? At the same time, the Panel stresses the need to find political and non-military solutions to conflicts in order to achieve a sustainable outcome. That's important. Mr Van Apeldoorn will be satisfied with this observation. Forced peace by military means, also known as "enforcement," strongly rejects the panel, in line with the line of thought "the UN is peace, not war." However, there are some reservations about the approach taken by the panel. Does this mean that the gradual development of recent years will disappear in order to implement more "robust peacekeeping"? However, the military are more forceful and more willing to use military means where necessary. The UN rule on peacekeeping missions was only to use force in the form of defence, so if you are attacked. In this new notion of "robust peacekeeping," for example, you should take offensive action in the protection of the civilian population at some point. What about the Netherlands in the discussion on the role of military and the degree of "robust peacekeeping"? I'm here to talk about Russia. The subject has just been discussed in detail. Our discussion today dates back to the letter from the Cabinet of June 2013 on the international security situation. In that letter, a distinction was made between three strategic interests of our country, namely the defence of its own and federal territory, a functioning international legal order and economic security. All three come together in the relationship with Russia. Moscow's decision to invade Ukraine, annex Crimea and launch a rebellion in eastern Ukraine is a direct violation of the international legal order. Our economic security is under pressure from Russian cyber espionage and cyber attacks. Moreover, it is the government's ambition to position the Netherlands as the gas roundabout of Northwest Europe, through the import of Russian gas. It doubled between 2010 and 2015. Shouldn't there be careful consideration of whether we are becoming too dependent on the supplies of gas from Moscow? We are therefore making ourselves vulnerable to pressure from Russia. Like our colleagues in the House of Representatives, we are therefore looking forward to the geopolitical energy strategy that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will draw up. Can the Minister give us a tip of the veil today? In what direction does the new energy strategy go towards dependence? As regards the third strategic interest mentioned by the cabinet, the defence of the NATO territory and its own territory, the situation has changed completely with the Russian attack on Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea. In my view, the central point is not that Putin is aiming for a Russian sphere of influence along his borders, that he believes that Crimea is actually part of Russia or that he is pursuing an anti-Western policy. The central point is that he has been prepared to use military means to do so, sometimes openly, sometimes concealed in a tactic of hybrid warfare. For the first time since the Second World War, we see a country attacking another country militarily in order to achieve specific objectives, such as annexation of a piece of land in this case. We have thus entered a new dangerous reality, because serious account must be taken of Russian military aggression elsewhere. How unlikely we felt not so long ago, after Crimea we really have to look at this differently. Military aggression against perhaps even NATO countries immediately affects us as an ally of those countries. Moreover, it is worrying that Putin and his closest associates not only talk loosely about an attack on the Eastern European NATO countries, he made a careless remark to the President of Ukraine that Russian troops could be in Kiev in two days and in Warsaw in a week, but that there is also talk about the possible deployment of nuclear weapons. They would be de-escalating because, if Russia were to use a nuclear weapon, the West would not want or be able to react. This would have ended the conflict in Russia's favour, and then de-escalation would have taken place. A bit strange definition of de-escalation, but it is seriously brought forward by the Russians in discussions about a possible conflict and their strategy. It is therefore understandable that NATO countries in Eastern Europe, in particular Poland and the Baltic States, are seriously concerned about possible Russian aggression. The reaction of the alliance has so far been twofold. On the one hand, strengthen the alliance's ability to react quickly and adequately in the event of a crisis through an improved and strengthened NATO Response Force. On the other hand, strengthening the military presence of the allies on the territory of the Eastern European NATO countries. The Dutch armed forces contribute to this in both ways, I note with appreciation. By the way, an addition to the previous discussion on NATO troops in Eastern Europe as part of the deal with Russia on NATO enlargement. A point to keep an eye on. It's not imposed on Russia. A deal has been made about it in the sense that NATO has said: we understand your concern about NATO troops closer to your border, so we promise that we will not permanently station fighters in large numbers in the new NATO countries. This means that at the moment there is a large strategic gap on the east side of the alliance. There is hardly any military presence of NATO and there are many, in some cases even hundreds of thousands of Russian troops on the other side of the border. How can you say that NATO is moving towards Russia and threatening Moscow? It's more like the reverse situation. However, the question arises as to what extent and for how long can Defence continue to follow this path, the path of strengthening its presence in Eastern Europe, given the financial problems for the Ministry and the serious criticism by the General Court of the management of the department. I would be pleased if the Secretary of Defense would respond to that. By the way, military reinforcement isn't the whole story. More is needed, especially confidence-building measures, such as more transparency on exercises and troop relocations and agreements on "no surprises," as it is called: no surprises. We need to know what another person is doing and what we can expect in the military field in terms of presence, exercises and so on. I know that the discussions in Vienna are still on this subject, but I would like to ask the Ministers to continue actively to look for ways to resume the talks and to make proposals to that effect together with other countries in NATO and Vienna. Please respond from the Minister. In general, it is difficult to predict how our relationship with Russia will develop. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, I believe that Russia has been in an identity crisis. It has borders that it has never had before, with millions of ethnic Russians living in other countries. It has a political system that it has never had before and that is fundamentally unstable. It has an economic system that it has never had before and the weaknesses with falling oil and gas prices become more apparent by the day. While Putin argued in a speech in the Duma ten years ago that Russia was developing into a free and democratic state with European values, in recent years he has increasingly distanced himself from those values and described Russia as an Eurasian country with its own identity and own values. In the past, especially right after the fall of the Wall and the break-up of the Soviet Union, there was a certain tendency not to take Russia fully seriously anymore. It was more or less put away as a loose case, a kind of hopeless third world country with nuclear weapons, which drove on its oil and gas revenues, a country that we didn't have to pay much attention to, except that we liked to buy some energy from it. For years we have seen Russia on the margins of our foreign policy. Now the question of how to deal with Russia is another central question in our foreign policy and I am talking about more than just Russia's threat to our security. In my group's view, last year's Russia letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs is a good start for a new, mature and more developed Russia policy, which strikes a new balance between de-escalation, dialogue and functional cooperation, as has been the case recently in the Syria crisis, on the one hand, and clear and firm positions where necessary, on the other. My group is particularly concerned about the lack of respect for human rights. The sanctions imposed against Russia for the attack on Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea still have a place in D66's view in such a combination of pressure and dialogue. As far as we are concerned, the debate on possible relaxation of sanctions is centred on the implementation of the Minsk II agreement, with the main point being the restoration of the Ukrainian government's control over its own borders in the eastern part of the country. By the way, the fighting in eastern Ukraine is still continuing, although it is on a limited scale. How do the ministers see this? Do they see any possibility of progress in the Minsk process in the coming months, in particular for the restoration of Ukrainian control over its own borders? I'm going to Syria. Despite a somewhat casual cynicism about the possibility of starting a political process in the civil war in Syria, this has been somewhat unexpected in recent months, at least until recently, because things have been looking a little worse lately. As a first result, agreement was reached on a very fragile and limited-respected truce. In the past and failed attempts to negotiate between the warring parties, the Netherlands played a not insignificant supporting role, because our country accounted for a large part of the budget for the UN negotiators. In other areas too, our country has played a relevant role in the Middle East crisis in recent years. I am thinking of the considerable humanitarian aid that is being given again this year, of our participation in the fight against ISIS in Iraq and Syria, and last but not least of our co-chairship of the Global Counter Terrorism Forum. This has certainly contributed to the fact that the Netherlands has been invited by the US to participate in the meetings of the Syrian Support Group, which plays an important role in coordinating the development of the international community in the Syrian civil war. It seems to me to have a good example of influence by taking responsibility. Two weeks ago, the Foreign Minister took part for the first time in such consultations. Would he like to go into that a little more detail today? I don't want him to tell all of us the greatest secrets collectively. What is his picture of the effectiveness and composition of this company, precisely in the light of the need to launch new attempts? At the moment, things are worse than they are in the right direction. In terms of the influence and role of the international community in the Syria crisis, we are talking about the UN, Russia and the US, but where is Europe? Honesty requires recognition that Europe hardly plays a role in the Syria crisis. That is strange, because it is in the immediate vicinity of the European Union. Europe hardly plays a military role, nor does it play a political role. Only in humanitarian aid is the EU a major player. Will the Foreign Minister, also on the basis of his experience two weeks ago, address the question of the role of the EU in the peace process? The EU is a member of the Syria Support Group, where the Netherlands also participates. Germany, France, the United Kingdom and Italy are, too. It can be said that this makes it difficult for Mrs Mogherini to decide a place of her own, but that does not necessarily have to be the case. See the EU's prominent role in the negotiations with Iran on its nuclear programme. Then why is the EU so absent politically in the Syria crisis? What has been the Dutch attitude to encourage Mrs Mogherini to play a greater role in Syria's drama? I also ask this because the 2013 cabinet letter on the international security strategy refers to "more European responsibility" as the first priority. In the Syrian crisis, at least until now, there is little evidence of this greater European responsibility, and so it is a conflict in our immediate vicinity. My group therefore expects the Minister to make the most of a greater role for the European Union in the peace process. In the press, statements by European diplomats who are frustrated about the dominant role of the US and Russia and advocate multilateralisation of the process appear, in particular a greater role for Europe. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The civil war in Syria, which has been going on for five years, is causing increasing problems, including for countries that have not so far been sucked into the conflict. I am thinking in particular of Lebanon and Jordan. The EU's small role in the Syrian drama could, as it were, be offset by a European key role in stabilising and supporting these two countries. Lebanon and Jordan have both absorbed very large numbers of refugees and are threatening to succumb to this burden. The latter would greatly increase instability in the Middle East and lead to even greater humanitarian tragedies. In my group's view, therefore, Lebanon and Jordan deserve special treatment which goes beyond the support that is already being given. What opportunities does the cabinet see for this at European level? This could take the form, for example, of a privileged partnership with the European Union, which would provide a framework for exceptional trade opportunities, macro-financial support and cooperation in the fight against terrorism. At national level, our country could upgrade both countries to partner countries in development cooperation. Speaking of the neighbouring countries of Syria, we still have a single question on the Palestinian question. Is there any progress in trying to reach an agreed solution? I think I know there is no such thing, but I hope the Minister will be able to correct me on this point. In any case, a Middle East Conference will be held in Paris on 3 June. I ask the Minister not only what our expectations are, if we have them, but also whether our country is involved. After all, we are the President of the European Union, but apart from that, we have been involved in the debate on the position of the European Union in the Middle East for many years. I would like an answer from the Minister. As far as Turkey is concerned, I should like to confine myself today to the point that our relationship with that country presents us with difficult choices. On the one hand, the autocratic development initiated by President Erdogan is a bad thing and contrary to our views on democracy and human rights, which must have its consequences for the talks with Turkey on membership of the European Union. On the other hand, Turkey is a NATO ally, bordering Russia, with a strategic position between Europe and the Arab world, whose cooperation we need to control the refugee crisis. For the moment, the best alternative still seems to be to keep Turkey as close to the Western world as possible, without compromising on essential values. A greater international role of the European Union and its Member States also requires, in the opinion of D66, more European defence cooperation. Last year an interesting and important report was published by the Centre for European Policy Studies on this subject. It makes a number of sensible recommendations which would represent a major step forward together. I would like to mention four of these recommendations. 1. A permanent EU military headquarters in Brussels. 2. A larger common budget. 3. Establishment of a core group of Member States willing to cooperate further. 4. Closer cooperation between EU Member States in the procurement of defence equipment. Some of these points have already been addressed in previous interventions. All this should result in a European Defence Union, which, among other things, assists NATO in the defence of the alliance territory. The D66 Group supports these proposals, which were made by the Centre for European Policy Studies working group and in which two former Secretary-General of NATO participated, Javier Solana and our fellow countryman Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. So it is difficult to come up with the argument that we are undermining NATO with this European choice. Would the Ministers please respond to these proposals, and hopefully in a positive way? In conclusion, we have a few words to say about the Dutch defence policy. In addition to political considerations, of course, financial considerations are also in favour of more European defence cooperation. The total defence budgets of the 28 EU Member States are now around 190 billion. According to a report by the European Parliament, no less than 26 billion of this is due to fragmented material policy. That is unacceptable in a time of great financial tightness in the defense. The savings that would result from a common European defence equipment policy could then be used for the much-needed reinforcement of the fighting force of the armed forces. In my group's view, first of all, the most basic needs, such as sufficient supplies, parts and ammunition, should be met in the short term. The Court's recent report states that there is a imbalance in this respect between what the Ministry of Defence's support services perform and what the missions in which the Netherlands participate require. The discussion with the Minister on the functioning of her ministry seems to me to be primarily a matter for the House of Representatives, but in the context of our discussion today I would like to discuss the link between a Ministry which is not functioning properly and our country's capacity to participate in international missions. The Secretary of Defense says we should be able to handle it. Of course, but such a statement will come in a different light if the conclusion that we cannot handle it is based on a serious flaw in the logistics process at the department, as the General Court has pointed out. Due to this imperfection, a large proportion of defence equipment is only available in limited quantities. My first question to the Minister is to what extent her reluctance to extend the mission in Mali is linked to the problems in the logistics chain, as indicated in the report of the General Court of Auditors. Secondly, what consequences can these problems have for the current deployment of Dutch units in NATO countries at the eastern border of the alliance? I hope that the consequences will not be too great, because it would really be an unacceptable conclusion that internal dysfunction in The Hague will not enable us to meet our allies' obligations. The above discussion about what our country can or can't handle is in stark contrast to what the government officially uses as the level of ambition for the armed forces. That's not bad. I quote: ambition of the cabinet is a military force prepared for a range of deployments, at all stages of the conflict and at all levels of violence, if necessary at a great distance from our national borders. With regard to the issue of 'at all levels of violence', I would like to see the extent to which this can be implemented within the current financial frameworks. With regard to the issue of "at a great distance from our borders," I wonder whether that does not contradict what the cabinet said in the 2013 letter on international security policy. This letter sets out as one of the guidelines for our foreign and security policy: more focus on unstable regions near Europe. Not "at a great distance," but "near Europe." That is, by the way, a choice that my group supports. This does not rule out the possibility of providing niche capabilities for certain military operations on a limited scale, even far from home, depending on availability at the time. But that is quite different from being able to act at all levels of violence worldwide, as defined by the Ministry of Defence. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u71	I give him the floor, Mr President. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u72	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u73	The question is put to the Ministers, but I was actually wondering what the D66 Group's own conclusions are on the basis of what has just been said; perhaps he will come up with that, but I have not heard it yet. In fact, he said that the level of ambition of this cabinet was so high, namely to work far beyond national borders to the highest level of violence, that this was not in fact consistent with the use of resources. Does the D66 Group now consider that the defence budget should be raised accordingly, or should the level of ambition perhaps be adjusted? Or something in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u74	Three things. First of all, you have to make savings by achieving greater efficiency where this is possible. I am well aware that this is often difficult, particularly with regard to defence equipment, more common procurement and more common research. Secondly, one must clearly give priority to the presence in Eastern Europe within the framework of the European Reassurance Initiative, thus trying to strengthen the defenceability of the European allies in the eastern part of the NATO territory, and also to strengthen the confidence that NATO can indeed ensure their security. If that is settled first, then you have to look at the third question as to whether you also have the capacity to contribute, for example, to UN peacekeeping operations. The level of the defence budget is, of course, also a factor. However, I do not want to go into this too specific at the moment, because it has many aspects, which I do not see all at the moment. There is one point I would like to emphasise. The size and use of the Dutch defence budget is also a political issue, particularly in relation to the US. President Obama recently proposed, within the framework of the European Reassurance Initiative, to quadruple spending on the defence of NATO countries in Europe, i.e. four times as much, to 3.5 billion a year. That raises the question: okay, this is what America is doing; what are Europeans doing? So from the logic of the situation, but also in the context of what other countries are doing, and in particular the US, it seems to me that we should move towards an increase in the defence budget. I assume that there is also a lot of money to be made available through more cooperation in the purchase and production of military equipment, but I can see the Minister of Defence nodding a little negative at this point, so I can see that in a moment. At least it is clear that in that interview Obama also expressed his annoyance about the freeriding behaviour of the allies, who sit back and let America do the heavy work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u75	I very much agree with Mr de la Malène on freerider behaviour. However, he himself is rather cautious when he talks about the necessary increase in the defence budget. I would remind him that in September 2014 we agreed with NATO partners in Wales that the budget should move gradually towards 2% of GDP in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u76	I need to be more specific. I did not mean to say that it should only be the way I indicated it. I wanted to say that I cannot mention percentages at the moment, for example: we want 1.43% in five years. I'm just mentioning something. We have not yet reached that stage in our discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u77	No, I understand that, but I would like to remind you that we in NATO had already come up with some sort of timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u78	Yeah, that's obvious in itself. We've also made commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u79	Mr. Knapen. No, he's moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u80	Oh, he just wants to go out. I come to my final words, Madam President. In the discussions surrounding the presidential elections in America, many candidates say that they are disappointed with Europeans. Trump even prefers to see the whole of NATO disappear; at least he doesn't think it's important anymore. As Europeans, we must invest in our relationship with the US. One way to do that is, in our opinion, to record some prisoners from Guantánamo Bay. That is a very sensitive point, both in the Netherlands and in America, but we hope that the cabinet will finally take the decision to do so. Later this year, the cabinet will present its national security strategy. This will also show close consistency with the international strategy, as the Minister of Defence has informed the House of Representatives. That is quite right; these two things are of course interrelated. Can the Ministers indicate when this presentation of the national security strategy is to be expected? I also ask this because the WRR's opinion on the future of the Dutch security and defence policy, which is very relevant in this whole context, is still not there. It was supposed to be there in 2015, but that was not the case. Is that WRR advice now mustard after the meal or will the cabinet wait to issue the national security strategy until the opinion of the Scientific Council for Government Policy has been presented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u81	Madam President. Last Sunday, in Verdun, a great commemoration took place, with 4,000 young French and Germans, of the Battle of Verdun, 100 years ago. This was done in the presence of President Hollande and Chancellor Merkel. Kohl and Mitterrand preceded them in 1984. The future has a long past: there has been peace for 71 years. I started my reflections in February in the European Reviews as follows. In the last 50 to 60 years we have had a Europe as intended by the founders: wanting to be dependent on each other and working together. Now the self-interest seems to prevail over the common interest and anger towards each other arises. We see a Brexit, the opposite in Europe of the former Eastern bloc vis-à-vis Western Europe and economic differences between northern and southern Europe. I would like to add today the Turkey-Europe deal on refugees, the election results in Austria, new elections in Spain and a provisional advance on the Greek debt mountain; we have to come up with up to 10 billion in the summer. There are cracks in the European walls and common values seem to go away. Right-wing and left-wing parties in the center are getting worse and worse with strong growth of extreme right-wing and extreme left-wing parties. Look at Austria, Greece, Spain and recently Baden Württemberg in Germany. These are destabilising developments that can also have an impact on security, both global and European. This security is already under great pressure from the ongoing conflict in Syria and the further advance of Assad. Our question here is whether the Turkey-Europe deal will hold on to the refugees. In this context, how does the Minister view the ever-increasing conflict in south-east Turkey between Erdogan and the Kurds, with even cleansing in those areas? How is the recurring flow from Libya and North Africa to Italy stopped? Last week 700 to 900 people were killed in the crossing from Libya. Most come from sub-Saharan countries. Well, that's a good thing to think about. Last week alone 13 000 refugees came to Europe via Libya. And supposedly, 800,000 people in Libya would wait for the crossing. The flow of refugees, terrorism and Europe-cynism are leading to stronger populism and increasingly resistance to Europe and even the euro, see the Ukraine referendum in the Netherlands, which was actually about our European Union membership. Is it not time for the European Union and the Member States themselves to reflect on the causes of this undercurrent, which is not quite justified and miserable as populism? And is it not high time that they did not take a wait-and-see attitude to the new major political landslides such as Austria and perhaps Spain? I read the interview of Minister Schäuble in the Financial Daily last Friday. The headline was: link between low interest rates and increasing populism. I believe that security is also a political issue, even low interest rates. I quote from the article: 'The rise of populist parties worries Schäuble'. The fact that more and more Europeans distrust their governments calls the German Finance Minister one of Europe's greatest challenges. In Germany, confidence in the press is also falling. "That's really dangerous," he notes. However, he sees an opportunity to take the wind out of right-wing populist parties such as Alternative für Deutschland: the ECB must raise interest rates. A new spring, a new sound. Monetary policy, he says, is now causing great concern to many people in this country, Germany. Schäuble sees a link between the extremely reduced interest rate by the ECB and the growing populism. You can't fight that connection, he says to the FD. And: 'As a member of the Federal Government, I have the responsibility to point out that connection'. Otherwise people will feel abandoned." The article also states that the hardliner Schäuble denies that he criticises the generous policy of the ECB. "I am not taking a stand on the ECB's monetary policy. In international discussions, I have said 'what is really different 'that central banks have to think together about how they are going to stop their extraordinary monetary policy, because it is becoming less and less effective'. Schäuble made similar comments on 8 April last. He would have urged his American colleague, Mr Lew, at the beginning of April that the political intervention and joint efforts were made to push central banks to stop the low interest rates. Schäuble would also have said to Draghi, according to the NRC Handelsblad of 14 April: Be proud, you can attribute 50% of the results of that successful party in Germany to this monetary policy. Of course, he was referring to the AfD. This is populism a la Schäuble, I would say. He, who has been in the center of power for so long, indicates what lives among the people. And we have to take that seriously. He felt that Europe was being blamed for everything: the flow of refugees, terrorism, money to Greece, the power of the ECB and the low interest rate policy, the criticism of the euro and also the fight in the United Kingdom about "in or out" Europe. Our argument is that low risk-free interest rates are not only financially risky, but also politically. The low interest rate is risky and, in our opinion, is a political time bomb. German savers are becoming increasingly poor and Dutch pensioners and workers are not indexed, but even reduced on their pensions. The account of the financial crisis is placed at the bottom of society, in the Netherlands with high burdens and cuts until 2016. What does the Spanish government do? It is a pleasure to announce a tax cut in the run-up to the elections in four weeks' time. And what does the European Commission do? It postpones a fine for violating the Stability Pact until after the elections. The reason? You can guess: the populist parties take the wind out of the sails. The Stability Pact has now almost definitively been carried over to the grave. I told you, everything's political. It is remarkable that Germany and the Netherlands are attacking the ECB. These two countries see the independence of the ECB as an issue of faith. They are the great savers and financiers, with France, of the southern European countries that were and are still in financial difficulties. That's where the referendum on a Brexit comes in. It could have a blow-out effect. Even if there is no Brexit, the feed remains for populism if there is only a small majority against a Brexit. It's an illusion to think it's over. The people make a connection between all these issues: we are not being listened to, they are doing so. It is significant that last week the IMF reported that there is still EUR 1000 billion in weak loans in Spain, Italy and Germany. Major profits from populist parties weaken the political basis for a European solution to the refugee problem in the coming year. This may also make the effectiveness of counter-terrorism much more difficult. A divided Europe must then achieve and maintain the implementation of the Europe-Turkey Agreement, while the opposition to Erdogan is increasing and there is growing criticism of the possible lifting of the visa requirement with the 28 conditions Turkey has to meet, but the European Parliament does not yet see fit. That's how we get into a circle. Europe must resolve the refugee crisis, but it loses its support for populism. Debilitating governments or cabinets of three or more parties will be less and less able to cope with this. The flow of refugees splits northern and southern Europe, not to mention Eastern Europe, which lets the rest of Europe solve the refugee problem. Popularism also lives outside Europe. I just need to point out that Trump is now definitely the candidate of the Republicans in the next election battle for the presidency of the United States. Trump as a prophet and a wizard. In the United States, Trump appeals to populist feelings among the masses of mainly white men and the underside. I would also like to draw attention to the cordoning procedure of the President of Brazil, thanks to a popular uprising that also splits that country, and to the riot in Venezuela. I now come to the global perspective. The International New York Times of April 26, 2016 featured an interesting interview by Jeffrey Goldberg with Obama about Syria and Foreign Policy. This view counts no less than 73 pages. The document is a striking proof of the great shift in the political thinking of the United States about security and what is American interest. Obama explains why he did not intervene in Syria after Assad had crossed the red line. Obama's demand for Europe itself to contribute more to military efforts is also very important. The freerider behavior has just been mentioned. What is the Minister's comment on this? Candidate Trump puts a big shovel on top of that. Mrs Clinton's and Mrs Trump's totally different views affect security in the future. Finally, read Trump's speech on foreign policy on 26 April. By the way, Mrs Clinton appears in the image of Obama in The Atlantic as a real pauper in Syria and Libya. Now I am addressing the Minister of Defence specifically and I come to the relationship between Russia and NATO. I refer to an article in The International New York Times of May 10th under the heading: With jets Russia sends angry signal to NATO. This signal is Russia's response to Obama's decision this year to substantially strengthen the deployment of, among other things, heavy weapons to NATO countries in Central and Eastern Europe. It is intended to discourage Russia from showing further aggression in that region. With those jets, Russia shows its anger at the increase in US military presence in a region that sees it as part of its backyard. The article mentions three incidents in Baltic airspace on 12, 14 and 29 April. Americans see these incidents as a request from Russia to the US to stay away from the Baltics, but according to the US that is not going to happen. These incidents will not soon lead to war, but they will certainly exacerbate tensions between Russia and NATO. In the run-up to the NATO summit, a large number of military exercises are held. Anaconda will be NATO's largest military operation in June: 25,000 troops from 24 NATO countries. Would the Minister care to comment on this? We are also asking how things stand with the implementation of the Minsk II agreement and how further escalation can be avoided. What does the Minister expect from the NATO summit in Warsaw? I come to the refugee problem. Can the Minister explain why Frontex cannot be rigged very quickly? Then what can NATO effectively do in addition to monitoring? Will the border and coast guard be established soon? A diplomatic solution in Syria, by the US and Europe together with Russia and Turkey, is the only solution to the conflict. What necessary efforts are being made? In addition to Syria, Libya is at least as big a problem, and that is close to Europe. There was a Libya summit on 17 May where Minister Koenders was also present. What cooperation is envisaged and what are the results of the summit? I come to the fight against terrorism. According to the International New York Times of 5 April, a so-called foreign fighter surge team of experts from the FBI, the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security visited Belgium, Greece, France and Germany in the spring. The aim was to advise on better sharing of intelligence between governments and within governments in the context of combating terrorism. Can the Minister elaborate on this? Has the Netherlands also been visited? The visit to Belgium, which was the first visit to Belgium, took place shortly before the attacks in Brussels; it may be. This US team was part of a little-noticed White House plan that was set up after the attacks in Paris to help Western European allies strengthen their defence and borders in order to avert the next major attack, which was inevitable in the eyes of European and American terrorist officials. I would like to point out that in the next month, 90,000 people will be brought up for European football in France to ensure the safety of a sporting event. In 2000 in the Netherlands and Belgium, only 6,000 people were needed at the European Championships. After the deal between Europe and Turkey, there have been many new developments. There has been increasing opposition to the visa agreement. Erdogan insists on this, even if not all the conditions are met. What does the EU do? The Commission gave a provisional green light on 4 May. Is there a plan B if the deal would end in the European Parliament or because of the lack of sufficient support from the governments of the Member States? Our group looks forward to the exchange of views with the cabinet with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few centuries, Europe has experienced two periods of relative peace: the time of the Metternich restoration after the Wener Congress and the period of the Cold War. Neither were ideal, but both were better than war. During the nineteenth-century peace period, Europe was still dominated by the Vielvölkerimperia, but there were nationalist movements everywhere that completely changed the European map after the first and partly after the Second World War. After the Cold War, the remaining national problems broke out, especially in the Caucasus and the Balkans. Europe now seems more or less at ease and has been able to form a new European Vielvölkerimperium, without compulsion and with, in principle, its own place at the table for each participating nation. But the last nations within the community that do not yet have their own place at that table, the regional minorities or sometimes even majorities in the last multi-population states of Europe, are now studying the possibilities of getting their own place. In the meantime, the European Union of freedom and justice is in danger of almost succumbing under the influence of new nationalism. The people of Europe seem to find it difficult to imagine a different form of state than one on an ethnic basis. We have for a moment thought that, giving room for all cultural diversity, a supranational European people could emerge, but despite the fact that Europe's boundless freedoms are eager to be consumed, it does not seem to be successful. As far as I'm concerned, that's too bad. This divided Europe must adopt an attitude towards the major world problems directly around us, the Middle East, Russia's assertive Russia and Africa's backwardness. There are many things we agree on here in this house and with the government, and also with the rest of Europe, probably more or less. The world is unsafe. It is therefore necessary to restore defence capacity, including our country. Much money is needed to return to the required 2% of GDP, but this may be a high priority. NATO, the Atlantic alliance, remains essential, but I believe that a more European military integration policy is also very important. Several speakers have already mentioned this. As far as I am concerned, in addition to a joint procurement policy, this includes the joint support of a European defence industry through joint purchasing decisions, from an efficiency point of view and also from a strategic precautionary principle. In the extreme case, a good neighbor is more important than a distant friend. Do the ministers agree? In any case, the European Commission's plans for a policy of asylum, which is not new but adapted, seem to be a sign of progress, and they seem realistic. Although, for countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, where there is no job for their own people so that they leave the country to work elsewhere, it does not seem realistic to have to provide shelter or pay €250,000 per refused asylum seeker. True European solidarity should perhaps lead to the countries where all asylum seekers want to go, here in Northern Europe, in particular, taking care of shelter from their wealth, without having the poorest countries pay for it. How does the Minister judge that? A joint European responsibility for the soundness of external border surveillance remains an absolute necessity. This means that it must be possible from Europe to assume that responsibility when it is needed. The conversion of Frontex to a European border guard fits in. Then Schiphol and the Dutch ports should also be able to be taken under the responsibility of that border guard. Or am I wrong about that? How do the Ministers see this happening in concrete and real terms? Border surveillance cannot in itself be intended to prevent refugees from entering Europe. It is true, however, that large numbers of real refugees require solutions other than unrestricted admission. The agreement with Turkey can therefore be defended in principle, and for the time being it seems to us to be somewhat informal that Turkey is a safe third country for refugees. In the meantime, of course, it is quite clear that Turkey is not always a safe country for Kurds and for convinced secularists, even if you are a Member of Parliament. The question of how we want to safeguard the resulting rights to asylum is very important to us. How do we deal with this, I ask the ministers. Moreover, on the border, Turkey is not always safe for refugees either. In order to limit its own problems, Turkey has long been calling for the creation of a safe zone in northern Syria. However, that is not so easy, because that would be an intervention in Syrian sovereignty and, in addition, large parts of Northern Syria are in the hands of the Kurds. Is this a very wild idea not to negotiate with the Kurds about the reception of refugees, mostly Arab refugees? There must be something to that and not just money, and Turkey will undoubtedly not be happy with that. But still: do we dare to choose the Kurds by making agreements that extend further and that would inevitably, even in Syria, give them a limited form of international recognition? With that question, we have reached the major problems of the Middle East. There were problems there for a long time, but now they have escalated to terrible wars on a large scale. The Kurdish problem is an ethnic problem, which is in principle comparable to the nationality problems of old Europe. It is about Poland's situation before the First World War. They were divided into three countries, the Kurds in four, none of which they could regard as their own nation state. In the end, the Polish state has arrived, and I think we must bear in mind that the Kurdish state will one day be there. I also think that the West should be expected to deal with this process not with weapons but with some sympathy. That's what I like to hear from the Minister. The ethnic aspect plays in the region for Turks, Iranians and Israelis, but hardly for Arabs. In general, the Arab population seems to derive its identity at least as much from its faith as from an ethnic or politically determined given. The Arab world is by no means uniform: there are Sunnis, Shiites in various religions, Alevites, Druze and Christians of all kinds. In practice, they are often strictly separate groups with different political choices. The struggle in Syria does not seem to be simply one of dictatorships against democracy, with IS as a complication. It is also one group of religious identities against another, although not in 100% separate camps, but in general certainly. The interference of the West, and also of Russia, with this kind of wasp nests never seems to produce a really good outcome. Iraq provides proof of this, Syria may be even more complicated. The question of how to act then lies first and foremost with the government, but of course also with us, the parliament. I think it is important to learn from European history: where different identities have to live together in one state, that can easily go wrong. Separation and adjustment of borders and possibly even the exchange of population may be the only way to achieve stability, as it has been in Europe. Iraq is moving in that direction. The development of Syria is not yet clear. In any case, it is clear to me that we should not interfere in such developments. We should not interfere on the basis of our preference for Western democracy. It is not everyone who shares it there. We certainly should not interfere on the basis of our preference for maintaining the status quo of states and borders. The G7 seems to think otherwise, because it recently adopted a declaration in which it explicitly supports Iraq's sovereignty and territorial integrity. I don't think that's wise. Do the ministers still follow me, or do they think otherwise? The same principle, which we do not adhere to our principles of legality, applies, as far as I am concerned, to the frozen conflicts in what the Russians see as their backyard. I've said that before. Their backyard is also our backyard. They are our neighbours, where we have our own responsibility. What the Russians maintain in Ossetia, Abkhazia, Transnistria and in Crimea is not legal, but in general it is not contrary to what the populations in question want. The situation in the Eastern Ukrainian so-called People's Republics is something I should like to keep out of it, although the situation may not be much different there either. I would urge that we take this into account in our assessment and urge, for example, the Ukrainian Government to ensure effective federalisation of the country and the Russians to work more on the rights of Crimean Tatars than on the return of Crimea to Ukraine. The appointment of the Danish former Prime Minister and former Secretary-General of NATO Anders Fogh Rasmussen as advisor to Poroshenko will certainly not make relations in that region much more flexible. And now to Ukraine: in our referendum, less than 20% of voters voted against the association agreement. The rest has no opinion, or is of the opinion that Parliament should deal with it, or is even in favour of the Treaty. This does not seem to me to be a basis for making many changes to the Treaty as the only one of 28 European countries. Finally, I come to the most difficult point: IS. IS is just one of the factors in the unclear bay of currents in the Middle East. However, it is a very extreme one. Action against ISIS from the Western countries seems perfectly justifiable if ISIS, as an extremely Sunni group, threatens Kurdish, Shiite or other minority groups in their territories. Further struggle against IS, i.e. on the grounds of its extremist and medieval character, seems to me to be justified only if almost everyone in the region, and especially the Sunnis, supports it. Whether that's convincing is the case, I'm not entirely sure. In view of the attitude of the Sunni States and also of a part of the Syrian opposition, we all seem to accept that, but perhaps the Minister would like to comment on that. Even if we come to the conclusion that this can be done with the support of the Sunnis in general, it does not seem wise to allow IS from areas that are, by a large majority, Sunni to be expelled by Shiite groups, Iraqi, Iranian and Lebanese Hezbollah militias. If our bombings support that, I really do think that is something other than support for Kurds and Shiites for protecting their own territory. Perhaps the ministers would also like to reflect on that. We are not in control of the situation in the Middle East. In the past, English and French as colonial rulers and Americans as superpowers thought they could turn the situation into their own. What is happening now, however, is to a large extent to be considered as a result. Probably the best thing we can do in this fireplace right now is to try modestly to bring peace, especially between the regional superpowers of Saudi Arabia and Iran. After all, things can get much more out of hand. It does not include arms supplies, not to Iran, but also to Saudi Arabia, which it uses in Yemen and also in its own country against the Shiites. On arms supplies, I would like to put a final question to the Ministers. Do they think it would be wise to start supplying arms to the new Libyan unitary government, which has been recognized by almost no one for the time being?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u83	One of the ministers ran away for a while. I will give the floor to Mr Van Kappen until the Minister returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u84	Mr. Chairman. The words of Dickens from his famous book Tale of two cities: "It was the best of times and it was the sausage of times," I think give an appropriate description of the turbulent and confusing time we are living in now. We have never been so good, but at the same time we are living in a time of geopolitical shocks and disruptive upheavals. The question is whether future generations will be as good as we are. The international security situation is deteriorating rapidly and is also more complex than during the Cold War. We are facing not only the increased threat to Europe's eastern border due to the rising tensions with Russia, but also the great instability of Europe's southern flank through the disintegration of the Middle East and parts of Africa and the associated mass migration flows. The rise of ISIS and other extremist non-state actors complements this chaotic image. Further from home, we are also facing increasing tensions in Asia due to China's increased assertiveness in the South China Sea. We are also faced with new forms of warfare, such as hybrid and cyber warfare. At the same time, there is economic stagnation, expanding clusters of fragile states, an increase in democracies with autocratic traits and we are in the midst of the fourth industrial revolution. Debates of the European Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It doesn't make sense to repeat. I shall therefore confine myself to a few points which deserve particular attention in our view. With regard to rising tensions with Russia, comments often compare the time of the Cold War. Understandable, but incorrect. The situation is fundamentally different now. An essential difference is that the Soviet Union did not want to comply with the ruling world order, but instead wanted to impose a different world order based on the communist ideal. Russia, on the other hand, wants to be part of the current world order, but demands a dominant role in it and does not shy away from the use of military force to enforce it. There is also a one-man regime in today's Russia, supported by a new Russian elite of "near friends." This makes the situation more unpredictable and riskier than in the Cold War. The people who surround Putin, the "near friends," are now freely talking about the fact that war with the West is inevitable, because the West is in the process of encircling Russia. In the new Russian doctrine, NATO is therefore referred to as "the enemy." Because Russia does not have the economic stamina to maintain a long-term confrontation with the West, a preventive surprise attack in their eyes is the best option. Even the nuclear map is being put on the table without any hesitation; Mr President has already spoken about it. This is evident not only from the rhetoric, but also from the kind of exercises that are held. Russian aircraft regularly carry out bogus attacks in NATO airspace and many of the scenarios of staff exercises held in Russia end with the deployment of tactical nuclear weapons. It is shocking, but the use of tactical nuclear weapons is seen by the people who surround Putin as de-escalating, because it is assumed that if the NATO countries are faced with the horrible choice to strike back nuclear, the Alliance will throw the towel into the ring and thus bring the conflict to an end. And so, according to this reasoning, the use of tactical nuclear weapons is de-escalating. Moreover, the conflict will soon come to an end and a long-term confrontation will be prevented that Russia cannot sustain. Rightly a terrifying reasoning. The plans to "Ground Launched Cruise Missiles (GLCMs)" with a nuclear charge and a range of 2,500 km. Placed in Kaliningrad and in Crimea, are part of this nuclear blackmail. These missiles are very difficult to intercept. The aim of these weapons systems is not so much to eliminate military targets as to create large numbers of civilian casualties. The comparison with the occasion for the Cuba crisis in October 1962, when we were shaved along the edge of the nuclear abyss, is obvious. The production and installation of these systems is contrary to the "Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty" of 1987. It is a sensitive and controversial subject, which I realise too, but unfortunately the nuclear map is back on the table; the nuclear threshold has been lowered. So we are going back in time and NATO's nuclear strategy is in the spotlight again. This strategy is based on the Strategic Concept 2010 and the 2012 Deterrence and Defence Posture Review. A key point is that, although NATO is committed to 'Arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation', NATO is and will remain a nuclear alliance as long as there are nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u85	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kappen says that the nuclear map is unfortunately back on the table. To be honest, I agree with him. That's disturbing. The question is what we can or should do about it, what the reaction should be. I haven't heard Mr Van Kappen say anything about it. Does this mean, for example, that NATO should put an even bigger nuclear map on top of it? Are we talking about a game of nuclear bluff poker, or could we also try to de-escalate and put nuclear disarmament high on the international agenda again? It has been lacking in my view in recent years. The question is whether this is only due to Russian unwillingness, or whether we should perhaps increase our efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u86	Thank you for that question. It's bluff poker. If you really need to deploy nuclear weapons, you've failed. The whole trick of the nuclear debate is that it scares you away, that you make it clear that the use of nuclear weapons leads to a horrible nuclear war that has disastrous consequences for all of humanity. But it's a very dangerous game of bluff poker. I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. In the rest of my story, I'll go into it further. Perhaps Mr Van Apeldoorn would like to wait for that. If he has any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Another important point is that NATO's nuclear capacity is meant to be 'deterrence', i.e. deterrent. The deterrent is based on a balanced mix of conventional and nuclear resources and missile defence systems. One problem is that the "mix" has been disrupted, because due to the cuts in defence over the past few decades, NATO's conventional capacity has been underrated, and there are gaps in missile defence. The strategy of the flexible response used in the Cold War, based on an escalation ladder, is therefore not useful. After all, the ladder has become very short now that a number of steps have been cut off. As a result, an existential threat places more emphasis on nuclear deterrents. In April, a PhD study was published on this subject by Mr Elmar Hellendoorn, of Utrecht University, in which the issue of nuclear blackmail and the lack of an answer to it were raised in a crystal clear manner. Also the article in de Volkskrant of 30 April entitled "Atomic Weapons. Mutual nuclear rhetoric" gives a good picture of the renewed nuclear threat. In order to restore the escalation ladder and thereby be able to respond flexibly to a crisis by conventional means, it is necessary for the Member States of the Alliance to give a high priority to strengthening conventional impact force and missile defence. Our question to the Minister of Defence is whether and how the Dutch defence organisation will follow these priorities of the Alliance. The debate on whether or not the ancient surrounding complex of the Russians is based on reality is relatively pointless. The fact is that the Russians are really convinced that this is true. All the more reason to remain in talks with Russia right now to at least avoid misunderstandings and unintentional escalation and to make it clear that an armed conflict with a nuclear dimension will have catastrophic consequences for the whole world and therefore for Russia. However, the extensive Cold War instruments to prevent unwanted escalation have been dismantled. The NATO-Russia Council still exists, but is hardly active anymore. Although Russia is once again being discussed on an ad hoc basis, it is precisely now necessary to resume that conversation on a more structural and broad basis, if only in order to avoid unintentional escalation. Our question to the Foreign Minister is whether he shares this view and, if so, whether and how he is going to make an effort to achieve it. However, we must realise that a meaningful dialogue without a credible military deterrent has little chance of success. President Theodore Roosevelt had already come to this understanding in 1900 when he said in a letter to Henry Spraque: "Speak softly and carry a big stick." According to the Bulgarian political scientist Ivan Krastev, Europe found painfully in 2014 that "soft power" does not automatically increase the security situation on our continent. The former Secretary-General of NATO, Rasmussen, expressed himself quite a bit at a NATO PA meeting. He said: "Soft power alone is really no power at all."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u87	I would like to ask Mr Van Kappen whether he also sees a role for parliamentarians in that discussion with the Russians he is advocating. We can at least put "speak softly" into practice. We, and I anyway, carry no big stick. Does he see any role for parliamentary diplomacy in keeping the dialogue open with the Russians?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u88	Absolutely. I returned from Tirana very early this morning, where we spoke with NATO PA exactly on this subject. It was stated that we should invite the Russians back to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where they were deported after the story in Crimea. It was brought forward by the Belgians in particular, and also by a number of people from other delegations, but the vast majority opposed it. The argument for this was, I agree that at the time we removed them from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly because the situation was very bad. The situation is even worse now. Then why ask them back in the Parliamentary Assembly now? I see that for the time being in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly does not happen, because the majority is against it. We still have an open channel in the OSCE. During the last OSCE session, we tried, especially our colleague Senator Stienen, to talk to the Russian delegation. That conversation took place, but that was nothing more than exchanging statements. Furthermore, there was hardly any discussion. So there's hardly any point in talking like that. My question to the Foreign Minister is therefore: how do you organise something like this and then in such a way that you can talk and they are in a situation where they can openly exchange their opinions? The discussion in the OSCE was: you're wrong and we're good. And: it's all your fault and we didn't do anything wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u89	Perhaps I can join Mr Van Kappen's question to the government and add that the situation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is similar. The Russians are absent there. Of course, we want to call Crimea a bottomline and the fact that we will never acknowledge its unlawful occupation, but we do think that there should be a conversation. I am therefore happy to endorse Mr Van Kappen's question to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u90	I had a conversation with him once at the invitation of the Russian ambassador. I didn't have that conversation in this room, but in another place. That is the only conversation I have had and in which an exchange of ideas and possible directions for resolution took place. I think we should create a situation where they can talk freely, because that is not always the case. Fortunately, you and I can, but if they are in such a delegation, they cannot. For "hard power," Europe is completely dependent on the United States. The United States has quadrupled its defence expenditure for Europe's ally defence. Where is Europe? It is not only uncomfortable and embarrassing for Europe that we cannot protect our neighborhood without the help of the United States, but there is also a trend in the US that tends towards isolationism. Previous speakers have already mentioned this. It may be electoral rhetoric, but the debate in the US between the presidential candidates does not reassure us at all. How does the Foreign Minister see the future of transatlantic relations in this light? Is there an alternative to the transatlantic band? Is it not time for the European countries to stop their own pants in the field of security and think about a successor to the 1990 Paris Charter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u91	I have listened for a long time to Mr Van Kappen's speech, but I do not think I have received an answer to my question as to how we, the West, NATO, the Netherlands, should respond to the fact that the nuclear map is back on the table. I do not believe that Mr Van Kappen is going to go into that in the rest of his speech either. In his earlier answer to my question he took my words 'a game of nuclear bluff poker' about which apparently is played and must be played. It's just a dangerous game of bluff poker. At least we agree. I am of course familiar with the theory of deterrents, also from the Cold War, the'mutual assured destruction', but as far as I am concerned it remains a doctrine that was quite "mad" or mad. I understand the logic of this from a certain point of view, but how can we prevent us from playing bluff poker, for example with regard to the tactical nuclear weapons that have been mentioned recently? In this house and also in the Lower House there has been a regular call for the removal of the American tactical nuclear weapons from Europe which are still stored in five different countries, including, as well as well-known, the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u92	Could you finish a little bit, Mr Van Apeldoorn?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u93	My final question to Mr Van Kappen is: what should we do with these tactical nuclear weapons in the light of his analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u94	In the case of deterrents, two components are important: capacity and intent. Sorry for the use of English, but this is the terminology used for this. So you must have the ability to destroy or harm your opponent, and at the same time you must have the political will to use that ability. If you have the ability, but it's obvious you don't have the political will, you don't scare off. If you have the political will, but you don't have the ability to do that, you don't scare off. In the whole nuclear dialogue, reduced to the essence, you will have to make it clear to the Russians that if they ever move to the deployment of tactical nuclear weapon, we will be retiring. Even if you and I wouldn't want that deep down in our hearts, you should leave reasonable doubt as to whether you might not. Recently an exercise was held by the English in the Baltic Sea. That was a tabletop exercise, where the scenario of an invasion of the Baltic States was practiced. At some point, a tactical nuclear weapon was thrown into the assumption, according to the Russian theory, that we would then throw the towel in the ring. The big assignment during this wargame, this tabletop game was: what do we do? In that wargame, the nuclear wargame was knocked back. We made that wargame public. That's part of the curious dialogue you have with each other: that at least you show your opponent that you have the capacity to do so. You have that stuff and that you also have the political will to use it. Doubts as to whether you have the political will are good enough. That's the only way to play that game. If you say now: we throw the nuclear weapons overboard, you'll not only make yourself vulnerable to nuclear blackmail by the Russians, but also by a country like North Korea. They're about ten now. But also a country like Israel has nuclear weapons. Check the Volkskrant, which contains unclassified data. And there are other countries that have nuclear weapons, including in the Middle East. If you're vulnerable to nuclear blackmail, it's a cheap way to go to war. Threatening: If you don't do what I say, I'm throwing a nuclear weapon at one of your cities, is a form of nuclear blackmail. If they're convinced you're not gonna do anything back, they're gonna get what they want. This is also why new missiles have been placed on Crimea and Kaliningrad. It is said by the Russians that the only purpose of these weapons is to eliminate the large European population centres. Whether they're serious or not, I don't know. I can hardly imagine it, but it's part of that nuclear rhetoric. I have the article in the People's Side and I'll give it to you later. That is a very good and neutral article, which outlines the dilemma in which you always sit when you have to make this kind of horrible considerations. In my view, it is an absolutely wrong signal when we say that we are abolishing our nuclear weapons. So you are vulnerable to nuclear blackmail, not only by Mr Putin, but also by all kinds of other countries that have nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, there are still far too many. On the international front, the VVD is in favour of a total ban on nuclear weapons. However, this can only be achieved internationally. I don't think I'm gonna see that again. There are plenty of countries in this world that will not participate and still keep and develop nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u95	One more brief question, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u96	I would like to thank Mr Van Kappen for his detailed reply. Tactical nuclear weapons have also been mentioned several times in this house. Mr Van Kappen says: we must not abandon it now. At least that's how I understand his words. I'm referring to a motion-Van Driel c.s. in February 2011 which states "... considering that the reduction of tactical nuclear weapons should be an important objective of Dutch policy; calls on the government to indicate, as soon as possible, what it intends to do to bring down nuclear weapons." This motion was co-signed by Mr Van Kappen. Do I understand from what you have said, and I ask Mr Van Kappen, through the chairman, that you withdraw from the operative part of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u97	I don't remember that motion at all. When was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u98	Has that motion been passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u99	I think so. In any case, the motion was signed by Van Driel, Vliegenthart, Böhler, Van Kappen, Kox and Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u100	That's interesting. I'll just have to take a closer look at what's in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u101	I'll send you the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u102	On its own, I would now sign that motion again, but I do not believe in the outcome. Of course, to anyone who argues that it is fantastic to possess nuclear weapons, I say: it is horrible. But you can't "uninvent" them; the stuff is there. You have to be very realistic about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u103	Mr Van Kappen says: in the context of the mutual threat, you must have nuclear weapons at your disposal in order to be able to participate in the game, no matter how annoying that game is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u104	To prevent nuclear blackmail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u105	Exactly. But does Mr Van Kappen think that you should have the power to do so yourself, or does he think that they should be present on your territory, in someone else's power of command?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u106	We agreed in Lisbon that NATO has a nuclear dimension. The Netherlands has also signed up for this. If you say "we don't want that stuff on our territory, let someone else do it," I think that's a really cowardly attitude. If you think that that nuclear dimension is unfortunately still needed at the moment, you should not be too bad to say that you also want to share in the moral burden. If you put the moral burden on others alone, I don't think that's right. I am speaking for myself now, but I also think for my group. You must also be willing to share in the moral burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u107	I understand that position, but my question is much more as follows. Does Mr Van Kappen think that if you have nuclear weapons on your territory, you should have the power to deploy them yourself or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u108	I think we have a say in it, but not a decisive vote, because they are not ours. I have indicated what we can do, namely at the point of the escalation ladder. If you've cut down all the intermediate steps, namely enough conventional impact force and good missile defense, you'll get much faster at the point where you can only fall back on nuclear weapons. If we want to push that point further forward, we, like all other NATO countries, will have to pay attention to strengthening our conventional defence and our missile defence. That's how you fix the escalator ladder. Mr. Chairman. In the strategic analysis, there is a remarkable division. We must not only devise a strategy aimed at finding an answer to the question of how to deal with Russia's strength, but also a strategy that answers the question of how to deal with Russia's weakness. Security experts have long pointed out that Russia has a number of significant features of a failing state. This theme is now also emerging in the public domain. In an article in the Economist of 1 August 2015, entitled "If Russia breaks up; the peril beyond Putin," it is stated that this is indeed a conceivable scenario. The question is, in that case, who will take control of the Russian nuclear arsenal? This is really a nightmare scenario. There will then be a virtually unmanageable security risk at the eastern border of Europe. Moreover, it is striking that the fear of Russian leadership, which the West would lead under the leadership of the United States to the fragmentation of Russia, is precisely NATO's nightmare scenario. Strange but true, Mr. Chairman. Our question to the Foreign Minister is whether he sees this danger. Or can he assure us that this is a scenario that only plays in the nightmares of security experts? Apart from Putin's Russia, we must also focus our strategic attention on the southern flank of Europe, where our security is threatened by the disintegration of the Middle East and parts of Africa. So we are forced to spread our strategic focus over two different strategic theatres, each of which requires a different political-military concept in response. That is complicated enough in itself, but the complexity is increased by the Russian intervention in Syria, which links and connects these two theatres. A solution to this region is no longer conceivable without Russia's cooperation, and this will certainly not benefit our negotiating position vis-à-vis Russia with regard to the problems at the eastern border of Europe. We are curious about what the Foreign Minister thinks about this and we are curious about his ideas on how to deal with this gordian knot. Then I'll come to the Middle East. That's what you really call a rough neighborhood. The well-known statement of "Chairman Mao" that power comes from the barrel of a gun is today in large parts of the Middle East and Africa the uncomfortable reality. The use of military force is not seen by the vast majority of the warring parties as an ultimatum remedium, to which you pass only after all diplomatic negotiations have failed. Precise negotiation is seen as an ultimatum remedium, which is only applied when military action has failed. So diplomacy is determined by the military facts on the battlefield and not the other way around. Of the warring parties, ISIS is by far the most dangerous group, convinced that it is destined to call the apocalypse predicted in the Bible and the Koran upon us. It is precisely this apocalyptic starting point that poses the risk that ISIS will not deter the use of chemical, and worse still, biological weapons. ISIS has already used chemical weapons on a number of occasions, albeit on a modest scale. On 12 March this year in Taza a small town 20 kilometers south of Kirkûk. Although no biological weapons have been deployed yet, there is evidence that this is certainly not an unthinkable scenario. Indeed, precisely the uncontrollability of the effects of biological weapons makes these weapons ideally suited to produce a worldwide apocalyptic effect. The WHO Scientific Committee concluded in a report published in June 2015 that the reproduction and even modification of the variola virus, the smallpox virus, by the application of synthetic biology today is relatively simple. In 2015, the AIVD's Joint Counterproliferation Unit and STUDY reported several times on the potential CBRN capabilities of non-state actors in particular in Syria and Iraq. In addition, a report by the WODC points out the use of drones to distribute CBRN weapons. A bizarre incident on April 22, 2015, in which a drone of radioactive material landed on the roof of the Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's house, clearly indicates that this is not a theoretical possibility. In addition, there are indications from several sources that ISIS is trying to develop or obtain these weapons. In this context, I would like to refer to the last NATO PA meeting in Tirana, where our colleague Senator Martens has published an excellent report, in particular on the threat posed by CBRN weapons. It endorses the fact that this threat is definitely increasing and that we cannot ignore it. On the other hand, in December, the NCTV indicated that the risk of the use of chemical, cytogenetic, radiological and nuclear resources by terrorists was not high. This is also apparent from the answer on 22 December 2015 of the questions asked in the Lower House on this subject. It seems that the government at the time felt that sufficient precautions had been taken. My group is not entirely reassured. What is reality and what is delusion? Our question to the Minister of Defence is therefore how it is currently assessing the CBRN threat and whether it has taken or should take further measures to better protect our military from this threat. Furthermore, the R&D capacity, the Research and Development capacity, has been virtually reduced in the CBRN area. Does the Minister see any reason to repair this capacity? I am referring here to research capacity. Then I come to migratory flows towards Europe. This issue has already been widely discussed in the recent debate on Europe. So I can be brief. There is an unprecedented migration of people in the world of about 60 million people. 30 million of them are located in a geographical area where migration towards Europe is the most obvious option. There is therefore also a security dimension to this. If we do not get a grip on these migratory flows, there is a risk that the social and political stability of the European continent will be undermined. The first signs that this is a real possibility are already there. It's the uncomfortable reality. The Turkey deal in combination with the hotspots in Greece is insufficient to regulate the expected increasing flow of migrants from Africa. For possible solutions it is inevitable to make agreements with a number of North African countries. We know from recent press releases that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is working on this within the framework of the EU. Our question to the Minister is how this negotiation process is going and how he estimates the chance that effective agreements can be reached with our neighbours in North Africa. The deterioration of the international security situation outlined above also affects the extent and nature of our defence effort. The armed forces need to be modernised and adapted to the fluid and unpredictable security situation. However, this adjustment and modernisation has been postponed over and over the last few years because for decades successive Cabinets have been draining many billions of euros from the defence budget. This has caused serious damage to the defence organisation. The armed forces are just a shadow of what they once were. From what we have left, the ability to continue has been severely compromised. Weirdly enough, however, in recent years the use of the weakened military force has only increased in recent years, and it is expected that in the future this use of the armed forces, both nationally and internationally, will only increase further. The cabinet has allocated extra money to the soul-blowing armed forces, but this extra money is not enough to turn the tide. After all, if the defence budget is raised again by EUR 200 to 300 million in 2017, then a billion euros has been added in the period 2012 to 2017. That seems to be an impressive amount, but the purchasing power of the defense has barely increased. Of course, I'm not telling the Secretary of Defense anything new. It has made the defence issue crystal clear on several occasions. I shall therefore confine myself to a few points which my group would like to highlight or which we still have questions about. The situation is downright worrying. In the opinion of the VVD Group in the planning period, a sum of around EUR billion per year is needed to put the basic rationale, investment and operational support in place. Mind you, this amount only allows for marginal investment. In fact, we're not getting any more armed forces for this amount, but we're just fixing what we thought we had. If the defence budget is not to be increased by a substantial amount of money, it is again necessary to cut back essential military capabilities. The downward adjustment of the level of ambition will then become inevitable and NATO agreements will no longer be possible. NATO has recently expressed itself very critically about the Dutch defence effort. Rightly so, because the Netherlands spends only 1.1% of GDP on defence, and if pensions and waiting payments and VAT payments are deducted from this, only 0.9% remains. This percentage is well below the NATO standard of 2%, but also below the European NATO average of 1.4% of GDP. It has been pointed out before not only by NATO but also by our own General Court. In its annual report on the results of the 2014 audit, the General Court stated that there is still an imbalance between tasks to be carried out, on the one hand, and staff, material and money, on the other hand, and concluded that "the Ministry of Defence has an inexhaustible change in itself'. In the audit of the Court of Auditors, which was presented to the House of Representatives on 18 May of this year, the Dutch Ministry of Defence was given another yellow card. In order to reverse the trend, substantial investment is needed over the next few decades, and that is precisely where he is at. In order to have a future-proof and relevant military force, it is important not only to invest enough money in Defence, but also to invest enough of the defence budget in new technologies and weapons systems. Within NATO, it has therefore been agreed that Member States should devote at least 20% of the defence budget to replacing equipment and investment in new techniques and weapons systems. This is the so-called investment ratio. However, the Netherlands also does not meet the standard for the investment ratio. The Netherlands last met this standard in 2009. Since then, a declining trend has started with the sad low 2013 with a percentage of 13.6 per cent. The estimates in recent budgets are based on a rapid increase in the investment ratio, but in practice this is disappointing. In 2015, the investment ratio was only 15%. An investment ratio of 21% was foreseen for 2016, but this is certainly not expected to be achieved. In fact, operating costs are necessarily offset by the introduction of investment. In addition, there is the fact that Defence is not compensated for price increases and currency risks. The organization is eating itself. The Minister presented this problem to the Study Group on Budget Space, which would present the results by this spring at the latest. Our question to the Minister is therefore whether the results are already known. In addition, the Defence Material Organisation, DMO, is understaffed and understaffed at other sites in the acquisition chain, which has led to underrealisation of the investment budget in recent years. Moreover, the DIP, the Defence Investment Plan, is not flexible. Sliding within the budget is tricky. What about the Minister's plans to increase the flexibility of the DIP? The Minister informed the House that, in view of the continuing underrealization, she decided to start from a five-year average for the investment ratio. Although this helps to narrow the gap between estimates and the realisation of investment expenditure, this obviously does not solve the real problem that defence resources and ambitions are not in balance. Our question to the Minister is what measures it has taken to resolve the under-employment of the DMO. What's the underemployment at the moment? What other measures has it taken to improve the functioning of the acquisition chain? We would also be grateful if the Minister could give us an insight into the extent of the commitments made at present and the extent to which they differ from the planning. What is the delta between the budget needed to maintain the armed forces and the available budget according to the multiannual budget? We are really approaching a crucial decision-making point with regard to our armed forces. We can't go on like this. The armed forces are eating themselves from the inside out. The current defence budget is totally inadequate. My group is therefore very concerned about the much-needed replacement of obsolete and worn-out weapons systems. After all, apart from the replacement of the elderly F-16 and the worn-out operational wheeled vehicles, a number of major replacement projects are coming towards us, which are also under budgeted. The current reservations for the three major maritime replacement projects, M-frigates, submarines and mine hunters, are a typical example of this. In order to make the Defence Investment Plan fit, these projects have never been compensated for price development and even reduced. It is therefore very doubtful whether the timely replacement of these capacities in the desired quality and quantity is still possible within the available budget. However, we cannot postpone the replacement of this equipment any further because of the fact that these units are approaching the so-called "end life of type," abbreviated ELOT, with rapid paces and, in the absence of replacement, they become not only technically but also operationally superfluous and unusable. The problem is that by constantly delaying necessary investments, a huge financial wave has arisen, which means that several projects need both budget and capacity at the same time. This leads to displacement effects and thus to the further advance of these projects and consequently to the further expansion of the financial wave. The Minister has also now had to shift investments to later years. We are therefore curious to see how the Minister will solve the problem of the worn-out weapons systems that will exceed their ELOT in the very near future. The acquisition of these systems takes a lot of time. Are we, even if the DOD gets money, too late to provide timely replacement? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of Defense. My input gives a slightly optimistic picture of the security situation. As has been known for some time, there are all kinds of emerging risks. Read our own 2010 inter-departmental study, the reconnaissance. Mr Knapen also took part. This study then talked about various uncertainties and risks. In the meantime, many of these risks have become real threats. The past 25 years have been characterized by a historically unusual period of geopolitical luwe. But this period of stability and peace is really over. We must reinvest an important part of the peace dividend collected in a military force capable of making a meaningful contribution on the eastern flank and south flank of Europe to the all-encompassing defence of our continent and to the protection of our citizens and infrastructure. In the east, this must be done mainly by credible deterrents, especially in the south, by continuing to regulate migratory pressure and to reduce and adapt the corresponding instability. I'm gonna close positive. Free Western societies have the money, technology, knowledge and population to successfully meet the challenges of the future. What has so far been lacking is the political will to devote a greater share of our prosperity to our security. The same applies to the Netherlands, one of the richest countries in the world, which is far below the mark in terms of defence. We can't look away anymore, because it's not five to twelve, it's two to twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u109	Mr. Chairman. My group wants to engage in the debate on the international security strategy on the basis of three principles which are important to us. First of all, when it comes to international security, we use the 3D philosophy: diplomacy, defence, development. I would like to refer to the motion by Mr Ganzevoort, which was adopted in this Chamber last year and which asks the cabinet to make it clear how the investment in diplomacy and development cooperation can be increased. We would like to stay in conversation with the Cabinet to see whether the good and sufficient instruments can be used in a structural manner. Secondly, GroenLinks wants to look at the international security strategy from a broader European perspective. No country in the EU alone is able to ensure peace, stability and development in Europe and at its borders. We are therefore very interested in the progress of the Global Strategy made by the High Commissioner Mogherini. At the IPC conference here in The Hague, Mr Schrijver also pointed out, the European parliamentarians present called for an integrated European policy. What is the government's commitment and what can it do in the final sprint of the European Presidency to take this integrated strategy a few steps further? As far as we are concerned, the urgency is high, because the number of fireplaces in and around Europe seems to only increase. We may have seen a lot of it coming, but there is often too little anticipated by the EU and also by the Netherlands. What can and should the EU do to prevent further escalation in a number of fragile states? The third of the three principles for my group continues to maintain, apply and further promote the international legal order. A stable international legal order must offer people in our country, in Europe and beyond a protective umbrella against insecurity, legal inequality and arbitraryness. My group and many others in this Chamber are concerned about the great instability in the regions around Europe. What we also want to draw attention to in addition to the well-known hotspots is the increasing instability of countries where the situation is not yet as hopeless as in Syria and Iraq, but where a worrying process of destabilization is under way. Let me give you a few examples. In the context of the General European Reviews, my group already called for attention to be paid to the Balkan countries, where the lack of perspective and poor economic prospects can lead to extremism. The New York Times of 21 May, about last week, had an alarming report from Kosovo. Under the watchful eye of American and European observers, a process of radicalisation is under way, probably fed with Sudanese capital. More inhabitants per capita have travelled from the country as IS fighters than any other European country. The legal system in the country is almost succumbing to the pressure of this emerging phenomenon. The King of Jordan recently expressed his concern about this, the New York Times reported about it, but from Europe it remains silent. Does the Minister recognize this image and what is his opinion? Another area of concern where ISIS is advancing and stability is threatened are North African countries. Here, too, the example of Tunisia mentioned by our group. You will only be a Nobel Prize winner, because the revolutions seem to be so peaceful and democratic, and then still undermined by attacks and a sinking economy. The breeding ground for extremism in Tunisia is now large. More than 5,000 Tunisians now reside as a jihad warrior abroad. We think it is very important to congratulate the EU on the fact that it has now concluded a trade agreement with Tunisia. As far as we are concerned, this is an effort to restore the economic perspective and combat hopeless poverty. But is it enough right now? A third example is Libya, where the situation is, if possible, even more worrying. Last month, the EU offered support in strengthening the police system, combating terrorism and trafficking in human beings and addressing migration issues. For the record, we support this. The UN is also active in Libya, but its effects do not seem to be visible. Here again the question: is it enough what the EU is doing and does it not need an extra effort to promote the economy and build the rule of law? In a broader sense, this question applies to Libya, to countries such as Kosovo and Tunisia, but also to other states such as Yemen and Lebanon where stability is under pressure. An important source of instability and unrest remains the conflict in the Middle East. The necessary recognition of the Palestinian State has already been exchanged with this cabinet by motion and written debate. I'm not doing that again. My question is whether it is so good that we are still leaving it to the United States to resolve the conflicts there. Without a solution between Israel and Palestine, the whole region remains unstable. Shouldn't the solution, especially as the US is increasingly turning towards presidential elections, ultimately come from initiatives of Europe? How does the cabinet view this? Shouldn't we add a shovel? In any case, should the Netherlands not speak out more strongly against Israel's violations of the rule of law, including the destruction of projects financed by European and Dutch aid for Palestinian economic development by the Rücksichtslos? For my group, the use of funds for development cooperation is an important tool for promoting stability by combating poverty, increasing economic prospects and promoting the rule of law. In this context, we can compliment the Cabinet on the extra money for Minister Ploumen in the Spring Note. But unfortunately it remains with a small compliment, because it is a thin scoop from a well-stocked kettle. My group still advocated and advocated the structural coverage of the first-year reception for refugees outside the OS budget, so that the money for OS is not used here, but in countries where this is necessary. That plea is not new, but the urgency has not disappeared. At the moment, we are spending almost a quarter of the ODA funds on asylum reception within the Netherlands. Money that is not spent where it is most needed. Apparently, we are again achieving the 0.7% standard for development cooperation, but what we spend on the ground in the region is only 0.5%. We call for real spending of ODA funds in the places where they contribute to maximum development, perspective and thus stability. On the issue of refugees, what is the government still doing during the Presidency to make Europe play its part? The pace at which Europe meets its commitments on the admission of asylum seekers makes us sad. We have great concerns about the Turkey deal and the tensions it raises with the international legal order. This is certainly also in the light of the recent judgments of the Greek judge that Turkey is not a safe country to send people back to. What does that mean for the assessment of the situation there by the cabinet? In the meantime, we can see that the flows of refugees are already shifting to the Mediterranean, with disastrous consequences. The UNHCR spoke on Sunday of 700 drownings between Libya and Italy. I can't control it, but the messages are alarming. Looks like we're still mopping with the tap open. Shouldn't the cabinet, as the European President, be making an extra effort to pursue a long-term policy on migration at a time when instability is still high? And we are not even talking about the threats from climate change, which could create migration issues of a magnitude that we don't even know yet. The VVD pointed this out, too. What initiatives are being taken, and in particular the longer term, by the cabinet? For defence, my group is particularly in favour of European cooperation. Not only to respond when it is almost or too late, but to anticipate is also our commitment here. We would like the cabinet to take further steps in developing a strategic vision for European defence cooperation, accompanied by concrete proposals for increased European cooperation, specialisation and coordination. How can we bring European cooperation forward with the aim of improving quality, reducing fragmentation and rapid and balanced democratically motivated decision-making on the deployment of peace and stability missions? Finally, two separate questions. What is the state of play of the lobby for the Dutch seat in the Security Council and what agenda does the cabinet intend to manifest in the V Council if the lobby succeeds? How and when will the cabinet inform this Chamber about this? When is the cabinet coming up with its final Ukraine position? What is the government's assessment of the general situation in Ukraine, partly in the light of the postponement of the Ukraine Summit? I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. 3D, cooperation in Europe and the preservation and strengthening of the international legal order are our starting points in the security debate. Don't respond if it's too late, but much more actively anticipating imminent instability is the long-term perspective that a European security policy should focus on. We are curious about the answers of the cabinet and will be happy to assess them on the basis of these starting points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u110	Mr. Chairman. "Europe has never been so prosperous, so safe and so free." This is the opening line of the 2003 European Strategy Paper on International Security. The Balkan wars had ended, Europe could work on a better world. Europe's prosperity, security and freedom were presented as a result of a development; we now know that it was a snapshot. Our prosperity was under pressure from the financial crisis, our security because of what we now call the "edge of instability" for Europe and our freedom is no longer threatened by internal and external security risks. I would like to highlight four issues in this contribution on behalf of my group: the challenges facing the Netherlands and Europe in terms of international security, the EU's security strategy, the indispensable role of NATO and our efforts in defence. Our Constitution imposes the task on us to work for the international legal order. This provides the basis for an active foreign policy, which is increasingly focused on burning security issues and on Europe. There has once been hope of making the use of softpowers and a well-focused neighbourhood policy of the neighbouring parts of Europe a better world. In the east, however, it has awakened Russia's assertiveness and military build-up. Beyond the southern flank and in the Mediterranean, attempts at democratization have resulted in chaos. In Turkey, which we have given a role in Europe's border control, an autocratic regime is developing with monocultural traits. Further on in Africa, the drought once again disrupts entire societies and threatens lives of millions. My group is in favour of a 'comprehensive approach' and has often highlighted the link between the climate crisis, the economic crisis and the security crisis. Even now, my group's attitude is not that we withdraw into our own bastions, certainly not in our cherished welfare bastions, because, apart from the lack of solidarity that this speaks of, we are once again putting the horse behind the cart. If we are committed to an international legal order, we have a broad understanding of the law in mind. In biblical terms, this is called "shalom": peace through justice, development and freedom through commitment to one another, harmony through reconciliation. Those words may sound naive, but they are the only basis for our hope that our world will be okay. That's the hope we're doing politically. That hope also activates our responsibility, of the Netherlands and of Europe. In a month's time, Commissioner Mogherini will present the European Union's new security strategy. Expectations are high, although everyone knows how complicated it is to come up with a strategy with 28 Member States. But don't let this be another snapshot. If this strategy is truly global, it will have to identify longer-term objectives clearly and give substance to a "comprehensive approach." The flight of desperate people from Africa to Europe has to do with many factors, but the lack of potential for their own development in Africa is poignant and significant at the same time; significant for Europe, which knows its historical ties with Africa. The current situation must lead to new efforts to share prosperity and development opportunities. The Global Strategy of Europe is established "in close consultation with the Member States." My group would like to hear more about the Dutch commitment to the negotiations on this agreement. What we have achieved so far is quite general in nature and usually comes through the annotated agendas. Today's debate seems to us to be a good reason to talk about it in this House. What does the cabinet want with the European security strategy? We are also curious whether the community of values that Europe is or wants to be translates into a'security community', as Paul Scheffer calls it. This requires solidarity between Member States, including with regard to the reception of refugees. This also requires an awareness of the significance of political geography. Scheffer states in his beautiful essay "The Freedom of the Border" that limits define who we are. In this sense, the internal borders of Europe can never be definitively abolished. Scheffer is right when he says that Europe needs external borders to be something and at least to be a security community. That is what we are facing, both in the south and the east. The 2003 European security document was written before the accession of Eastern European countries to the European Union. At the time, it was carried by the Member States which had realised the internal market without frontiers. The Eastern European countries are different; their accession to the EU served as security for national independence and security and from an idea of borders that seemed to be overcome in Western Europe. The security strategy they need is local rather than global. What does this mean for their attitude and their commitment, even when it comes to Europe's commitment to global security and sustainable development goals? Is it also supported by the countries of Eastern Europe? How does the Secretary of State view this? In these new European relations there is also a message for us. Our solidarity is being called for with Eastern European countries which have entered a cold war atmosphere. The alliance that can and must ensure this solidarity is NATO. The important NATO summit in Warsaw in July promises to become an important one and will send a signal to Russia, if only because Ukraine will be there. How does the Minister assess the security situation on the northern and eastern flanks of Europe? Not only the Baltic countries, but also the Scandinavian countries are beginning to feel Russia's hot breath. At the same time, the dialogue with Russia must also continue. This is already mentioned in the previous contribution because a Russia that is becoming increasingly isolated from G8 to perhaps the Olympic Games can only become more revanchist. Solidarity with Eastern European countries in terms of security, and hence solidarity with NATO, must also be given a military expression. I think it is commendable that the Minister of Defense recently sent the NATO Defence Planning Capacity Review 2015/2016 to the Dutch Parliament for the first time, partly because of her argument that transparency is a great asset in the relationship between government and parliament. Can I ask the Minister to send documents of such a general defence interest directly to the First Chamber in future? You can see the commitment we are holding today, even when it comes to defence. NATO's comment doesn't lie about it. There is great concern about the downward trend in defence budget due to austerity policies since 2011. Now we are spending 1.16% of GDP on defence, while NATO is asking the Member States for 2%. By 2020, this would be 1.08% under unchanged policies. There is growing doubt in NATO about the employability of the Dutch armed forces. This report should be read as an expression of serious concern. Also what has been added in recent years is insufficient for the structural improvements needed. Investment in equipment is needed and land forces need to be brought up to level, including in the light of a possible threat in Eastern Europe. The Court of Auditors has also recently made it clear in an analysis that we are falling through lower limits and that the equipment management and, above all, the readiness, readiness and employability of the army are at stake. I'm not the first to quote this conclusion. The WRR and the AIV have also spoken out. The WRR recently stated that consistent defence targets and choices with associated multi-annual financial frameworks are needed. As early as April last year, the AIV expressed its views on this issue in the Opinion on Instability around Europe. It referred to a delta plan for the armed forces, more budget and the need to maintain an investment ratio of 20% of the military budget. Of course, I am now taking up my motion from December 2013. I have pointed out, by a majority in this Chamber, that the defence efforts of the Netherlands are lagging behind in the light of NATO's 2% standard. By expressing our desire to fulfil our obligations, we express our solidarity in the field of international and European security. The time when we could think that the end of the Cold War produced a peace dividend and we hardly needed an army anymore is really behind us. We simply have to live up to our obligations. It is now the case that the prosperous Europe is making Americans pay for their own security. That is not going well for long, partly in the light of discussions in America itself. My analysis is that in America at some point the question "can we still afford it and do we still want to be the safety umbrella for Europe in this way?" The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the I am not saying that they will put an end to their involvement, but that they will evaluate their financial efforts. In my motion of two and a half years ago, I asked the government to draw up a financial timetable. This must lead us to fulfil our obligations. The reactions to my motion at the time pointed out new NATO agreements. Those appointments came through. A new commitment was issued in Wales in September 2014. The statement states: we will aim to move towards the existing guideline of spending 2% of GDP on defence within a decade. So in ten years' time, as members of NATO, we will move towards the 2% of GDP standard. This is an allergic language with the signature of the Netherlands underneath. In 2024, therefore, the Netherlands must have moved towards the 2% standard, but this year NATO, in the piece I just mentioned, notes that we are moving away from it. I know that the Minister of Defence has considered my motion and also the discussions we have had on this matter in committee to support her policy. In every letter from her we find the good intentions, analyses and wishes, but also the sentence that we can only invest again when there is financial space. What is the policy now? Where are the multiannual financial frameworks requested? If both Chambers are calling for additional efforts by means of motions, if we also have our signature under agreements with NATO, it is a matter of recent agreements; it is a matter of 2014 agreements and if all the important advisory bodies say that we really need to do something now in the light of our security strategy, what is going on that means that we still cannot see it here? I am pleased that a number of groups here today are interested in this point. We can't go on like this. Something must change in the approach to our defence efforts. My group believes that we should have a plan with a multiannual financial perspective aimed at meeting the 2% standard or at meeting our commitments and obligations. That plan needs to be put in place now and not after the elections, because then we will be another year and a half, and we are asking the Minister of Defence today not to wait, but to come up with proposals now. It would be great if we could at least be clear about the way in which the government, not just the Minister of Defence, because we have already heard them, will act in this. What possibility does the government see of taking a new path over the next ten years? I look forward to the answers from both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u111	Mr. Chairman. Can we defend our way of life? In other words, how defendable is the way we live? Can we safely continue to consume as if we have three-and-a-half globes at our disposal, or will we not only have to drastically moderate our own consumption, but also our knowledge, our technique and our insight, and will we have to use our influence to include elsewhere the idea that the status quo is indigent? It only stirs up the insecurity in the world and therefore also puts our safety and that of our children in immediate danger. A debate on the international security strategy cannot be limited to military force, to the number of military interventions to which the Netherlands is capable or willing, to the capacity of the OSCE, or to the removal of terrorist threats. If we do not recognise the cause of international security problems, if we do not name and face the breeding ground of war, violence, climate change, drought and other scarcity, then we are looking at the world through old-fashioned safety glasses that seriously distort our world view and that we are suffering from a dangerous form of myopia. From a misplaced feeling of superiority we try to make refugees a pass in the place, while we know that stopping refugee flows without taking away the causes is similar to standing in a river with your arms wide and thus trying to stop the water, as Diederik Samsom said before he came up with the Samsom plan. The fact that we pretend that this can work, that Dutch politics embraced the Samsom plan and concluded an agreement with Turkey, the unworkability of which was clear even before the ink was dry, is mainly due to the forthcoming elections and the inconvenience that refugee flows bring with them in the still prosperous northern Europe. Our ancestors reported themselves as lucky seekers in places like Manhattan, Ambon, Ceylon, Celebes, Formosa, Malakka, Sumatra, Batavia, Curaçao, Brazil, Guyana, Suriname, the Gold Coast, the Virgin Islands, Tobago, Sint-Eustatius, Slaven Coast, the Cape and the Dutch East Indies. We did so from the famous VOC mentality of former Prime Minister Balkening. We took what we liked there: raw materials, goods and even people. The question of what right we did that played less at that time than is currently the case. But apparently the Dutch of that time felt superior to the underdeveloped "natives" in their eyes. We've seen a lot of the world, we've taken a lot of the world, and for that reason we owe a lot to the world. The Plan Bureau for the Environment calculated that the so-called "land footprint," the amount of land needed worldwide to provide for the Dutch consumption of citizens and government, the land use for the consumption of Dutch citizens, covers an area of three times the land surface of the Netherlands. Every night, 1 billion people go to bed hungry. And the hunger problem is advancing towards Europe. In Britain, one in five people live below the poverty line and around 1 million people go to bed every night with hunger. It is expected that the number of people in Western countries directly affected by hunger will increase rapidly through, among other things, the destruction of social services, unemployment and rising cost of living. Scientists from the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC, expect millions of climate refugees to flee to the northern hemisphere in search of food this century. In 2013, there were 22 million people fleeing natural disasters, and this century the panel expects a huge increase due to climate change that causes misharvesting and rising geopolitical tensions as a result or in combination with it. Already we are seeing an increasing migration of people from Africa to countries such as Spain and Germany. That number will increase enormously if the food crisis deepens. The shortage of food was already at the root of the major uprisings in Tunisia and Egypt. According to the World Health Organisation, 2.2 million people die every year in developing countries from contaminated food and water. In addition to food shortages, soil erosion, extreme drought, deforestation, often combined with deep poverty and oppression, are the reason for people to migrate. We can hardly imagine that the shelves in the supermarket would be empty. However, there is a serious cause for concern, which is closely linked to the way in which our food supply is organised. Apparent excess in a very shaky balance. The picture of worried Chinese mothers and empty shelves in the Dutch supermarkets is about milk for Chinese infants... is just a small taste of what awaits us when large groups of consumers in emerging economies are going to take over our consumption pattern. Dutch food scientist Harry Aiking from Vrije Universiteit said: "In China, India and Brazil, hundreds of millions of people are working on the road up. And they can't be stopped with a cannon." Consumers in poor countries associate meat, dairy and eggs with prosperity, which means that demand for them will increase enormously and thus their price will increase. Poor people who are getting a little more prosperous do not need to come to Europe to make their new lifestyles impact on European eating and living patterns. KPMG estimates that food prices will increase by 70% to 90% by 2030. This means that there will not be enough affordable food to feed the world. We now know that war is not much further away than three missed hot meals. We are playing with fire with our agricultural policy: we are not feeding the hungry, we are feeding the hunger. We in the Netherlands will have to become less dependent on abroad for our food supply. There will be an end to the possibility of unbridled imports of feed for meat, milk and eggs from countries in South America or elsewhere. If food and raw materials become scarcer and more expensive, the main problem in the food producing countries will be how to feed their own population. Otherwise there will be hunger riots there. The question is why in the western world there seems to be little thought about these kinds of problems. The financial crisis of 2008 should have woken us up and made us aware that our food supply is at least as unstable as our financial system. The Netherlands is the most densely stocked country in the world. There are more farm animals than humans. And in that most cattle-proof country, Brabant is the most cattle-proof province. Of the 450 million animals slaughtered every year after a short and miserable life, a third, about 140 million animals, are bred in Brabant. This threatens the safety of citizens in the Netherlands. Yesterday it was announced that the official death toll among people due to the Q-fever epidemic, people who literally got sick from livestock farming in their surroundings, is not 26, as the official figures reported the day before yesterday, but 74. 74 deadly victims, because of Dutch goat farming alone, far more than terrorism has caused to victims in the Netherlands in recent years. The provincial board of Brabant set up a committee after the Q-fever disaster with the task of considering how to make our livestock farm sustainable. When presenting the committee's findings, the chairman, Daan van Doorn, said something very sensible: "The committee realizes that our current consumption pattern requires an equivalent of four globes." That sounds alarming. Four globes! While in the known part of the universe there is only one globe available that can contribute to the production of our diet. But Daan van Doorn also had a solution: we will therefore have to intensify agriculture further, build more megasthals to meet this growing demand. This is the only answer the architects of our current food system have to the question of how we can provide safe food for all people on our planet in the future, in a safe way that can prevent hunger and the associated war and molest. That is the further increase in production to meet demand. Not a multiplier of durable solutions, but a multiplication of the cause of the current problems. Doing the same thing over and over again and then expecting different outcomes. That's a definition that Joris Luijendijk gave of madness. The madness of our frozen food system fits perfectly. As Einstein said, you can't solve problems from the same way of thinking that caused the problems. Intensification of agriculture cannot make the earth's capacity more sustainable, let alone by adding the capacity of additional planets. We have seen this with the Q-fever epidemic where human health and animal life were literally sacrificed on the altar of the economy. The hunger that the world is currently experiencing is not due to the fact that we would produce too little food. On the contrary. Only two thirds of the food currently produced worldwide is actually eaten. Of the amount of food harvested on the fields, much and much less ends up in a human mouth. About 40% of the global grain harvest serves as food for the animals in the western bio-industry. Precious nutrients are literally swallowed by livestock farming, with a large proportion of the calories available being converted into body heat of the animal. Most of it is not available for human consumption. The security issue before us is mainly a food issue, more specifically a question of distribution. The most important question is: how do we ensure that all people can get sufficient food, both now and in the future? It's possible! But then we'll finally have to make real choices. Long-term choices. That is also why we strongly supported the Ganzevoort motion to strengthen the 3D approach. Not only on defence, but also on diplomacy and development. Development cooperation to achieve more self-reliance and thus less international tensions. Unfortunately, the implementation of this motion is hardly reflected in the current cabinet policy. We're gonna have to choose. Abraham Maslow summarized the choice between economic growth and security as follows: "Or you take a step forward to growth or you take a step back towards security." We can choose more of the same to end up with nothing. We can continue on the current road. The path of over-consumption in the West and increasingly in economically emerging countries, is to produce meat, dairy, eggs, fat products and sugars, which is a disaster both for our own health and for the health of our planet and for the welfare of animals in the livestock industry. That's the way of megasthals, of deforestation of tropical rainforests to make way for even more plantations for soy and corn to feed the animals in the livestock industry. This is also the path of the agricultural poison, which poisons soil and water and threatens to destroy bees and butterflies, the essential links in our eco- and food systems. The path of fertilizer, which can increase food production in the short term but in the long term leaves the soil bare and barren and which also costs a lot of fossil fuel to produce. The path of monocultures, allowing diseases and plagues to easily prevail, which means massive crop losses are lurking. The road through which five to seven farmers in the Netherlands have to stop their business every day because they are no longer able to sell their products below the cost price. Most of the beans that are in our grocery store in winter come from Africa. That we eat them instead of the people in Africa itself is because free trade is placed above all else and because we simply have more to spend on our food. Meanwhile, the remains of Dutch puff chickens, such as the wings, the legs and the intestines, are dumped on African markets at bottom prices. By effectively depriving countries of the right to protect their markets against this kind of unfair competition, we have also deprived countries of the right to take their own economy, including their own food system, into their own hands. This road leads to excess and waste of food on the one hand, and a very large shortage and exhaustion of the earth on the other. That is currently the greatest threat to security in the world, knowing that the world has enough to offer for everyone's needs, but not for everyone's greed. A safe world begins with an agricultural system that is in harmony with the environment, with the environment, human beings and animals, in which smart cooperation with nature is done instead of fighting it with agricultural poison. This is an agricultural system in which nutrients are closed on a regional scale, so that soils remain fertile without the use of fertilizer and in which food is no longer wasted, but actually feeds people. This not only means that we must prevent the loss of food between harvest and processing, between processing and supermarket and the disposal of food by consumers. Why does such a large proportion of the productivity of the fields in the south of the world end up in the western livestock industry and supermarkets? If we orientate the economy and food production much more regionally, we can prevent famines, preserve biodiversity and slow down climate change. In doing so, we are promoting security in the world more than fighter jets, mine sweepers or ground troops could ever be able to do so on their own. Moreover, we are building sovereignty of food, which we seem to have given up a long time ago, but which is the key to a sustainable, safe and just food system. Until recently, Olivier De Schutter was a special human rights rapporteur for the right to food at the United Nations. Food, like water, is a human right, but this right is actually being trampled on everywhere in the world. He took action against this and became a very influential advocate of agro-ecology. Agro-ecology is not only agriculture according to ecological principles, while ensuring greater food security by strengthening biodiversity and the ecosystem, but it concerns the whole food system, linking food production to the food chain and consumers. It is also aimed at the emancipation and autonomy of the farmer. The shooter pointed out to countries their duty to ensure that there is a sustainable food system in which everyone has enough to eat, now and in the future. In doing so, he rejected the bio-industry. Choosing agroecology is an ultimate form of opposition to the current economic system with free trade agreements such as NAFTA, CETA and the forthcoming TTIP. A system in which profit counts more than life. For almost a year De Schutter has been succeeded as human rights rapporteur for the right to food by Hilal Elver. Although it has only just begun this important task, it has already shown itself to fight tirelessly for a sustainable and just food system to promote food safety in the world. In the run-up to the 2015 Paris Climate Conference, she proposed dumping industrial thinking on agriculture, so that we can ultimately provide everyone with enough healthy food. The Dutch Government Scientific Council recently noted that the following issues in the field of food supply urgently need to be changed in the global context, including in the context of security policy. Agricultural policy must change into food policy, we must consume and produce less dairy and meat, food production must be more sustainable, an independent body must evaluate food policy and free trade must not prevent demands from being made on the ecological qualities of our food. I ask the Foreign Minister if the cabinet is prepared to make our food strategy an important part of the international security strategy. According to research by the University of Minnesota, we can feed 4 billion more people on the current arable land when we choose to stop processing agricultural crops into animal feed and biofuel. How could we ever deviate from the current form of production and consumption? Who is powerful enough to seriously tackle this issue and bring about the radical change of course needed in the context of international peace? There is an important role for the government. Consumers are often referred to, but they do not have the power to change the agricultural system, because Dutch agriculture focuses on the export of bulk products: 70% of everything we produce in Dutch agriculture goes abroad. The wretched thing is that it barely pays off the farmer, the family farm. Not here, not elsewhere. We know from history that wars are not uncommon about food, that wars cause food scarcity and migration flows, and that in times of war, we see that a safe existence is mainly linked to a safe food supply. Can the Foreign Minister indicate the role of food shortages, water shortages and climate change in international security issues, also in the light of the Ganzevoort motion adopted here? Finally, I have a question for the Foreign Minister. When will the cabinet respond to the association treaty rejected by the Dutch people? What is the way in which the government intends to deal with this proposal? According to what timetable? I'd like to get a response on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u112	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm about to suspend the meeting. The Secretary of Defense has to leave early tonight. That is why the Minister of Defence will be the first to speak in response in the first term. I shall now suspend the sitting until 7.25 p.m. so that we are 100% sure that we can get to work at 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u113	As I have said, I shall first give the floor to the Minister of Defence, as she will have to leave in the course of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u114	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your flexibility. Many Members have referred to it: terrorism, large migratory flows, the political thinking and actions of Russia, both in its own region and beyond, and the security situation in East Asia, which indeed cannot be ignored; a conflict there too can lead to far-reaching repercussions for Europe. In other words, that far-from-my-bed show hasn't actually existed for a while. That's what I said in the Lower House the other day. This policy debate is therefore about something. Recently, I said that the Dutch defence effort should focus on three strategic challenges in the coming years. First of all, this is to guarantee the security of our own territory and that of NATO and the EU. That is the security of our society, or 'keep safe'. Secondly, the promotion of stability and the prevention of threats in the ring around Europe and the Kingdom. This can be summarised under the heading "safety brings'. Thirdly, there is the protection of the global physical and digital node function of the Netherlands in the world, including the supply and disposal lines. "Safely connected" is the term under which this falls. Of course, these strategic challenges are closely linked. They also call for more efforts from Defence, all in the context of an integrated approach. With these strategic challenges in a world of unrest, which will, of course, be the subject of extensive discussion by the Foreign Minister, the cabinet has, of course, said before: we need a multiannual perspective for the reinforcement of the armed forces. More and more people are aware, and rightly so, that defence is an important tool in a very shaky world order. It is not for nothing that the government announced a trend break in the 2015 budget with regard to defence. And in the 2016 budget, the cabinet added the deed to the word. The trend of falling defence spending has reversed and the upward trend has been put in place. We seem to forget it occasionally, but more than EUR 600 million has already been added to the defence budget. I would add that a multi-annual perspective covers several years. That does not end after 2015 and 2016. But the Chamber also knows the state-wide financial record. This means that we have to look again and again at the financial possibilities for further step-by-step implementation. However, I would like to stress that in the broadest sense, the cabinet has a real eye for the changes around us and, therefore, for the increased importance of a strong military force. As I said, the multiannual perspective is more than just the years 2015 and 2016. I have often argued this in this Chamber and across the street, but also in all kinds of interviews, for example. We're not here yet. It is not for nothing that I have stressed that we will take further steps in the coming years. Once again, this depends on the financial resources available to the cabinet. We then look very clearly at three steps. First of all, there is the basic readiness. Secondly, there is the operational support, in good English the combat support and the combat service support. Thirdly, there are the investments. If you've put all that in order, you can really look at an extension of the force of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u115	Thanks for the answer. The NATO document we mentioned also recognises, of course, that resources have been added in recent years; so do we all. Sometimes it was because of new safety announcements that were needed. At the same time, however, it is said that this is not enough for the real trend break that we need. The Minister says again: we want to continue, of course, in the years to come, but it depends on the financial area. The point is that a number of significant steps are needed, also in the light of the agreements we have made, for example, in Wales. That was also the tone of the discussion here. I am not saying that we should be on the 2% straight away, but let the cabinet see what this looks like in a period of ten years. 2024 is mentioned in the Wales Agreement. My group, and perhaps other groups, would very much like to see what this means for the years to come. Is there really a decision with the government? So not "depending on the financial possibilities we have only a little..." but "We choose to get those investments in order."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u116	I have just outlined very clearly where the intensification, as far as I am concerned, should go in the coming years. First of all, that's the basic readiness. It's crucial. If we do not have the operation in order, we will continue to announce temporary measures every year. Then we have to turn again on the limited buttons we have, for example the sailing days, the practice hours, the flying hours and so on. This basic readiness must therefore be put in order as a matter of priority. But the wish list is long, because we have big problems with the combat support and the combat service support, i.e. the operational support. That is what almost all the groups have rightly raised. Where we thought in the past "we can appeal to our partners internationally," we see that this is a scarce asset, including with them. We are also hearing more and more from NATO: you must be able to provide those important "enablers" yourself; you cannot rely on other partners. I repeat that this is a second area of attention. The third area of attention is replacement investment. I have made no secret in the 2016 budget that the current budget is inadequate for all the replacement investments that are under way and that this will force us to make choices if there is no money. I cannot now outline a financial path and say: Defence is expected to receive so much in the coming years. However, I can say that we have put forward the multiannual perspective and that we have so far implemented it with more than EUR 600 million. This applies to the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. As far as I am concerned, it will be followed up in the coming years. I see it as my job to provide the right building blocks for the formation table. I think you or anyone else raised that, maybe it was D66. Then at that formation table great decisions can be made at once. You know as well as I do that a cabinet that is on the road, but has less than a year to go to the elections, is not lame, but given the state-wide financial record has limited possibilities to announce this kind of intensification of really hundreds, hundreds of millions and perhaps more. Of the 2%, I said that it is never an end in itself, although there are important agreements. Indeed, the idea of cooperation within NATO lies behind it and that you jointly take care of your all-encompassing security. As you have also mentioned, there is no such thing as accepting freeriding. Let us be clear, some Member States spend 2%, but not very efficient. I'll mention one or no, let's not mention it. For example, that Member State has several fighter aircraft in the air and needs different maintenance lines. So I also think it is important that we continue to ask ourselves what we are actually doing for the money, so that we take the output with us. It's not for nothing that I made that output, that matrix, available. I also said that for the Netherlands, the European NATO average is a logical target, that is to say 1.43% of GDP. You might be able to do more with that. I am not proud that we are so low-ranking with NATO, even more so, I think we should take care of that. 1.43% is 2.8 billion. If you, Mr Kuiper, find that amount for me tomorrow and find a majority for it, I am your wife! However, we have not yet reached that stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u117	I already have a wife, to be honest, but I appreciate your passion and emotion. I have a feeling that we will have the conversation we have had before, namely about the limits of both a reign and indeed the question of where we find the money. Of course, arguments have also been put forward for this, including the argument that we are benefiting from the Americans. You already pointed that out. Why doesn't that tell us anymore? Why doesn't that encourage us to change our attitude? We cannot continue to say that Europe must be the most prosperous part of the world, but at the same time use the Americans for our security shields. I feel like we're in the same conversation. You say look at the next cabinet period. You'll only get the same thing again. It does not look any further than four years. Ten years ahead in Wales. That's what we have to do. We need to look beyond government periods. We'll have to look at it in 10 years and make a plan. For me, 2% is not sacred either, but it has been said in Wales that at least we need to move in the direction of that 2%. If that's 1.4%, that's fine. That's better than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u118	Everyone's gathering at the interrupting microphone right now. If it's subsequent, I'll do it in the order of those who got up. I shall therefore first give the floor to Mr Van Kappen, then to Mr Knapen and then to Mr Oppenheim. So they all have questions and comments on the same subject, Minister, so you can take them with you at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u119	I have a brief question for the Secretary of Defense. During the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the famous 2%, which we have just discussed, came up several times. That 2% doesn't tell me so much, to be honest. That 20% investment ratio tells me a lot more. But they asked what actually falls under that 2%. To be honest, that kind of woke me up a little bit. In some countries, pensions and waiting fees are included, in others they are not. Defence carries out a lot of tasks for the civil authorities: the military police, the DSI, the Coast Guard, etc. For that, the defense will be compensated in cash, but is that compensation now in 2% or not? Do we have a standard within NATO that is equally interpreted by everyone? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u120	The Minister has noted this question. That is why I am now giving the floor to Mr Knapen and then to Mr Oppenheim, so that it goes on in an effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u121	Let me continue with Mr Kuiper's questions. The minister talked about the record that makes it possible for you to act again once there is a cabinet formation. Now there will soon be a NATO summit in Warsaw. At the same time, there is a relatively ominous debate in America on how much costs the United States must bear for Europe's security. That's what I'm worried about. Our cabinet formation has been timed so that this is later on than the American elections. I know cabinet formations are very important, but so are American elections. Is it not wise to send out a clear signal in Warsaw, in other words, for the whole spectacle in America, that a serious qualitative leap is being made and that we, with some other important allies in Europe, are taking action instead of formulating things in a complex way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u122	My question is somewhat in line with what previous speakers have said, but I am trying to think through various elements. There is a multi-annual agreement of 1.43%, i.e. 2.8 billion. Now I ask a question without saying that it is our position. Is it possible to create a multi-annual programme in view of the 1.43% target mentioned by the Minister himself, which will give us clarity over the next five years? Then we can tell whether or not we have the means to do it. Can we get a little more specific about what's on the table? I would also like to express my strong support for greater clarity as to what actually falls below 2%. Can we not take an example from the OECD/DAC system that determines what is covered by this 0.7%? On the jointly agreed points you can then stick to each other. Right now, there's quite a difference. One counts hospitals, the other may not, while the other counts pensions and one doesn't. Is it an idea that there is consensus on that 2%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u123	Mr Van Rooijen, does your question follow the previous one?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u124	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Denmark has the system that is actually planned over Cabinets for a longer period of time. That's the first thing. Secondly, the Minister said that this depended on the financial possibilities, even in the last year. What priority is there within the cabinet, given the financial possibilities? My third question, perhaps in conjunction with it, is whether the Minister can explain in a letter what this 2% standard actually means and what it does and does not cover with NATO partners? Can it simply give a country-by-country overview of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u125	That was a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u126	But some of them are exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u127	That's right. Before misunderstandings arise, I remind the Chamber that I have just indicated that we are getting away from a financial crisis. If you look at the state-wide budget, you can see that in recent years there have been a lot of hooks and eyes. They're still there. We must do our utmost to remain within the right financial frameworks. However, given the intensifications and the 600 million we have added to the defence budget in those very difficult years, we must be careful not to create the picture that nothing has happened. Last week, in the House's second debate, things were getting a little rough. Then I said we were organizing our own disappointment, when there's actually a lot of good going on. I have outlined the multiannual perspective for a number of years to come. In fact, in the House of Representatives, I said that I had so slowly expected a flower because of the 600 million that was added to the budget. Which gave me that flower the next day. I do not mention names and groups, but that person felt addressed. I would also like to say this: we have added the 600 million to the defence budget. We're not here yet. Let's get that straight. With regard to the criticism of the NATO standard and the question of what exactly is covered, I very much agree with the Chamber. That is one of the reasons why I always have to make the country-by-country output matrix public. Unfortunately, only the Netherlands and Norway, and perhaps another Scandinavian country, are doing so at the moment. This is also what we want to take into account at the Warsaw Summit. The Chamber receives a separate letter about the Dutch commitment, including from the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and me. I will therefore zoom in more closely on what that 2% is about and what the Member States or allies are putting underneath it. That is what has been promised. The differences are indeed large. I do not know whether I can give an exact overview, as has just been asked, because not all countries are transparent about it. The starting point is that the Chamber has heard me say this more often, and it is an illusion to think that the Americans stand up for European security forever. President Obama is right to say to Europe that it is high time she stopped wearing her own pants: invest and join forces. The Americans are insisting on further European cooperation because it will increase our capacity to act. In Denmark, the multi-annual plans are indeed a well-known phenomenon, although they do not always work out well. I've made arrangements with the House of Representatives. He's given himself the order to look at that too, so it's not being pushed away to the cabinet. She's gonna see for herself what this would actually mean. At the moment there is a coalition of VVD and PvdA, but soon there will be another coalition that may not simply accept that previous agreements have been made. Last year I shared with this Chamber that the political daily rates of the last two decades were absolutely undesirable in view of the armed forces. We then jointly established that you can abort the armed forces in an afternoon. However, getting units sailing, flying and driving again is an endless process. That's exactly what's worked out so devastatingly at the Defense Organization. In 2011 a huge task was carried out and now we're back on top of it. The effects announced in 2011 are fully palpable with the operational units in a negative sense. The positive effects of the intensifications are delirious, so they won't be felt for a few years. We are now at a very harsh moment, because we do not yet feel the intensifications, even though they are coming. That is also what the Chamber is going to notice in the way I report on the readiness of the armed forces. NATO is very much in favour of the deployment of the Dutch armed forces. There should be no misunderstanding about that. NATO is also positive about the steps taken by the cabinet to halt the decline in defence expenditure. NATO also understands that you cannot punish the Netherlands for the fact that we are finally dealing with economic growth. Of course, that is also a bit the easy thing to do with the 2% standard. However, NATO is also critical, and the Chamber is right to point that out. I thought it was important to share that with the Chamber as well. I was asked if I could send that to the First Chamber from now on and not just to the Second Chamber. The answer to that is, of course, yes. I'm truly sorry I haven't done that yet. NATO's criticism focuses, among other things, on the employability and readiness of the Dutch armed forces. That makes sense, too. If you look at the high demands that NATO has made to the units, you will see that the Netherlands is lagging behind. That is the direct consequence of decisions we made in 2011, but also before. NATO is also critical of the level of defence expenditure, but Wales was in 2014, so give us a moment. Those ten years are still running and won't be over overnight. Again, we have increased 600 million and we are moving forward with the multiannual perspective. Some spokesmen have called for attention to be paid to the recent audit of the General Court. The Court also notes that operational readiness is declining. I just outlined where that came from. You can see that the effects of past targets are now fully felt. The fact that the Court of Auditors confirms this is annoying, but it cannot be news, because it is entirely in line with the reports I have produced in recent years. The General Court also says that the quality of business should be improved. The Court of Auditors is therefore right to remind us of certain decisions of the past, in which a political drive has kept fighting capabilities in the air and there has been disproportionate cuts to staff capacity, for example. That is why we now have problems in the logistics chain. So there's a lot of things we need to intensify. This does not translate directly into more units, more fighter planes, more vehicles or more ships. That's really gonna be in business. That, too, is a point which the Court of Auditors is right to make. I also think we should be realistic. I hear from all sides, not even so much from members of this Chamber, that all the problems in the defence sector should be solved by now. Of course, that's an illusion. You can't get rid of two decades of reorganisation on reorganisation in a few years. Mr Dijsselbloem said the same last week. He said it would really be a miracle if all the DOD's problems had been solved by now. I see it as my job to make sure that all these problems, I have sometimes called them seem, but I do not find that a pleasant word with which we played Peek-a-boo for a number of years, come on the table and that we get rid of them and bury them one by one. One thing is certain: at the end of my term as Minister, not all these problems have been solved. However, they are on the table. That means we can move forward in getting rid of what I found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u128	I would like to refer to what the Minister says about the two decades of reorganisations. I understand that, but of course that wasn't a natural phenomenon. They didn't descend on us with the rain or the sun. That was a result of political decision-making by successive Cabinets, which apparently found it necessary to carry out reorganisations which we now say have yielded nothing. It just put a lot of pressure on the DOD. Perhaps it would be a good idea to look at how this should have been done differently and where this political responsibility lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u129	That's what I shared with the Chamber last year. When I just referred to the political daily rates, I also mentioned this. If a cabinet falls prematurely and a new cabinet comes up with new policies, that is the politics of every day. I can't find any of that, because that's how our democracy is organized; thank goodness. I think it is important that we debate the benefits of multi-annual planning here and on the other side. It can have a devastating effect on an organization like the armed forces. Of course, it is not just two decades of reorganisation. It is also about the changing security situation and the higher demands it makes on the Dutch armed forces. It is also about the great appeal made to the armed forces, both nationally and internationally. That combination means that we are currently in a very difficult period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u130	I do not address the Minister personally to two decades of reorganisations, because I understand very well that this is the outcome of the political process. However, the political responsibility for this lies with this cabinet and with the Chambers that have agreed to it. I am concerned that it should not be imagined as if it is some kind of natural phenomenon that has been reorganised for so long. These are all results of political steps that we have taken ourselves and to which we ourselves must apply the correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u131	That is what Mr Lintmeijer says. Ultimately, security is a core task of the Dutch government and we, of whatever political color you are, have a responsibility for providing that security to everyone who lives in the Netherlands. Let us also be clear about this: I have had the opportunity to have a good debate here on the importance of further European cooperation. It is no longer a question of defending the piece of Dutch territory. It concerns cross-border interests, trade lines, raw materials and cyber. In order to serve those interests of the Dutch well, you have by definition to cooperate cross-border. That is also why I attach such importance to European cooperation. I'll get back to you on that. Either way, our defence effort is ultimately a derivative of what the Netherlands wants to mean in the world and what we stand for: our identity, our values and our interests. If you look at what has happened over the past few years and where we are now, I think you can conclude that we are really on the right path. Let me now respond to the specific questions. I do not treat them in the order of the speakers if I am allowed to. Mr Van Kappen rightly said that the allergic deterrent is based on a mix of conventional and nuclear resources. He advocated a reinforcement of conventional impact force and missile defense. This strengthening of conventional force is of great importance for the purpose of deterrent and collective defence. We're not just doing that, we're doing it in an alliance. That is also what we saw in Wales: the renewed attention to this collective defence. And rightly so, we talked about Russia and that is one of the reasons why we are all focused on it again. I have lived in Latvia for a number of years. This is sometimes a little light-hearted, but I can tell you that the threat is felt there. It is not for nothing that NATO has started to improve the readiness and response time of the NRF, the NATO Response Force. Units simply need to be able to move faster than before to strengthen an ally. The NATO summit in Warsaw will pay particular attention to this, including the rotating and advanced presence of NATO forces on the territory of the Eastern Allies, the so-called Reinsurance Package. I have already said that this places great demands on readiness and employability. It also calls for substantial investment, particularly in stocks and material readiness. If you look closely at the intensifications included in the budget, you will see that we have given that priority. Well, that's that basic readiness again. NATO also calls for more and heavier combat support and more force. That is why I am so attached to the order I outlined in the context of the multiannual perspective. When it comes to missile defence, specifically an answer to a question from Mr Van Kappen, I think we all know that the Netherlands is making an important contribution with the detection capacity on board our LCF frigates and with our Patriot air defense capabilities. The strengthening of this capacity is also part of the follow-up steps under the multiannual perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u132	I know that the Minister has done a number of things, so that our LCF frigates are in principle able to fire SM3 missiles. The Americans have had to send four frigates to Rota in order to make Europe's Missile Defense a reality. They had to get it from the Far East. In Europe we have four, the Germans have four and the Danes have four. So we have twelve frigates in Europe who have the necessary launchers and radars on board. All you need is software adjustment and you need to buy SM3 missiles. Those flares are expensive. If only we could work together in that. If we do the software integration together and we buy together those SM3 missiles that we then jointly maintain and store. After all, it is very expensive to support them. When a ship goes to post, it takes the missiles out of storage and when it comes to mail, it transfers them to the next ship or the missiles go back to storage. Then Europe will have a capacity of twelve Missile Defence Frigates at once. That could also be a gesture to the Americans. They can use those four ships, which they have had to remove from the Indian Ocean and are now in Rota, again. I think it is such an obvious project to work together with the Danes and the Germans. I wonder what the Minister thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u133	I do not think we disagree on that. That is exactly what the contact with the Danes and the Germans is about. Mr Van Kappen is always well informed, but that is exactly what the talks are about with the Danes and the Germans. That doesn't mean you'll have immediate results tomorrow. This is because you are dealing with a number of political sensitivities that are not necessarily taking place in the Netherlands, but can also be an important factor in the Danish Parliament, for example. The results are therefore not yet guaranteed, but the talks are being held. I'm getting to the CBRN threat. As you know, in 2014, the National Crisis Partners and Defence launched the unique CBRN Training Centre in Vught. That's where we work internationally. There is also a close collaboration between TNO, STIVD and the Coordination Centre Expertise Working Conditions and Health Care. STUDY includes the CBRN threat in the threat analysis and is not increased compared to previous years. However, the threat is indeed present. That is also stated in the annual reports. Defence provides for the replacement of individual CBRN protection for the period 2020-2023. For the same period, the replacement of gas detectors for personnel in field, on ships and in base camps are also planned. In the short term, DOD will acquire state-of-the-art auto-injectors, even if I say so myself, to treat personnel with chemical contamination. It was asked whether the budget for R&D CBRN could be restored. We have a unique program. With 2.5 million, this is the largest research programme carried out by TNO for Defence. This enables TNO to maintain other unique capabilities, such as the toxicological laboratory. As is well known, this laboratory plays a crucial role in biological or chemical attacks and incidents in the Netherlands. I am well aware of the fact that we have decided in the past to cut 40% of the R&D budgets. However, this does not change the fact that Defence is making a huge effort to work together with partners, both national and international, on joint and responsible R&D funding in this particular area. For this reason, Defence has also added an additional budget of 0.3 million to the research programme for 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u134	The Minister makes me very happy. Thank you. The question I have isn't entirely on her property, but I'm gonna ask him anyway. What about the Department of Health? Has measures been taken there to protect the civilian population? Is there a discussion with the Defense Department about the increased CBRN threat, which is reflected in the NATO report? Is the Minister in contact with the Ministry of Health about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u135	Contact is definitely there. There is even good contact between Defense and VWS, but I must remain guilty of the question of the most recent appointment in the context of our intensification of the R&D budget. I'll get back to you on that. Several members were right to ask questions about price adjustment and exchange rate problems. These are problems that I raised two years ago, because there was a proper course at the time, so to speak, so that we could do more. Now we have one for our nasty course and suddenly we can do much less. That's right, which, of course, is devastating if you want to work on a stable defence budget. That is why I took up the subject for the study group on Budget Space. That is unusual, I say right away, because it usually happens at the time of the change of cabinet, so at the time of the elections. I have said that I cannot wait so long, because this creates unprecedented problems for all warriors. This also applies to the insufficient payment of price adjustments. It's been scheduled twice. I have already mentioned earlier that I hope to come back before the summer with an overview of what we are going to do and whether we can do something in the interim to organise more stability in the budget, and hence in expenditure. That is very important. In short, I will return to you before the summer of 2016 with the results or advice of the study group on Budget Space. They asked about the under-staffing of DMO, the Defence Material Organization. The staff report has been extensively reported on this. There has also been intensified in the personnel implementation of the Defence Material Organisation. It had to be done. The need for capacity in this sector of sport is not static, but very dependent on the projects in progress. This means that sometimes you don't employ staff structurally, but that you work with hiring for specific projects. We have been very well able to organise a better implementation of the military functions. That is what we will continue to send. Then there's a whole different subject. Mr Schrijver of the PvdA spoke about the limited military deployment of our F-16s in Syria. I very much regret that this image was created. The absence of SatCom in our Dutch F-16s was also a given during our thirteen-year commitment in Afghanistan. By far the majority of coalition partners do not have SatCom either; the Americans of course do. But that doesn't mean that you're at the mercy of the gods, to put it that way. Our F-16s are perfectly capable of air-interdiction, as it is called, but also close air support. That works something else and yes: if you had SatCom, things would work even more sophisticated. However, our F-16s are currently being used in a limited way, especially in Syria, because the battle is mainly taking place in Iraq. There both air-interdiction and close air support are provided. In Syria it is mainly air-interdiction, pre-defined targets. You don't need a SatCom for that. So an image has emerged that I deeply regret, because the effectiveness of the deployment of our F-16s is greatly appreciated. We also receive applause for that. Sometimes I think in that respect: take pride in the contribution we make, both in Iraq and in Syria. We don't need satellite communications because most of the targets have already been set in advance. Even in the case of close air support, it can be organised in a different way. So if we are so appreciated internationally for our commitment, it would be nice if that were also recognised in our own country. The four recommendations contained in the report of the Centre for European Policy Studies were discussed by Mr Van den Broek and others. First of all, we are talking about the permanent EU military headquarters in Brussels, with a large and common budget, a core group of Member States, and closer cooperation. On 9 March, a task force within the CEPS presented the More union report in European defence. The report is without a doubt food for thought. It provides a basis for discussion, at national level, at our own level, but also at European level. The emphasis is very much on the long term, but the report also contains a number of elements that I have already brought to the attention of our colleagues during the Dutch Presidency, which is still going on. As far as I am concerned, this report makes a very interesting contribution to the debate that is now taking place. One of the main recommendations is the revision of the EU's strategic framework for foreign and security policy. The High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, was already working on the so-called strategic review. Ultimately, this has resulted in the EU Global Strategy, which will be presented to the European Council at the end of this month. In fact, I've always said it took too long. One was writing for eighteen months, while the world burns pretty badly. Couldn't it have been faster? However, there is no point in sticking to that process all the time, because we must go on. I sincerely hope that something will be presented at the end of this month, but even the people of Mrs Mogherini said at some point: there's a war out there and we constantly to draft papers! So it was interesting that everyone started to get a little frustration. The second recommendation concerns the reform of institutions, procedures and funding with the aim of improving the decision-making process. My opinion on a European military headquarters has not really changed, because I am not waiting for new Brussels structures because there is so much already. Let us first take advantage of what has now been put in the scaffolding. However, it is necessary to improve military planning and control capabilities. At present, a great deal of time is lost because operational headquarters can only be activated after a Council decision. The third recommendation concerns the promotion of capacity developments and industrial harmonisation. This too has been and still has been spent a great deal of time during the Presidency. I have always said that we should have a wide-ranging debate on capacity enhancement every year, because it is in fact forcing Member States to do a little bit of buttock exposure. You can also focus each other on that way and address each other. Everyone has great stories, but if they come to a conclusion, Member States must be prepared to invest jointly in certain capacities. The Netherlands is the lead nation when it comes to the Multi Role Tanker Transport. This is a fantastic example of Poland, Norway and other countries. These are abilities that are incredibly expensive for a country just to keep them in the air, but you can be a lot more efficient by doing it together. You see wonderful examples of this, but when it comes to this example, we are the lead nation. An important remark is that there was a very strong tendency to adopt a top-down approach in the sense of: if we impose it on everyone, it will be fine. However, if you look at the practice, I just gave the example of the MRTT......................................................................................................................................................... I am thinking, for example, of the integration of our Airmobile Brigade into the German Division Schnelle Kräfte, or our mechanized Brigade into the German Armoured Division, or of the fact that the Germans are integrating their sea battalion, a kind of marines I cannot say, but then one understands what one has to think about in our Royal Navy. I mention the fact that the Dutch and the Belgians are already working so closely together in the field of the Navy. I refer to the fact that we are going to monitor airspace together with the Belgians. In this respect, insane steps are being taken within the framework of European cooperation. This is a source of imagination in other Member States, and it can inspire others. Instead of taking and shaming you then generate a kind of positive attention that can create positive copycat behavior in that respect. Questions have also been asked about the mission in Mali, but I do not think it is appropriate to discuss it tonight. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will say what is necessary, but the House of Representatives has often stated that we are looking at what is possible. If the cabinet has taken a decision, then the Chambers will hear it through the well-known procedure of Article 100. It must all be possible. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u136	Thank you for that. I understand, but my group also had a more general question. How does the Minister assess the Dutch participation in multilateral peacekeeping operations? We have talked a great deal about NATO, but the term 'United Nations' has never been mentioned today. The Netherlands has not or hardly participated in UN operations for a long time, at least not in this century. To our satisfaction, we are doing so now. I therefore think it is right that we should pay tribute to the men in Mali. The same applies to the contribution of the Netherlands to the UN operation in South Sudan, however small. How does this kind of UN peacekeeping operation fit into the defence policy advocated by the Minister? What does it intend to do in the near future and what is its contribution to the debate on the European Security Strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u137	It goes without saying that in this respect I am acting hand in hand with my colleague from the Foreign Office. I'm sure he's gonna say somethin' about it. However, let me be clear. I've said that before. The Netherlands is a member of the EU, NATO and the UN for a reason. This also means that we must make our contribution to all these organisations. At that time, my foreign minister had another role, but he inspired me to develop us in Mali. That's what we did. We can all talk about how the UN should organise it and how things can be different, but in the end it is important that the supply countries not only come from Africa or elsewhere, but that there are also countries with high-quality capabilities. That is why I said that the Netherlands must make a contribution. It does not mean that the Netherlands always has to do it in its own right; there are also other countries that have to do their part. That debate is getting better and better. My colleague from the Foreign Office will also comment on this. So it's not a matter of whether, or just of and, and. We have a responsibility to assume within the NATO alliance. We have a responsibility, for example, to take reassuring measures for the benefit of our eastern allies. But we also have a responsibility within the United Nations and the European Union. Sometimes it can be about a Coalition of the Willing. One doesn't rule out the other. But it is an illusion to think that the Netherlands should turn into some sort of UN peacekeeping force. After all, this completely ignores the fact that there is another opponent who will always determine the level of violence at which you have to operate. However, it is clear that the Netherlands can make a contribution in the UN context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u138	I couldn't agree more. We do not at all argue that we should suddenly make a UN peace force out of our armed forces. However, I have understood the Minister in such a way that she supports my plea that UN peacekeeping operations should really be seen as an integral part of the defence policy she advocates. I note that in the first fifteen years, or let me say in the first ten years of this century, the Netherlands has given little at home in terms of participation in UN peacekeeping operations. I understand the Minister's comments in such a way that she says: as long as I have responsibility, it will not happen again that the Netherlands is absent for so long in UN peacekeeping operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u139	We are a member of this organization for a reason and we have our contribution to make. But please note, that does not apply only to the Netherlands. If you look at recent years, many Western countries have not given enough at home when it comes to contributing to all kinds of UN operations with high-quality capacity. We have done something here and there. It is not that the Netherlands has done nothing in the past. It is also an absolute part of our policy. If you see where the United Nations is operating and look at the objectives they are pursuing, it is also in our interest to participate in such missions in order to prevent further escalation. I'm gonna go through it a little faster. Mr Knapen asked about the battlegroups. I still think it is very important. I've said many times: use them or lose them. After all, there is no point in creating something and never looking back at it again. They're looking back at it, though. Those battle groups are of particular importance in increasing the interoperability of the various armed forces. The battlegroup has also proven its added value in developing together and working together on reaction times. This is about political will. Mr Knapen has already mentioned this himself. Nor does the fact that the Member State in question pays all the costs in the case of deployment help. It is therefore always the subject of discussion. I've been Secretary of Defense for over three years now. I have been conducting this debate for three years, but I am not giving up because I still believe in the concept. I can see there's going to be more movement. There are even discussions about whether you can temporarily deploy an EU battle group at the start of a UN mission, for example. That sort of thing. These are all nice developments, but it is really a long-term process. In all honesty, therefore, I say that my patience is being tested with some regularity. I have just spoken, also in response to Mr Knapen, about the possibility of more inter-European defence cooperation, which is the core group on which D66 also spoke. I have made it clear in recent years that I am very committed to further European defence cooperation. I do not expect 28 Member States to set their bells in one go. That's just not gonna work. We will then, on the contrary, bring about a decline. I have just indicated that the bottom-up initiatives, the smaller groups of different countries, have taken huge steps forward in recent years. I just gave some examples of that. The Netherlands plays a leading role in this. Depending on the political color, you can be happy with that or not. If you look closely at where our extra money is going, also in the 2016 budget, I just gave the basic readiness to take a really unparalleled step when it comes to cooperation with Germany, for example. I just quickly mentioned the mechanized brigade and the German Panzer Division. How unique is that? We had to repel the tanks under pressure. That wasn't because we liked it so much or because we thought we wouldn't need those tanks anymore. In fact, NATO is now asking for this when it comes to conventional force and so on. Because of this further cooperation with Germany, we are now suddenly able, without having 200 tanks, unfortunately, to maintain our knowledge of the action with and against tanks and to expand further. That is what European cooperation should be about: the far-reaching integration of units and the joint acquisition of capacity. That calls for political commitment. It's not all gonna happen on its own. I notice this also when the Council is meeting, the European defence ministers: we like to talk about it, but in the end it is a specific number of Member States that have actually up their sleeves and said: we are going to do this. My Belgian colleague, but certainly also the German minister, Ursula von der Leyen, are really working on this. That's good to see, because I'm sure this is the future. We have talked enough about NATO standards. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP still asked about the uniform and the Dutch military. This is my heart, too. I'm proud of the uniform. The military themselves are by far the most proud of their own uniform and want to wear it. However, I am dealing with a security authority that gives an opinion to me and the CDS. The day something goes wrong, there's an attack or there's a big accident because me and the CDS have ignored an opinion from the Security Authority, I'm not going through it. We monitor and evaluate. The Security Authority knows that we would like to see that reversed. We are also looking at what is happening in the neighbouring countries. Different measures have been announced at different levels. We'll also see if we can differentiate a little more. As tempting as it is to say, let everyone wear that uniform, I do not want it on my conscience that I have come up with an opinion from the Security Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u140	That's a clear story, and I understand that. At the same time, of course, it remains a very bad signal, not only for the military, but also for the citizens, that your swordpower is diving. I assume that the level of threat in Belgium and France is really no lower than in our own country, but that is not what the introduction of a uniform ban is all about. I can't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u141	There, too, measures have been taken. I am not ready to differentiate, but in almost every country certain measures have been taken in relation to commuting or certain travel movements. It is not, let me make it clear, that the sword power is diving. That is by no means the case; we are acting nationally and internationally. The point is that if a soldier is on his way home, as an individual, alone and if he or she does not have escalation dominance or whatever, he or she should not be the victim of something terrible. That is my responsibility to the staff. I think we understand each other well, but let us be clear here that the swordpower is not diving. In fact, it takes place every day under difficult conditions. Mrs Faber of the PVV asked about double nationality and whether there are any known cases of double nationality workers who are subject to restrictions. No, that's not the case. The status of double-national staff shall be the same as that of single-national staff. All Dutch citizens can be named on an equal footing in public service pursuant to Article 3 of the Constitution. That remains the criterion for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u142	I understand that, but we're stuck with ITAR. I checked the website of ITAR. They include countries "in favor." These are mainly NATO countries and there are no problems with that. So people of Dutch nationality can simply work on an F-16 of American make. For example, Morocco is not mentioned as a "in favor" country, but not as a "not in favour." The Dutch defence should ask the US government for permission for the fact that in the Netherlands people who also have Moroccan nationality are working on such a device. My question is, is that something like this arranged within the Defense Department? How do we deal with that? It's an essential part, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u143	ITAR regulations are very strict. The Americans watch it closely and monitor and control it as well. If problems had been identified, we would have been told of course. What matters is that all Dutch people can be named on an equal footing in public service. That is Article 3. I am not aware of restrictions on military personnel with dual nationality. Nor do I wish to doubt the loyalty of military personnel with dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u144	I understand that the Minister does not doubt that loyalty, at least I can imagine that it is her position. It is not my position, but the Minister's position, and I respect that. In addition, we do have this arrangement. She's pretty clear about it. I think the Dutch Defense Department could just have a problem with that. That is why I am asking my question again, because it seems that nothing has been arranged at all. Then I still think we can have a problem with that. Are you prepared to investigate it further and to check it out, so that at least it goes well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u145	We are in regular conversation with the Americans about the ITAR regulations. If I had anything to say or if there were problems on the line, I would have shared it with you. However, I do not know them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u146	They may not be known to you, but that doesn't mean they're not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u147	That is true, but as I said, we are in regular contact with the Americans on the implementation of the ITAR rules. There are things the Americans are critical of. They come to my attention. We are working on this, but not on a dual nationality. Mr Van Apeldoorn of the SP asked about the submarines. Last year I had an exchange of views with you on the fact that the Dutch armed forces actually have a number of basic capacities. NATO, as well as the European Union, considers it important, for the sake of clarity, for each military force to have a number of basic capabilities; a kind of basic toolbox, if you like. In the army you think of infantry units, in the Navy frigates and in the Air Force of fighter planes. In addition, it is important that every military force has a number of niche capacities. Then you have to think of capacities that it is important for NATO to have them, while not necessarily having 28 allies that specific capacity. Then you can think of the submarines or the patriot systems. It would be insane if 28 allies had patriot systems. However, it is important that the alliance as such should have access to this. The replacement of the Walrus class is on the agenda. We are investigating what is possible, whether there is sufficient budget for it and whether it is a useful and responsible expenditure. I am not going to explain the importance of replacing our submarines here. I did so extensively last June in a letter on the future of the submarine service. Before that, too, I have already done so in the letter In the interest of the Netherlands. I would like to tell you that the Netherlands, too, cannot only arrive with a number of basic capacities. We, in particular, can play our part in the NATO alliance by having a number of niche capacities. Given the intelligence function of the Dutch submarines, you may imagine that this capacity is greatly appreciated by the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u148	In response to this answer about the submarines, I have a broader question. The Minister and this government, as I have seen before, remain committed to an army that is broad and versatile, to the highest level of violence and to far beyond our borders. The question arises as to whether fundamental choices should rather be made. Even though a single political party in this house is calling for a few billion increase in the defence budget, I think the Minister knows that there will be no majority in the end. Do we have to spend 2.5 billion on new submarines, whereas in the meantime, as we read in the reports, the bullets in the army are about to run out? You can only spend every euro once. Is this a responsible expense? Perhaps the Minister will be able to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u149	I have just indicated that my first priority is to put the basics in order, i.e. the exploitation and also the stocks. Then it's also about ammunition, let me be clear about that. This must be put in order as a matter of priority. However, you cannot just say that we have dropped a bit there and there, so let us just write off the replacement investment. In the end, we are still dealing with a NATO alliance, but also with a European Union. The allies are expected to contribute to solving the so-called shortfalls, the shortcomings identified there. It would be nice if we made our choices that way. The basic readiness is set in order step by step. I am convinced that we are making the right progress. In the area of the investment budget, we still have a big step to take. I believe that the Netherlands remains a credible and trustworthy partner within the European Union, within the United Nations, and within NATO. You say we have to make far-reaching choices. If that would result in the rejection of weapons systems or the disabling of units, I'm not in favour of that. The Netherlands is currently in a low ranking in terms of contribution. I believe that we are at number 17 within the NATO alliance. Given the interests we have in the world around us, a serious contribution can be expected from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u150	I have a follow-up question to what the minister just said. I understand very well that this is the current policy, that it is trying to implement as well as possible with the resources available. There aren't many of them. We are dealing de facto with a limited budget and there is still a lot of catching up to be done to compensate for past cuts. How realistic is it still to maintain levels of ambition aimed at a substantial high-quality role far beyond the Netherlands and far beyond Europe and aimed at contributing to the security of the NATO territory itself? The first priority should be the NATO territory itself and what it requires. Then we have to look at what a global role can have, in NATO context, but perhaps at European level, although this is less likely to be so, and perhaps at UN level, as Mr Schrijver said. It really depends on how far you want to go in all these different areas. I do not conclude that it is impossible to combine the different ambitions, but does the Minister constantly come across the question of what to give priority to in her daily work? I hope she will at least agree with me that the defence of our own and our alliance territory should be the first priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u151	The collective defense has our full attention. Let me be clear about this too: the Netherlands is making a full contribution to this. I mention our contribution to the NATO Response Force, and the role we have played in relation to the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, the VJTF. I would also like to mention the contribution we are making in the context of the reassuring measures. We are absolutely making our contribution. NATO is right to point out that we are further improving our employability, readiness and therefore preparedness and response time. It's been noted. That's what we're working on, as we speak. Before we get the impression that we would not be able to do so, that is by no means the case. Of course, choices have to be made. We can't do everything. Take the current stakes in Mali and the Sahel region. One calls it far away, but in the end it is the European backyard, with potentially major consequences for Europe and therefore for the Netherlands. A hub of weapons, drugs and human trafficking; all kinds of things, including in the context of migration, that concern us. Take our commitment to the fight against ISIS, which is about our values. If we didn't worry about that anymore, what would we worry about? We therefore have a role to play in certain respects, because this threat may be far away from us, but its consequences can be brought directly into our own inner cities. The collective defence of the NATO territory certainly has the full attention, but that does not mean that we can leave the rest to others. That would be some kind of freerider behavior. At the beginning I said that the interests of the Netherlands are completely tied to the world around us. The Netherlands can therefore be expected to make a serious contribution in the UN, EU and NATO context, but sometimes also in the framework of the Coalition of the Willing. I'm really gonna hurry up now. Mr Van Apeldoorn spoke about the Airwars website. I have often said that preventing and minimising accidental damage is the highest priority not only for the Netherlands, but for the entire coalition. Every civilian victim is one too many. At the same time, of course, we can never rule it out, as much as I would like to. I have previously put it in the public domain that two cases of potential civilian casualties are being investigated of the very large number of arms deployments in the Netherlands. The House of Representatives, and with that also your Chamber, will of course be informed about its results. I also want to say that reports of potential civilian casualties are taken very seriously by the coalition. CENTCOM conducts research and agrees with the Member State. We'll also do our own investigation and report the incident to the D.A.'s office. We don't exactly go ice cream in one night. At the same time, I am also saying that it is very difficult for us to carry out full and reliable investigations into civilian casualties in ISIS area, because we do not have boots on the ground there. We don't have any troops there that can do that for us. So it is really very complicated to carry out detailed battle damage assessment on the ground, on the ground, in ISIS area. Again, all reports of potential civilian casualties will be followed. Mr Van Rooijen asked about Obama's demand. I think I've gone into that in detail. I very much agree. Europe must take its responsibility. By far the majority of fireplaces are located close to our region. This also means that we need to position ourselves there as a convincing and reliable security partner. I think the Foreign Minister is still talking about Frontex. He nods, so that's right. Mr Ten Hoeve asked for joint support for the European defence industry. I very much agree. My colleague, Mr Kamp and I, are very keen on this, even during the Dutch Presidency. All too often, there is a lot of sanding there, because Member States have certain interests in employment. They really see the importance of a well-functioning defence market, but in the end they make a different assessment. That's what we're trying to break through. Commissioner Bieńkowska is also working on this. In all honesty, it's not exactly easy. The European Commission has indicated that it is working very hard on a European defence action plan that will enable European, but also small, medium-sized and large Dutch companies to access the different national markets. I'm really convinced it's in our best interest. I am not talking so much about the Dutch interest, but about the European interest. In the end, it is about how to fill in the security needs in the best possible and efficient way. You do that because of a well-functioning defence market. I have spoken about European defence cooperation. I think I've answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u152	I still have a few questions that haven't been answered. What is the delta between the investments and the commitments? What are the plans for the improvement of the DIP? That whole series of questions hasn't been answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u153	I did not quite understand the question about the flexibility of the DIP. I just didn't recognize it. The plan is in itself flexible enough, but I'm running out of money. I indicated this in the 2016 budget. The current budget, as included in the Defence Investment Plan, is inadequate for the number of replacement investments that we have currently engaged in. That is why choices need to be made over and over again. The DIP has actually become a permanent puzzle. We have to do something with that. When I took office, I found that there was no such thing as an end-of-year margin that could be taken to the next financial year. Of course, I've taken care of that. I'm still very happy about that. I think Mr Van Kappen is, too. I discussed this directly, in one of my first months, with my colleague from Finance, Minister Dijsselbloem. I said, of course, you couldn't, because that would be spending money to spend it. If you could take it with you and do it in order with some delay, the investment will not be lost, you will maintain the investment budget and you will provide a little more flexibility. The Minister of Finance has agreed to this. In addition, there was another problem with the investment budget. Until two years ago, I believe, operating deficits could be covered equally quickly from the investment budget. We have put a real limit on this, because that was one of the reasons why there are now deficits. That is why I have been saying all along that we need to look at these three strokes: basic readiness, operational support, investment. It can't be that you're filling operating deficits from the investment, because then you have another problem there. That problem didn't arise yesterday. It's been building up for years. I have said that it is now over and out and that we can only do so if the right poles are struck there. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u154	I understand. I'll settle for that. I do have one more question that I really want an answer to. I have asked to indicate to what extent the level of commitments made at present differs from the planning. What is the delta between the budget needed to maintain the armed forces and the available budget according to the multiannual budget? I think it is fine if you do not have that answer ready now, but I would like to have it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u155	I need to check my papers. I'm afraid I'm not ready right now. I'd like to get back to that. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u156	When will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u157	Written this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u158	Mr Van Kappen agrees with that. It'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. I thank all the senators for their generous input into this debate. A lot of questions have been asked. There's 130 of them. This confirms the importance of security policy and its topicality. I think that is quite understandable. I think a lot of Dutch people now have a feeling of insecurity and an unintended feeling about what is happening in the world. They see great developments coming their way and of course they also result in a lot of questions being asked here. These are questions about the relationship between internal and external policies. Then it's mostly about terrorism. How do we control migration in a way that meets our standards and values? So it's good to answer all these questions. Perhaps I could make one introductory remark and concentrate on answering the questions. Earlier this year, we had a long debate here on the role of Europe. Is Europe a continent that exports stability or imports instability? In any case, we would like the first and try to limit the second as much as possible. This means that, in terms of security, we must pay great attention to the ring of instability surrounding Europe. In this sense, I believe that Europe has indeed become a rather fragile continent, hence the importance of the transatlantic link and the discussions on strengthening European peace and security policy. The question was rightly raised here about what that means for defence expenditure, missions and security expenditure. I think that is the first element on which the Dutch Government is focusing in its policy: the ring of instability around Europe. The second element has to do with what we protect in Europe. These are, of course, standards and values and human rights interests. Many questions have rightly been asked to the government about this. How do we defend ourselves against terror, against ISIS and against the risks posed by identity politics worldwide? What does that mean for Europe and for the protection of our values? The third element is something that has been rightly pointed out by all the speakers: it is, of course, a matter of tough security, the military means, but that is not the only means. This must always be combined with political solutions. Further consideration should be given to future stability. Mr Koffeman made a number of comments on the great backgrounds of conflicts in the world. It is not very easy to explain exactly, but it certainly has to do with climate change. It has been an element that applies, for example, to Syria. This also applies to Mali, but that is certainly not the only reason why conflicts occur in those countries. Well, it's an element in that. The same applies to refugees affected by conflict and climate. That is why the third part is the future stability of our policies. It is clear that we are dealing with a very complex world, which is almost the cliché of the day, which means that there are a number of sliding panels, in which we have to determine our direction. We must certainly not only be idealism; we must mate it with realism. Not only soft power, but also hard power. One of the key points is that at a time when there are major differences of opinion in the world, in which the game of power and geopolitics have become more important and in which the Netherlands has become relatively smaller, the importance of a certain consensus in the Netherlands itself is important in order to be able to operate effectively. That is a factual finding, not a value judgment. However, the less confidence there is within countries in foreign policy or the less consensus there is on it, the more difficult it becomes to operate effectively internationally. A number of questions have been asked about the wide differences in understanding in the Netherlands about the future of European integration. We must try to find consensus on this. That is what the Dutch Government is proposing, even in the last month of the European Presidency, in which we have to deal, among other things, with a referendum which has to do with the possible exit of the United Kingdom and with a number of disintegrating elements relating to the EU. We have talked about this before; I am not going to repeat it now. I begin with a number of questions about the EU, limiting myself to what has not been said by the Minister of Defence. We are trying to ensure at the end of this month that the EU jointly presents a strategy and operationalises it as soon as possible. The terms mentioned by the Minister of Defence are, of course, those of the government. Not only should the EU hold a very large macro-story or deal with the small everyday problems, it should use its instruments in a very different way from 10, 15 years ago. We are dealing with other countries, which have become more powerful and with which we must negotiate. Consider the relationship with a country like Turkey, or with a country like Russia. These are not countries with which we agree on all fronts, they are countries with which we have major problems and to which we sometimes rightly ask questions about human rights. At the same time, however, they are countries that we cannot imagine geographically, for which we must agree on certain problems and interests that concern us. I hope that the security strategy will be adopted by the Union at the end of this month, so that we can implement it directly. There are military, economic and political means to this end. It will have to be a global strategy, I say to Mr Schrijver. Of course, the geopolitical influence of the Union is particularly evident in the EU's neighbouring countries, in that unstable half-circle from Marrakech to Murmansk. The Netherlands has made it clear that this strategy must stay away from false contradictions between supposed soft power and hard power. We can talk about it for a long time, but I really believe they're so connected that you can't practice one effectively without the other. We are also a continent that is often the largest donor and has a large trading power. In fact, there is no structure that exerts so much attraction on the rest of the world. The story is known: the further you are from the EU, the more popular it is. If you're getting any closer, everyone actually wants to join. When you're in it, you see most of the trouble. You can see that sentiment right now in the world. I can't get around that. It is essential that the whole package of translation of the Global Strategy into defence and security policy, such as deployment on missions, be a core element of it. Mr Kuiper said that the new EU Member States feel less involved in the UN's sustainable development goals, or have fewer global goals. I don't know if that's true, but that still has to prove itself. More and more countries are active in more modern forms of development cooperation. A country such as the Czech Republic is active in MINUSMA, Poland and the Baltic States are very active in Afghanistan, but it is true that those new Member States generally think a little more continental than the old six, which historically have experienced a different development, with colonies and so on, with all the advantages and disadvantages associated with it. He asked about the government's view on a number of CSDP recommendations made by the Centre for European Policy Studies last year. We support some of these recommendations. For example, the Netherlands belongs to that group of European Member States that believes that the share of common costs in military CSDP operations can increase. You do not fall into the trap of having to pay the person who participates, which we also see as a problem in NATO. The Netherlands also considers that, following the adoption of the global security strategy this summer, further operationalisation will be necessary in the area of a White Paper on Defence. That's part of the job. We are not convinced of the need for a permanent EU military headquarters in Brussels. This will be an expensive headquarters, which will also make duplications with NATO. Fortunately, the time of 10, 15 years ago has passed, in which it was either Atlantic or European. I think these two really need to reinforce each other. You have to think about it fairly pragmatically. Can we still negotiate seriously, for example with regard to TTIP? Yeah, that's the case, that's what happens every day. The aim is to get the best possible agreement for the Netherlands. If it is a mixed agreement, as the Netherlands suggests, a referendum is indeed possible in the end. To this end, the negotiations on TTIP must first be concluded. The approval procedure must then be followed at European level and in the Netherlands. As is well known, only after First and Second Chambers could possibly agree a referendum is possible. The cabinet is not about that, that is to the Dutch people. I assume that the final referendum will be evaluated. It will undoubtedly address the question of whether multilateral agreements should apply in the light of experience so far. The Dutch Government has no opinion on this. I believe that such a treaty should be referendable. We do not notice that this would harm our negotiating position in TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u160	It's good to hear you don't notice. It would be too daring to ask you to pay close attention once again, because in general that type of negotiation does matter when you can give something and take something. Giving will be difficult when you have the uncertainty in the back of your hand, which we have just had through a referendum which is also concerned with international treaties. You say: we are going to evaluate that. It is interesting to know in what timeframe this will take place and whether this may have consequences for the current international negotiations, which may also lead to creative rifts and referenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u161	On your first point, I would like to say that, of course, we are paying close attention to that. It's hard to tell if that weakens our position. Some say it could even strengthen our position, because there is also a feeling that others are about it. In any case, everyone can have their own opinion on being referendable to multilateral treaties. It does not make it easy for the Netherlands or for the Dutch government. So there are complications there. However, the Dutch Government is not about a law passed by Parliament. As well as helping to implement that referendum, we have now taken a position on the outcome of that referendum. In the light of the questions that have been asked, I cannot give any further answers. It has been discussed in the House of Representatives and we have been given the opportunity to negotiate it with the European allies at least until the summer. Mr Knapen will agree with me that it is not useful to do so publicly if you want to make your position as strong as possible. Of course, we will come back to these Chambers, depending on our final position on whether or not to table a repeal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u162	I have a supplementary question. It is possible that, as part of such an evaluation with the Chamber, in this case initially with the House of Representatives, you will exchange the experience you have gained, and finally this is something new. It is also possible for you to say: we operate in a number of areas in a way that we find, in retrospect, that this element in the referendum law was not such a good idea. That's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u163	It could be. This could be the result of such an evaluation, which is certainly done not only by the government, but also by the First and Second Chambers. I wouldn't want to get ahead of it, but if you're doing an evaluation, nothing's out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u164	When I hear this, I suddenly have to remember that the whole fiscal policy is avoiding referenda. The question is legitimate whether the whole 'foreign treaties' are not of such a separate order, a kind of status separate, that you might have to consider for the future whether having treaties subject to referendums is a good and balanced state law thing. In other words, any cabinet, any cabinet, can make proposals to change the referendum law. A cabinet does not have to wait for another cabinet to know what is found in the Chamber, because it must also operate internationally as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u165	Sure, you're right. Now that we have the result as part of the outcome of an existing referendum law and no decision has been taken on it, we do not think it is the right time to say: the government does not think it is a very pleasant outcome, and that is what we have to say, and that is why we are now going to change the law. An evaluation has been carried out, also on the other side, and it is of course open to everyone to express a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u166	I did not mean it at all, but I think it is an appropriate matter to do it, in view of the forthcoming elections and the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u167	I think it will indeed become part of political debate. You asked me, Mr Van Rooijen, about a number of elements of interest rate policy and the Stability and Growth Pact. I will reply briefly, because the debate is really about the international security debate. Everything is of course connected, I agree with you directly. Let me start by saying that I do not share the view that the Stability and Growth Pact is not working. The deficit for the Eurozone decreased from 3.7% in 2012 to 1.9% this year. Several Member States have left the excessive deficit procedure and the forthcoming Ecofin Council also discusses the dismissal from the excessive deficit procedure for Ireland, Cyprus and Slovenia. A huge amount of progress is being made. It is right that there are many questions at the same time. The Netherlands also took part in the informal Ecofin Council. The SGP has become unpredictable and complex. There is also criticism of the possible political application of the rules by the European Commission. This is also due to the nature of the rules. There are many exceptions and there is a lot of room for interpretation. However, the Commission must respect the limits of the Pact and apply it in a predictable way, so that there is no difference between the big boys and the little boys, so to speak. You know the debate on Portugal and Spain, but I am not going to discuss it in the light of this debate. We have talked about interest rate policy before. I am aware of your criticism of the European Central Bank. Interest rates are currently historically at an exceptionally low level. At the same time, we can see that interest rates in developed economies have been falling since the 1980s, obviously with fluctuations, but there is a very clear trend. The interest rate is determined by demand and supply of money on the financial markets. In these markets, the ECB is indeed a player and so it also influences interest rates. However, the ECB is not alone in influencing interest rates. I would like to end this discussion there, because we also discussed it in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u168	I was not so much concerned with the Minister finding that it was my opinion; it does not matter. This afternoon, I referred in detail to Minister Schulzble. He's the one closest to that file, isn't he? He was extremely critical of his American colleague Lee in April, but he did so last week during an interview with many financial journalists. He actually said that this policy should stop. I touched on this this afternoon, because for the first time it establishes a link between ECB policy, enlarged monetary policy and populism. He stressed what this could do for the population and the consequences it could have for the elections, the rulership of countries and of Europe, the fight against terrorism, and refugee policy. That's very fundamental. Schaüble is someone who has been with us for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u169	I do not share that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u170	What is your question, Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u171	My question is whether the Minister would like to respond to the comments made by the German Finance Minister, Mr Schaulble, who is indisputably critical of the European Central Bank, albeit indirectly as I put it this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u172	I can only say that, of course, that is the competence of Mr Dijsselbloem. As far as I can tell, this obviously means respect for the independence of the European Central Bank. That is essential, it is not something we are somehow undermining. I am not saying that you are undermining. Discussion is possible about the mix of economic policies in Europe and whether this should no longer be a combination of monetary policy, fiscal policy and reform. If you can balance these three together, Europe's growth potential could increase even further. I don't think the thesis is very strong. You can claim that populism comes from everywhere, but I think it's very digital to say that Draghi's interest rate policy is now the cause of populism. I think that's what caused what I just said. They wanted to keep the euro and Draghi made certain choices, which have also worked out some very positive aspects. It doesn't suit me here to go too deep. I do not share the digital relationship between the monetary policy of the European Central Bank and populism. A number of comments on the relationship with migration. Although the shadows are sometimes present between them, it is important to distinguish between economic migrants and those fleeing terror and misery. Furthermore, international asylum policy and our relations with Turkey and with countries on the south flank, in particular Libya, are important. Mr Schrijver asked a question about the legal status of the agreement with Turkey. He asked if countries are bound by the statement. The cabinet considers that the content and form of the declaration show that it is not an agreement or treaty between the European Union and Turkey. The declaration expresses a series of political agreements between the EU and Turkey. Member States are therefore not legally bound by this. Of course, it is important that all Member States make an active contribution to ensuring that the agreements are implemented successfully. Our role as President of the Council of the European Union is to be directly and always pursue it. Of course we do that with the other Member States, but it is also very important that we do so in a certain 'concert' with the European Commission and Parliament. Only in that collective can you achieve that complex deal, regardless of how you stand in it. As is well known, the agreement consists of a number of elements. The agreement consists of a number of obligations on the part of Turkey, a number of obligations on the part of Greece, a number of elements of solidarity and resettlement, and a legal path of migration from Turkey. The declaration in itself has the support of all Member States, although not legally binding. We have seen that this has actually led to major changes at sea. In this sense, it is an improvement in the area of human rights, because there are far fewer people dying at sea. At the same time, certain aspects of implementation remain important, because we want to comply with international law, including the right of asylum. This means that the number of people who have been sent back so far is relatively small. This is because people also have to apply for asylum individually and because there are still a number of technical and legal issues that are currently in the process of resolving them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u173	I'd still like to hear what it is now. At the beginning of his answer to my question, the Minister said it was a statement. It's known as a deal. In the last part of his speech, however, the Minister used the word "agreement" several times. That makes a difference, doesn't it? I would probably have referred to it as a framework agreement, including more specific agreements. I would say that it is actually a sort of list of agreements, and I think that list is made up of 14 A4s, with signatures, though. It makes a difference whether it is merely a statement or whether it is an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u174	Maybe I didn't make myself clear. I thought I said it's a statement, but not an agreement or a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u175	Later, you used the word "agreement." You also said that the Member States are bound by it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u176	No, I said they're politically tied to it, but not legally. That is the crux of the matter. It really is not an agreement and it is not a treaty. It's an explanation. Maybe you can write that with a capital V. I thought I had just made it clear that Member States are not legally bound by this, but it is obviously important that they make an active contribution. It is the President's role to strengthen that politically. Of course, Turkey plays a crucial role in this. Mr Van Dijk asked why Turkey should become a member of the European Union. There is a whole discussion in itself about whether you think so or not. It's a candidate country. We must be very concerned about a number of elements in Turkey. I think we've shared it here before. Unfortunately, we see every day that they are still present. Think of the freedom of the press and the situation in South-East Turkey. The Netherlands is very concerned about this. We are therefore also giving priority to the opening of chapters 23 and 24 of the rule of law. That's the point. That should be the starting point for discussions, although everyone sees that elements such as freedom of the press indicate a rhythm and show whether Turkey is getting closer to Europe or not. We have also been asked about the depoliticisation of the refugee issue. To be honest, we're not quite in control of that. After all, it cannot prevent politicians from making statements that affect the debate. It is perhaps one of the most politicised debates. When it comes to Turkish politicians, accession, visa liberalisation or a Slovak Prime Minister saying that there is no place for Islam in Slovakia, it will soon be a political debate. I do think that we should keep it as businesslike as possible, although of course there are political aspects to it because it intervenes very directly, not only in the lives of refugees and economic migrants, but also in the lives of people in our society who have to take a position on how they feel about it. That's a stress test for all societies. That is why it is so important that we reach consensus on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u177	Perhaps I am mistaken, but the Minister kept looking at me, while I did not ask these questions about depoliticisation at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u178	I was not looking at Mr Van Dijk either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u179	Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u180	There are these commercials about new glasses... but at least I apologize if I've looked that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u181	Well, at least you're not moping.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u182	I'm just gonna keep my glasses up. The Minister said that at least fewer refugees are arriving on boats and that there are fewer drownings. That was the picture for a while, but if we have to believe the messages, I'm gonna take a swing at the arm, because it's just media reports. Over the past week, almost 1,000 people drowned, but then on another route. That sad number is mentioned. The feeling of mopping with the tap open or the feeling that the waterbed effect is going to occur somewhere else when you press here, we can't quite get away. Whatever you think of the Turkey deal, whether it's legally sound or not, and however you want to interpret it, the problem doesn't seem to be solved. My group continues to be very concerned about this. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u183	I was really concerned about the relationship between the European Union and Turkey in the light of the flow of refugees that went through Turkey to Europe. That problem is far from being solved, because the root of the problem is not at all between Turkey and the European Union. That's part of it. The core lies, of course, in the dramatic bloodshed in Syria. We'll come back later on to political questions like, "What's up with that?" And "what about the peace process; does it actually exist?" In any case, there is a dramatic lack of protection of human lives there. There is no such thing as humanitarian protection. Today it turned out again that it is difficult to get humanitarian droppings to Syria. We've been working on that until tonight. The core is the number of displaced persons within Syria and beyond and the way in which that journey was carried out. There is then a debate on how far Lebanon, Jordan and other countries in a very difficult situation can help. This room has asked for that, too. Another aspect is that waterbed effect. There's actually no waterbed effect with Libya right now. There is now an autonomous stream that mainly comes from West Africa, from countries such as Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana and Gambia. That stream is moving through Niger and Libya towards Europe. We only see a certain waterbed effect through Egypt. Like this Chamber, I am very concerned about that. For the European Union, for investment in the European Union and for the Presidency, it is precisely the control of these refugee flows that is important, because they not only give a huge premium to the smugglers of human beings in Africa and at sea. You see how those people with a small boat are sent to the sea to still have a chance to get to the other side. Perhaps we cannot do something similar with Libya as with Turkey. In Libya, all diplomacy is aimed at supporting the new government. I was there three weeks ago myself. It's an extremely fragile process. At the same time, something really needs to be done about the coastguard in Libya's waters. The UN Security Council will have to act. Europe will therefore have to avoid this human misery very quickly. I see this as one of our major tasks in the last month of the Presidency. That is not a simple task, but there is not so much a waterbed effect. This has really to do with the way you put this under control, including through agreements with countries in West Africa that have to do with beautiful things, from the long-term things, youth unemployment and development cooperation to cooperation in biometric passports, border control and tackling smuggling routes, but also with return. This concerns almost all people who are economic migrants. There are some refugees from a number of difficult areas such as Eritrea, but in general they are economic migrants and they cannot stay in the Netherlands or in Europe. That means you've got to have a pretty big return policy. Otherwise, the system won't work. Those are the two major challenges now. The core will be to ensure that the deal between Greece, Turkey and Europe continues to work. I remain strongly in favour of this. Whatever we think of the situation in Turkey, no migrant will benefit if we do not continue to control this flow under international law. Then there is the element of the conflict in Syria itself. This also applies to Iraq and parts of Afghanistan. The other element is the south flank. I'd like to keep it separate for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u184	Mr Lintmeijer, would you like to ask a further question about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u185	I had a further question in my head, but the Minister answered it to a large extent. It is good to emphasise that the Turkey deal is a deal in itself. I'll go along with the reasoning about the waterbed. It's autonomous streams that come from somewhere else. That's for sure. My main point is that I want to focus the attention of the EU and the Cabinet on the humanitarian crisis that is now manifesting in many places and to focus policy on everything necessary to prevent that humanitarian crisis from escalating. I heard the Minister say words about this that come close to our point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u186	There are a lot of elements in that that have to do with an active foreign policy. A peace mission in Mali has to do with this indirectly but also, in fact, directly. It is not a mission that stops migration, but it is on a migration route and it itself contributes to stability in that region. That's an element of security. The second is an active policy in the EU on the work of the Navy. Cooperation with the Coast Guard is essential. The third is, if I may say so politically, that the ridicule of humanitarian aid and development cooperation, which we have also seen in this country, has certainly not helped. Now everyone says: yes, there must be a lot more money. It's also anticipating a situation. A country like Lebanon sits so far when it comes to the huge numbers of refugees it has. That's about one in three now. At the same time, this is a much more fragile economic and political structure. You have to work together ingeniously. This is about how they can get mixed loans, how a compact is being concluded with the EU and how cooperation is being carried out in the area of migration. It is a package which, as far as I am concerned, needs to be strengthened every day. There's work to be done. That is finance as a Presidency, but it is also cooperation with those countries. That's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u187	I have a quick question. The Minister mentioned what I would call economic migration from sub-Saharan African countries, which we have seen in the last few weeks with the more beautiful weather in massive form. Last week 13,000 from Libya to Europe. Given the problem of receiving real refugees from Syria well for Turkey and Greece, I wonder whether it is extremely tragic that, given the limited reception capacity, there will be a new stream of people who are not actually genuine refugees, which could cause the real refugees from the Syria region to get into trouble in the limited reception capacity. All the more reason to be very critical of the flow of economic migration from sub-Saharan Africa, because they are not refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u188	I agree. You can understand that they seek their salvation elsewhere for all kinds of reasons, but in the matter of how you open and close borders and at the same time you adhere to international law and want to provide shelter for the people who have the most difficulty, that means that other people will indeed have to return. That is why it is incredibly important that these Valetta Partnership Agreements be implemented more quickly. That is at the heart of what we are discussing here tonight, including the role of Europe. That's where Europe comes in. We can't do that alone. Nor can you close national borders, as some people find. You're gonna have to put a dent in a pack of butter together. You'll also have to give the instruments. They do not have to be major new European institutions. It's not about a federal dream. It is about working actively, financially, politically and militaryly, to effectively deal with the current threat to our societies. I do not mean by that that people threaten us, but by the uncontrolled nature of this and the lack of unity in what we do about it. That is what the Presidency, like many other countries, is aiming for. I agree with Mr Knapen that sometimes this is too slow. Of course, he himself has a lot of experience in Europe. I call a European border guard. We are going from a Europe that was a legislative machine, focused on very different things, such as an internal market, an area of freedom and all things that are essential for the economy of our countries, to something where political results need to be achieved much faster. That requires a very different way of working. People rightly criticise the European Union in this respect. It must suddenly change from a situation of relative security at a time when geopolitical and economic crises are playing a somewhat less role to a time when results need to be achieved quickly. Then with the transaction costs of 28, it is something different than with 6 or 12. We must also be careful that we do not have some kind of pessimism that Europe cannot do that. We're gonna have to see that. We're being tested now that it's getting difficult. I do see that, although you can discuss the content of the policy, even when it comes to the euro, the sanctions against Russia or this point, we have still come out. That is what needs to be done now: investing in understanding each other's interests as national states, but working together where we share enormous challenges that directly relate to our sovereignty and our way of working together and that affect them. Then I come to the issue of the treaty. There are two basic principles to the UN Refugee Convention. I believe that is what Mr Schrijver asked me to do. The UN Refugee Convention does not concern economic migrants, because it is a global treaty. That is indeed the case. For your explanation, I would like to make the following point. The Refugee Convention covers refugees, as the title indicates. According to the Convention, refugees are, in summary, persons who have fled from well-founded fears of persecution for race, religion, nationality, belonging to a particular social group or political belief. Of course, economic migrants are not included. The second principle is the scope of the Convention. To this end, the Convention gives States that are parties the choice of applying it only to refugees from Europe or also to refugees outside Europe. In 1967, a protocol to the Convention was established to make its scope global in principle. However, the protocol leaves open the possibility of maintaining the geographical limitation if one so wishes. A handful of countries have made use of the possibility of geographical limitation. The Dutch Government did not do that. Of course, in this situation, when it comes to cooperation with Turkey, it is also our duty to point out to the Member States that, in the field of relocation and resettlement, and also in the work of voluntary humanitarian admission schemes based on the principles of solidarity and shared responsibility, action must now be taken. This is also an element of the Turkey agreement which must work. It is protecting external borders, it is possible on the basis of principles where that is right to send people back to Turkey, but there is also that other element, because otherwise it does not turn around, so to speak. Then I come to a number of questions that have to do with instability in the east. I would like to be a little shorter on this because the Minister of Defence has discussed the military-strategic issues in detail. Of course, I share her views on Wales and the need to keep the security expenditure and the trend that has been reversed in this cabinet. I would point out, however, that this must be in the right balance when it comes to completion and missions. I think that is what the Commissioner has asked for. Of course, you can only carry out missions if it is also possible to do so. At the same time, it must be set up in such a way as to make it possible to do so in terms of priority, division of tasks and standardisation. I thought it was Mr Knapen who had asked me about the French step to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u189	The Minister mentioned the Refugee Convention and said that the Netherlands did not use the geographical restriction. What was the reason for that? Why didn't they use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u190	Because for us the refugee problem is in fact a global problem and, as far as I am concerned, needs to be solved globally; that is the other side of the same coin. This means that I agree that it is not just Turkey or Europe's responsibility. So if we go to the United Nations in September, we are also talking about the UNHCR, which distributes people, so to speak, towards Canada, the United States and the Gulf States. So I think it is a global problem. There are 60 million refugees in the world. The Netherlands cannot escape this either. That means that, as far as we are concerned, you should not restrict that geographically. I come to the French step to call in Article 42.7 after the terrible attacks. We have assessed this positively in itself. There was a major attack on an EU partner. In this context, it is logical that France should turn to its European partners for help. I believe that the honourable Member has also mentioned Rule 42.7. I do not see it as an undermining of NATO, but as a welcome addition. I am listening to all Members, in different forms and content, say that it is clear that Europe will simply have to stop its own pants. This applies to external expenditure, such as development cooperation, we do so in this area as well as in the military, political and security aspects. That has to do with two things. I believe that Mr Van Kappen has rightly spoken about this extensively. I think the transatlantic bond is rather essential right now. We will have to reconfirm it at a time when we have become so vulnerable. We are, of course, aware at the same time that this also depends on the way in which the security policy situation in the United States is assessed. That is also quite determined by domestic politics. It also depends on the election results there. I can see that at the moment the United States is focusing more on Europe, despite the reset they wanted with the Russian Federation and despite the so-called 'pivot' towards Asia, where there is, of course, a huge problem in the South China Sea. I am therefore also pleased that the Netherlands has given a serious answer to the possibility of receiving American troops here, but it is important that this is also considered very seriously from the Netherlands. Maybe we should go to a renewal of that. Mr Van Kappen spoke about the Charter of Paris. I think that it is almost impossible in the current setting, or perhaps I should say that it is not realistic to work directly on a successor. We saw the same thing with the Helsinki +40. However, Mr Van Kappen has a point. You're gonna have to have a reset at that point, too. It's not NATO of 1949. Nor is it the NATO of the Cold War. It is NATO for which Article 5 has once again become very important, in the light of the hybrid threats, as Mr Van Kappen rightly said, and not of the Cold War. In the mutual relations you have to make good agreements about that. I'll share that. I also understand the criticism of the Americans. I do not have to agree on all points. Mr Van Kappen rightly said that this is not just about the level of expenditure. If you look at how many people we actually have in the army in Europe and how much equipment, we can organize ourselves incredibly much better than we do now. However, we must be prepared to shape this cooperation in Europe. Let us be honest: in our country, too, there are quite a number of political forces that are opposed to this. That is why I say that the consensus, including in my own country, is important for the effectiveness of foreign policy. In any case, the position of the Dutch Government is to make that very serious. The same applies to what Mr Knapen said about the broad involvement and hence the burden-sharing of European countries on missions. This broad involvement can be promoted by sharing more costs, such as strategic transport, which is always a problem. The Netherlands is in favour of this. We are also very actively engaged in this contribution, almost daily, I would like to say. We are working with the European Foreign and Defence Ministers and with DPKO to ensure that they not only say that they want to do something, but that they actually do something. You can now see that Scandinavian countries and Italy are slowly but surely making their return to peacekeeping operations. I'll say something about that later. We very much agree on the hybrid nature of the current threat. I think it's okay to name that. So we are not in an old-fashioned geopolitical struggle of spheres of influence like that used to be in the nineteenth century or in a cold war as it existed in the twentieth century. We are in a situation where geopolitics and power are back, but also where identity and soft power are back. It is therefore necessary, in the context of a hybrid threat, that NATO and the European Union cooperate much more effectively. There was enormous investment in this during the last NATO ministerial meeting of the Foreign Ministers. It is also about political direction. Because what exactly is a hybrid threat? There is no doubt that a lot of books have been written on this subject, but of course it is a question of when it will become something with regard to Article 5. So how are military and political decisions to be taken? What are we doing about strategic communication? Do we do that differently than "the other side"? The Dutch government has now decided to actively support a project concerning free news garage in the Russian language. That is certainly not the same as counterpropaganda, because we are not of that kind. We are in favour of promoting pluralism. As far as the history of dealing with Russia is concerned, given the time, I will mention a few key words, because that subject obviously requires a debate that we would be working on for a while. I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that I always find this a very difficult discussion. Is it actually a bit the West's fault that the Russians suddenly feel surrounded and act so aggressively towards Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine? I think that every country that has been a great power and has been reduced has a huge stress factor in it. We have seen this, in a very different form, in decolonization in our country and in the United Kingdom. I understand the political psychology of what's happening in the Russian Federation. I also understand how this is used and abused. I also understand that Putin is using that element to become increasingly autocratic and to destroy every democratic power and every counter-play in the Russian Federation. This makes it increasingly difficult to establish political contacts, including with parliaments. Frankly, I do not have an answer to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. I would like the parliaments to speak with each other. The Netherlands is also really for the fist and the open hand. I think that's gonna work. I've said that here before. We should not fall into the trap of just the military response on the grounds of someone acting so authoritarianly. That's a history lesson, too. But you're not gonna have to be a crazy hen either. Taking advantage of another's weakness is exactly what Putin is doing. So you also have to do something about the reinsurance of your own policies. We are talking about Article 5, about the rotating troops in Eastern Europe. That's completely by the book. We have also insisted on this, so that it continues to fall within the rules of the NATO-Russia Council and does not go beyond that. We also do not want to project aggressive posture. That's not the point at all. The point is that we should not mirror each other, but have a good mix with the assurance of our own safety. I understand very well that is what the Baltic States want. They get intimidated every day. Military planes fly over them every day. So that means that the military element is really part of it, whether you like it or not. We have to do that seriously. That's a lot different than mirroring your policy. I believe that Mr Van Kappen has rightly said a number of things about the mix. I shall come back to the nuclear aspect, which, of course, is a very dangerous component in itself. I think the combination of fist and open hand is important. The Netherlands is for conversations with the Russians; it is not a business as usual. When we talk about Syria, about the Middle East, about Libya and about anti-terrorism, we need Russia right away. It was never the case that the NATO countries did not want to talk to Russia. When it came to the association agreement with Ukraine, even the provisional operation was postponed for a year to see if it was still possible to link Russia's trade relations with its surroundings and the trade relations that would result from the association agreement. I think you have to be clear about some things. At a time when an increasingly authoritarian country is violating the territorial integrity of another country and then using violence in it, it cannot be that you do not take action against it. This has mainly been done through economic sanctions. You will not hear this minister say that economic sanctions are the same as policy vis-à-vis the Russian Federation. It's an element of it. And I hope that there will be a willingness to tackle that outstretched hand that is there in relation to the Minsk agreement and to ensure that fair elections are held in the eastern part of Ukraine, so that the sovereignty of that country can actually be respected again. But before that, of course, it is impossible for us to say: that is a pity, but we simply continue as if it is business as usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u191	I would like to return to the rotating troops to which the Minister referred in his reply. He says they're not against the rules. I assume he's referring to the NATO Russian Founding Act. I understand that, but you can distinguish between the legal text and what it actually means. What is de facto the material difference between permanent deployment of troops, which would indeed be contrary to those rules, and rotating troops, but on an ongoing basis? The latter is now the subject of discussion. NATO itself speaks of permanent rotational presence. What is the material difference now? And the follow-up question is: to what extent do we make sense of this? That's not even the question of whether it's dejure in conflict with the NATO Russian Founding Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u192	The first is important, because it also shows on the Russian side that it should not fall into just us-side thinking, but should take seriously what has been agreed. That's a sign of good will, you could say in that sense. If you rotate it, you can also lift it more easily than if you make it semipermanent. But it's a gradual difference. I agree directly with you on that. Is it wise? My answer is certainly yes to that. I believe that the legitimate security feelings of the countries involved are directly threatened by the sense, in my view, that any risk that may have occurred in Ukraine can very easily be repeated without response within NATO if those forces are not much closer to where that can happen. I therefore believe that this is a very legitimate security requirement. I also welcome the fact that the Netherlands is participating in this. On the other hand, I am on all kinds of fronts for cooperation with Russia. That's not easy. I think this could be much better in a number of areas. I also do not understand where this unwillingness on the Russian side comes from. This is also reflected in the very high risks that are attached to the over-NATO territory flying without transponders, whether legal or not. At some point that goes wrong and you have to work with each other. I would be very much in favour of taking the arms control agenda seriously again. I have also argued for this in NATO. This does not mean that we must do exactly the same thing as the Russians, however much I respect Mr Van Kappen and share his analysis of the nuclear problem. I'll be right back. We do not have to disarm nuclearly one-sidedly; I am opposed to that, but I do not believe that the instrumentalisation of the tactical nuclear weapon, as proposed in the Russian publications and propaganda, will strengthen the sense of security of the countries we are talking about. As far as I am concerned, the arms control of tactical nuclear weapons is at the top of the agenda, but unfortunately this has always been rejected by the Russian Federation. I think we should go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u193	The Minister and I do not agree on the rotating troops. However, we can agree on the need for an attempt to strengthen dialogue with Russia. In that light, I have another question about the current sanctions, to which the Minister referred. The German Foreign Minister pointed out today or yesterday the risks of these sanctions. In fact, it can force a country to its knees economically. He pointed out that this could not be the intention and that it could never be an instrument to destroy an economy. What does the Minister think of these comments made by his fellow minister in Germany, the risks associated with these sanctions and the effectiveness of the current sanctions policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u194	In my view, there are two elements to it. Firstly, Mr Van Apeldoorn rightly points out that sanctions also have humanitarian consequences. However, he represents a group which, in many situations, is very much in favour of sanctions, not in this case, but in a lot of other cases. I always think you should watch out for sanctions, especially in a globalised world. You can't force a population to its knees. However, these sanctions are not, of course, very general sanctions. They are very focused on certain sectors and certain people. They do intervene in the Russian economy. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. This choice doesn't please anyone, but is an alternative to much more serious means and has influence to my taste, although it's always a bit unproven. After all, you can never see in reality what the behavior would have been if you hadn't done something. In addition, the Russian economy is threatened by quite different factors, such as the price of oil, the total non-widening of the economic base and the further autocracy in that country. I think it is important to show that if you continue this behaviour, then we will continue with these sanctions. If you, and indeed the Ukrainian Government, are prepared to comply with what is needed for stability and peace, and therefore the prosperity of many people, do not forget the people of Ukraine, then we will not continue with these sanctions. So, in principle, we are talking about the Minsk agreements. That's what they're related to. I am in favour of that. As long as the implementation of the Minsk agreements is not complied with, I believe that the current sanctions should continue, as far as I am concerned, for six months. They shouldn't go on forever. I hope that these sanctions can be lifted at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u195	I very much agree with the Minister on this, but I would like to take back to his statement on Russia at the very beginning of this block. He said he didn't know why Russia started so aggressively against Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine. The aggression against Ukraine has arisen very recently after a very long period in which bad relations have escalated. The beginning of what has happened in Moldova and Georgia dates back to a period when relations were not so bad at all. Where, according to the Minister, is the beginning of what happened there? Is that Russia's will to act aggressively there, or is that rather the unrest among the people living there about the situation that arose after the break-up of the Soviet Union? They ended up somewhere they apparently didn't want to be. Isn't that the real background to those elements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u196	I think I said at the beginning that when a colonial empire, which was actually the Soviet Union, falls apart for all kinds of reasons and choices are made in terms of national sovereignty, there is unrest and there are people who are out of the boat. The successor states therefore have a responsibility to deal with this in accordance with the rules that we also consider important. It is not about saying that one camp was wrong and the other did nothing, but I would point out that you will cross another line once you use military means to do de facto country picking. That's what happened. Think of South Ossetia. All you have to do is walk around. I've been there twice. The same goes for Abkhazia. In any case, you must be inclined to say: I am no longer concerned with the reorganization of my empire, no, it is about trying to reach agreement and cooperation that can lead to a more peaceful relationship. That is, of course, quite different from using it with drum roll or exploiting it. I do not want to compare it with the 1930s, but you have always had the impression that it was said: you must come back into the realm and if you do not, we will do it with military means or with intimidation. In my view, it is a problem for the international legal order. When things like that happen, she has to react. As I said, this does not mean that the Russians are our enemy, on the contrary, and that we are back in the Cold War, on the contrary, but that sanctions are good in themselves and that we have to take into account the psychology of the situation there. That alone does not lead me to believe that we should step away from what we do, namely react through, if you like, fist and open hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u197	I agree with the latter, but I do not know whether the will has played a role in getting everyone back into the realm just like in the thirties. The real military intervention has, of course, only come later. In the beginning, peoples themselves rebelled against their new rule in those states. Those peoples have done so. Then the Russians supported them, and in the long run also with clear military means. There is a form of escalation in the course of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u198	Mr Ten Hoeve, can you be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u199	What happened in Ossetia only happened after a great deal had been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u200	History is always complex. There's always a lot ahead of actual developments. We don't live in a time when one is wrong and the other is good. That would make it much easier. I am happy to agree with you on that. The type of conflict of this time has a lot to do with identity and much less with ideology, although the "poorisation" of some influences plays a role in this. If, apart from that, you speak of conflicts of identity, you will always have to look at peaceful solutions. I would like to agree with you that this does not mean that there is a great culprit. I don't see it that way. I say that we have certain principles to adhere to in accordance with the rules of the game of identity policy. If they are violated, you must at least respond to them in order to prevent them from repeating themselves in this way. That's why it goes more. However, I would like to agree with Mr Ten Hoeve that we are living in a time when terms such as good and bad do not help. We sometimes think countries are good or bad: Turkey is bad, Saudi Arabia is bad, the Netherlands is good, Denmark is good, Russia is half good, so that does not help. The point is that we in this world will have to operate together here and there. At the same time, you must adhere to certain standards and values, within which you define your policy. I think we can find each other in this. One question that I could put to it is that of the role of the Russian Federation in Syria. You can have all kinds of theories about how this happened and who's wrong or right. However, I would point out that Russian intervention in Syria is at least ambivalent. I believe that Mr Van Kappen also asked for this. Russia's military actions in Syria have undoubtedly done a great deal of damage. They've cost a lot of lives; really a lot. There are immediate targets that are of a humanitarian nature. Under the guise of counter-terrorism, for the same purpose, we are there too, and Russian bombings are victims of moderate opposition and civilians. The air strikes against civilians in Idlib last night are a new low. That's the biggest bombing since the partial armistice in February. I can't close my eyes to that. That does not mean that suddenly everyone on the other side of that conflict is good. The Russian Federation has intervened for a number of reasons. First, to save their client, President Assad. Secondly, because Russia wanted to contribute to the fight against terror. Thirdly, because Russia itself has interests in that region. Some of those elements are more legitimate than others. My conclusion is that we need Russia very much in the International Syria Support Group. That's possible, too. They also asked what was happening in the International Syria Support Group. That group has an interesting character in the light of the discussion we just had. Actually, it's a little old-fashioned. You have the Russians and the Americans, who, in a sense, must try to force the actors and the countries on which they have influence, because that is of course not true at all for all opposition groups, Iran or Saudi Arabia, in the direction of a cease-fire. That is the only solution to put that terrible misery in Syria under control. That's specific to that International Syria Support Group. Let's give that the next characterization. It's incredibly important that that group exists. It is not enough and a lot of people in Syria still have nothing to gain from it, but the amount of violence has actually decreased and is huge compared to February, but it is still huge. The question is whether this is sustainable. The Dutch or European role is trying to increase its retention. It has been said that in the region military resources are sometimes more normal than diplomacy. I don't think this is true. We have indeed had a war there that has become sectarian by regional groups and superpowers that have mixed up in it. This has led to an extremely complex conflict. However, the diplomatic path is the only way that can provide a solution in the end. We seek to understand that there can be a different outcome than the total destruction of Syria. That is a struggle: the total destruction versus a positive development in the conflict. I think the signals are bad in the last few days; let there be no misunderstanding about that. The ceasefire is increasingly being violated. If you want to depoliticize something, that's humanitarian access. I'm very curious. Is the deadline of June 1st to reach people who simply have no food, also a red line for the international community? If you are too cynical about the humanitarian part of the island, which I do not hope to do, then there is another direct European interest, namely the fact that otherwise more people will leave the country, however tragic that may be. That's what the International Syria Support Group should focus on. That is why I agree with the fact that the Netherlands is involved. We are among them because we have this mix of instruments. Of course, we're not just gonna bomb ISIS out of there. The bombing is an element of a strategy agreed by the Dutch Government. The United Nations has said that you must have a double strategy. You have to hold the peace talks, but at the same time we can't wait to fight ISIS. That is what the United Nations resolutions say. At the supply lines to Fallujah and other cities in Iraq, ISIS is currently placing booby traps that kill masses of people. I don't think it's gonna be a problem to bomb those supply lines. That has nothing to do with the Iraq war or the bombing of Muslims. That has to do with protecting people. There's always risks, but if that's the only strategy, it's gonna stop fast. So we are also working on stabilisation and support for the third road that still exists somewhat in Syria. The Dutch Government is very active in humanitarian aid and droppings, and in the negotiations. The negotiations are, of course, much more complicated than what is only happening in Geneva. Because the conflict has lasted for so long, forgive me for that word, and many forces must be brought together. That's the only task we have now. We will work hard to do that. The biggest problem at the moment is what is happening in Syria and the countries around it; there are a lot of them, but this is the biggest problem. Through all of these means, we must try to get that under control. We cannot do that for them; let there be no misunderstanding. That is why there are restrictions on the boots on the ground and the Western influence. However, the conflict in Syria has so many sides that you cannot stand on the sidelines there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u201	May I ask how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u202	I can do it a little faster. I see your comment as a signal that I need to do it a little faster. I'm thinking 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u203	That would be wonderful. I'm gonna take a look at the second term, too, you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u204	I totally get that. With regard to the eastern flank, I would like to refer to the task force for ballistic missile defense. I think the Secretary of Defense has already said a lot about the CBRN threat. I am quite prepared to inform Mr Van Kappen about this, possibly by letter. It's an important threat. I see that point, too. He also talked about synthetic biology. These are all important elements. It takes some time to go into this in depth, but I am very willing to do so. I agree with him that the international framework for preventing the use of CBRN resources by non-state actors has been greatly strengthened. We need to make the recommendations relating to scientific technological and commercial developments politically. In response to Mr Van Dijk, I say that there are no radiological or nuclear weapons in Iraq and Syria. It must be avoided that materials to make them fall into the hands of terrorists. There is a worldwide effort to replace nuclear material suitable for weapons with low-enriched uranium, which cannot be used for that purpose. Nuclear material is heavily secured, including in Iraq and Syria. This is an obligation arising from the newly amended Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material. Radiological material is present in many places in society. The international community pays a great deal of attention to its security, especially in those countries where there are major risks. Moreover, nuclear and radiological security is an exclusive competence of individual states. However, the IAEA has a lot of knowledge and experience in this field. It therefore plays a central role. It makes recommendations to the Member States and provides assistance. There is still more to be said, but given the time available, I would like to leave it at that. I have actually said a lot about the instability on the south flank. I very much agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that the war in Iraq in 2003 caused a great deal of misery. In fact, we have seen Iran getting stronger there. The problem of the enormous instability in Iraq, the growth of ISIS and the marginalisation of a large number of Sunnis is extremely serious. It is certainly not the only reason, but it is absolutely a reason; Mr Van Apeldoorn is right. In parallel with the fight against ISIS, it is really important that it is military, as all Members have said, but the way it is done is also essential. That's what you see with the liberation of Fallujah and other cities. That is why the way we, the international community and the Iraqis themselves, work in Iraq is so important, because the situation is very fragile at the moment. There are serious concerns about this. Sectarian violence with Iran's influence and other ties increases the risk of Sunnis becoming more Sunni than they have ever been, making it more difficult to actually invest in stabilisation after a city has been liberated. That is why the Dutch Government is very specific about the 3D approach, which everyone calls it. There are many examples, you know from the letters. That is why I think that is important. Mr Ten Hoeve has asked about the Syrian Kurds. He asked about the government's view of an independent Kurdish state. The Syrian-Kurdish PYD is an important military partner in the fight against ISIS in which they have conquered some strategic areas. There are also many concerns about the PYD. They're not often mentioned, but I think it's important to mention them. There is in no way a tendency towards any pluralism towards Arab residents. There are reports of very serious human rights violations by the PYD. You've probably also seen the reports on the trucks that all those murdered people were in. The PYD maintains contacts with PKK and Assad's regime. However, we consider it important to involve the Kurds in all those Track II dialogues we have. After all, it is the future of the Kurdish people in Syria. I think that is very important and I would like to stick to it. Mr Schrijver asked about the comprehensive peace strategy for ISIS. I think that is an important point. You could say that perhaps a real start has been made for such a strategy through Resolution 2254. It states that in a six-month process facilitated by the UN, Syrian parties must reach an agreement on a different way of governing Syria. A transition period has been introduced, because it is a new constitution. That's what all the negotiations are about now. They're going through a lot of trouble. As you know, it has been proposed to wait two or three weeks. I leave it in the middle, but I think it will give us a chance to slowly but surely see that there is legal legitimacy in a number of elements of international law. I have no doubt whatsoever about the international advisor to the Dutch Government, nor at international level, that what we are doing there is legitimized by international law, but I think Mr Schrijver is right to say that it is a stacking. This accumulation is slowly but surely preparing the political and, in a sense, the legal importance for a collective security strategy. I hope that this can be done, but there must, of course, be political agreement in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u205	It was actually an answer to a question from Mr Schrijver, but it is not quite clear to me what the Minister has just said. He refers to a stack of arguments that the international mandate gives, but does he refer to Resolution 2249 which is explicitly not set out in Chapter 7 and which does not contain the wording of all necessary means?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u206	That's right. Mr Van Apeldoorn is right that it does not contain all necessary means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u207	But earlier it was said that they did not want to refer to that resolution, because it would not provide an international legal basis, which I believe has been established by many international law experts, at least it has been argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u208	Maybe I should give it a little more structure. I went down the bend a little fast. Firstly, there is the ban on violence in Article 2 (4) of the UN Charter. There are a number of exceptions to this ban. One of them is an invitation from a state to act on its territory. That is the legal basis for our efforts in Iraq. There's an invitation for that. Another exception is the right to self-defense, as laid down in Article 51 of the UN Charter. Provided that the conditions are met, any state may rely on self-defense. This also applies to Turkey and Saudi Arabia. I believe that is what a number of Members were asking for. Self-defense can be individual or collective. Collective self-defense constitutes the legal basis for Dutch action in Syria. Specifically, Iraq's collective self-defense against armed attacks by ISIS from Syria. An appeal to collective self-defense requires one or more armed attacks against a state from a third State. In the case of armed attacks originating from non-state groups, we are talking a great deal about the fact that the third state is not prepared or able to effectively stop these armed attacks. That is at the heart of the international legal legitimacy of our activities. Mr Van Apeldoorn referred to Security Council Resolution 2249. He's right. None of these resolutions contain any mandating for use of violence under Chapter 7. I think there can be no misunderstanding about that. They are not the legal basis either. So I didn't mean that one with the stacking. However, these resolutions are an important political signal from the Security Council and can be seen as an appeal to the collective responsibility of states. That brings me a little towards Mr Schrijver. They could be a stepping stone to a greater role for the UN Security Council, as the UN Security Council has been given primary responsibility for international peace and security in the UN Charter. For this reason, Article 51 provides that the right to self-defense ends when the UN Security Council has taken the necessary measures. I hope so. I would say that this is the process that we are seeing now, provided that there is agreement between the members of the Council, in particular the P5, on the implementation of that role. As you know, Russia has so far blocked any attempt to reach a chapter 7 resolution in the UN Security Council. Both bilaterally and in the support group, of course, we are talking to Russia about this kind of thing, so that you could slowly but surely go to such a situation, provided that it is politically desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u209	I would like to respond to two points. I do not know whether the word 'accumulation' of legal bases is so happy. This means that one is stacked on the other. I would rather use the word "diversity" or, as I called it in my contribution, a patchwork because the foundations partly overlap. That doesn't mean they're stacked. Secondly, it is important to be very careful about what is in resolution 2249. It may coincide with the Minister's call for an integrated peace strategy and for a move away from the right of self-defense to truly collective security. It is true that Resolution 2249, which was unanimously adopted in response to the attacks in Paris, calls on the UN Member States to use all possible means in the fight against ISIS. The resolution focuses specifically on the fight against international terrorism. The diplomatic jargon for a mandate to use violence "all necessary means" is used. The Minister is quite right that it is not a chapter 7 resolution. Furthermore, the Security Council decides on the use of force, or gives its consent, and here it is actually a call. So one goes halfway. And that's important now that the Russians, the Chinese and others totally agreed. That's a straw and maybe more than that, which you should try to hold. This resolution was reconfirmed in Resolution 2254 of December, which the government embraced. This is important, but it is not a full mandate. It goes in this direction, but it is quite different from what we have experienced with the minister's predecessor, namely that there were readings in a resolution that were absolutely not in it. I am now talking about Resolution 1441 on Iraq. It's actually half in here, but the other half isn't there or isn't there yet. That is why we can rely on the right to collective self-defense, but I was surprised that our questions were not answered in writing. I am glad that we now have the opportunity to restore that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u210	I thank Mr Schrijver. It is a major risk to enter into discussion with a professor of International Law about the terms "lap blanket" and "stacking." So I like to give my words for better. It was my intention to state, also in the direction of Mr Van Apeldoorn, that the core of our legitimacy to also operate militaryly lies in collective self-defense. I used the term 'lap blanket', but it contains an element of UN resolutions, such as Resolution 2249, which are very much about the fight against ISIS, but do not give independent legitimacy to do what we do. I agree with what Mr Schrijver says about seeing these resolutions together. Resolution 2249 deals with the fight against ISIS. That is a battle on which the world community agrees, but the question is: 'I say nothing new with it and nothing new with it, nothing legal, something more political', how to fight ISIS and how to use that resolution in practice. In fact, you can see that the Russian Federation, except in Palmyra and in one or two other areas, is using the fight against terror for a very different reason. The fight against ISIS is only very secondary in this respect. That is why I see the importance of that last resolution, because it refers both to the fight against ISIS, which, in any case, is necessary, that is what the UN is saying as well as to the need to continue with the security project and negotiations. I agree that we should be able to use this very slowly but surely proactively to move forward with collective security in Syria. I think the Secretary of Defense has already said the most about Mali. It is as Mr Dankert said when it comes to peacekeeping operations. Suppose you invite someone to dinner and that person leaves after the appetizer. Then you think, "I've done something wrong." However, if someone sits until six o'clock in the morning, that's a bit long. It's always about timing. Are you staying short or too long and what is the national contribution? The Dutch Government is looking at it now, but there is no disagreement within the government. This has simply to do with the combination of the political need to do so, also because of the problems I have just described, and what we can put together and only on the mat. They're looking into that right now. There are a number of elements that have just been mentioned about the timing of 3D which I very much agree with. In the direction of Mr Knapen, I note the following. People say, "Why do you interfere with Africa?" Isn't that a hobby? However, Africa is its strategic continent for the future, both economically, politically and in terms of refugee flows, as is the case in part with the Middle East. If we do not see Africa as a continent that has a direct and significant impact on our country through demographics, climate change and economic opportunities, then we will later say: if only we had looked at it in this way a little earlier. The same goes for the Chinese. The fact that they're in Djibouti doesn't tell me everything. They show a certain behavior that we also showed at the end of the nineteenth century. I am thinking of the acquisition of raw materials, in a way that is very proactive, with a large role of the state. However, you can also see that this means that the Chinese will be more involved in the conflicts in Africa, including a UN peace-keeping school because otherwise they will not be able to operate actively. On the Middle East peace process, I can only say that we support the French initiative. I think it's important that that happens. I'm going to Paris on Friday. There are major problems at present, both on the Israeli side and on the Palestinian side. The desire to negotiate must therefore be brought closer. There is a huge Palestinian division. I also mention the lack of legitimacy because there are no elections. I would point out the difference between Hamas and the PLO. All kinds of elements can be put forward, and that is what has been done. In Israel we are now dealing with a government of very conservative cut. In any case, the statements made by that government do not point to a very proactive attitude towards achieving a peace agreement, but it cannot continue to do so. That has far too many risks, for the people who live there, for the Israelis as well as for the Palestinians, but also for the fact that it is a risky area anyway. This means that we cannot wait for a new election every time, either in the US, in Israel or in the Palestinian territories. Progress needs to be made on the basis of the two-state solution. I have already raised the question of recognition. The policy in this area has changed, but that is no different from that of any other European country, except in the case of the old Warsaw Pact countries and Sweden. Nor does the French Government automatically say: we are only taking this initiative and if we do not participate, we recognise it. That's a strategic moment you're committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u211	A question to the Minister. Today and yesterday, Netanyahu indicated that he supports the two-state solution. Then what's conservative about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u212	I hope he supports it. I've talked to him about it before. We have good relations with Israel. If that country wants the two-state solution, then I am only positive about it. We're gonna try and get on with it on Friday. All these things, however, are evident from the facts, not from what you say but from what you do. I welcome the fact that Mr Netanyahu has said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u213	The Minister likes the facts. We find each other in that respect, because that also applies to me. I look at history, and I see that there have been many hand-outs from the Israeli side to the Palestinians, but they are constantly rejected. The Hamas Charter also states that Hamas will never recognise the State of Israel. That says not only Hamas, but Al Fatah is the same. Abbas also says he will never acknowledge the state of Israel. That seems to me to be a very difficult matter. I therefore believe that the Minister should not focus on Israel, because that country wants to. I think that we should look first at the Palestinian side, because it is time and time again that people fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u214	At times like this, there is always talk of a stronger and weaker party. There are always parties here that are very pro-Israel and parties that are very pro-Palestines. We can talk about this for a long time, but I think the most important thing is that everyone sees how long this problem has been with us, in domestic politics, in regional politics and in international politics. I'm not blaming anyone right now. I am concerned that there is now an interesting new initiative. The Netherlands is invited, as one of the few small countries. We're gonna be proactive in this. I'm not gonna say in advance that he or she isn't doing well. Let us let the facts speak. Then we will see whether we want to adopt a good two-state solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u215	I sincerely hope that the Minister will look at the facts, including those in the past, and take them with him in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u216	The Minister is right to state that he wants to look at the facts. It is precisely when we look at the actual situation that I am thinking of the attacks that are still taking place in Israel that the time is ripe for a Palestinian state? Shouldn't peace between these two peoples grow from the bottom up? If you're going to dictate or force this from above, you're going to have a drama.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u217	I am afraid I do not agree with Mr Van Dijk on this point. I do not have the impression that the establishment of the Palestinian State is being rushed. I'm having a little trouble with that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u218	I didn't talk about rushing. Is the time right? I mentioned the deaths in Israel as a result of the terror that is still there. I mentioned the fact that Palestinian leaders are still making large payments to Palestinian terrorists. Is then the time ripe and do you not create a new hostile state next to Israel? Is that wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u219	I'm very much in favour of that. The fact that this is not the case has taken far too long. Too many odds aren't taken. This is extremely risky, precisely because of the problems that Mr Van Dijk mentioned, such as radicalisation. It is therefore important that there should not be a new generation of conflicts: not in the Palestinian region, but also in Israel. That really is not going to work; that only leads to the problem that Mr Van Dijk has mentioned. The existing situation is simply not sustainable and can only lead to what it is most afraid of. In that sense, I am politically different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u220	Finally, on this point, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u221	This is definitely the last time. It's exactly what the Minister says: there shouldn't be another lost generation. At the same time, the youngest generation of Palestinians has been raised with media and an education system that is still adequate with hatred of Jews, etc. I hold my heart when that generation must form a new state alongside Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u222	I will answer Mr Van Dijk's question. Where education or public or anti-Semitic or pro-terrorist statements are made, we distance ourselves from them. We are actively doing so, as we did during President Abbas' visit, even when it comes to funding. The European Union's Pegase funds are therefore not used in the prisons that Mr Van Dijk is talking about. It is important to note that. In addition, the situation in the Palestinian territories is a little more colourful than it is now showing. On the contrary, many young people would like to have a little freedom to travel wherever they want to go. They're just locked up in those areas now, with huge controls and huge frustrations. There is a whole area, area C, where no economic development is currently taking place. I don't think this will promote peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u223	In the dialogue with Mr Van Dijk, I would like to point out that the State of Israel also came into being by means of a UN resolution in 1948. Furthermore, the international community, including the US Government, has consistently opted for the two-state solution. In the 1960s, you had Resolution 242. But, more importantly, under the Bush administration, you had the resolution that clearly opts for the two-state solution: 1515. It would be very strange to suddenly distance ourselves from that because we do not think the time is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u224	I have three brief comments to make. The first point concerns the HIPPO report which was requested by Mr Van den Broek. At the heart of this is the strengthening of the United Nations in terms of effective protection of citizens, better planning and logistical support, flexibility and leadership of peacekeeping operations. He also mentioned this: much more involvement of troops-producing countries in planning and implementation, and better use of intelligence in missions. The Netherlands has begun to do so. In addition, I would like to simplify something, because the question is much more in-depth and it would take much more time to answer it, and that peace enforcement could never be a role of the United Nations again. I agree with the honourable Member. I understand that there is a certain shudder, for example in the fight against terror, to give the UN a direct role in that, given the political environment and situation, but I do not rule it out. However, it makes sense to see a certain division of labour in that. Furthermore, my main problem with these operations is that the term is not really good.... that there is usually a situation in which there is neither war nor peace. Then they must be well equipped and have a mandate to protect people. That is the most difficult situation at the moment. With regard to China, I would just like to say that the fact that we focus mainly on the environment of Europe, because it now requires a priority position from the Netherlands, does not, of course, mean that we are blind to what is happening in the rest of the world. Neither when it comes to the economy, nor when it comes to investment, nor when it comes to the situation in the South China Sea, which, of course, we are concerned about. The Netherlands also has a history with the Law of the Sea and the proper regulation of this kind of conflict. That is the agenda that the Netherlands should focus on and not on choosing a particular position in an individual situation, where there is a difference of opinion about who has what field. I would like to say to Mr Koffeman that the issue of food supply is essential, even when it comes to international security. I agree. I myself have seen in a number of countries that we are dealing with a relationship between climate change, food production and the opportunities of people in conflict. I do not know whether we will come to the same conclusions on exactly how food supplies should be dealt with. I would point out that Secretary of State Van Dam also raised this issue very actively during the European Presidency. This is about food safety and global food security, especially for young children and their mothers, but that is a rather complicated story. It also has to do with major developments, such as urbanisation, geopolitical developments and the way in which we produce our food. 800 million people still suffer from hunger and 2 billion are mainly undernourished young children. The growing world population, increasing pressure on land and natural resources, and changing food patterns make this challenge all the more urgent. I agree with Mr Koffeman that this is an absolute priority, which is also part of the future-proof element of our international security strategy. This brings me to the end of the first-term answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u225	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both directors very much for their detailed reply. Even though she has now left, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Defence on her commitment to the task specialization she has expressed not only today but also recently. Despite all the sensitivities, it is prepared to insist on this and to take steps in it. We very much agree with that. As far as defence itself is concerned, our group still has a bit of a picture of a kind of managerial consistency: basic readiness, operational support and then replacement investment. We also have a slight feeling of disappointment about what the cabinet is doing with the moment of urgency and with the wind. Soon there will be a summit in Warsaw. We just had the report of the General Court of Auditors. These are elements that you can use to boost the urgency and take firm steps. After all, it is not entirely forbidden in politics to forge iron when it is hot. Now it seems as if it should slip a little towards the cabinet formation. Then we'll talk about a year. That's too bad. That's a waste of time. Let me now turn to foreign and security policy. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister. We support a number of clear positions he takes. As far as sanctions are concerned, we are in a very clear position where it is said that we will continue to do so, but every six months, even in six months' time, there will be a moment of calibration and review. We also welcome his emphasis on the fact that the Baltic States are being given a form of protection through a rotational system of NATO troops. In this respect, we see it quite differently from the SP, which actually says: leave everything the Russians can piss off. I have a few other points I would like to raise. I myself spoke in my speech about the fragmentation of Europe's development cooperation with Africa. I have spoken about the fragmentation of policy vis-à-vis China. I am at least as positive about China as this foreign minister, let there be no mistake about that. It is a country which logically defends, defends and strengthens its interests from its position. I have spoken about the fragmentation of EU missions; military advisory missions in Africa. I did that to invite the Minister to see how he feels about this fragmentation. Is there a kind of concept that will enable Europe, or a core of some lead nations in Europe, to cope with all such fragmentations? In an admirable way, the Minister has given a good answer to everything in small pieces as far as we are concerned. There is also an element of "piecemal engineering," which is also not very strange when it comes to governing. I understand that. But as a result you lose a bit of the picture of what is now the concept that the minister wants to work with in a somewhat larger design in this respect. What are the ambitions to do about this fragmentation policyally, conceptually? I am not going to ask any more questions, because the Minister had 130, I understand. Perhaps we should wait for Mogherini in this respect and we shall do so. After that, I certainly hope to discuss this again with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u226	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both Ministers very much for their clear answer, although one of them has already left. I'm starting my contribution with the Defense Department and, in particular, the Defence budget. As far as I am concerned, that remains an unsatisfactory story, no matter how sympathetic the Minister puts it all. I am not saying this in order to organize my own disappointments and certainly not because I would not give the Minister a flower; it is not all that. But 600 million is being shielded, which, for a large part, is simply a nullification of previously agreed cuts. To call that "extra money" now... The Secretary of Defense talked a number of times about a trend break when she talked about the budget. I very much welcome such a trend break, but it must come about. And just too often the Minister quotes the phrase 'depending on the financial possibilities'. What is the guiding principle: the budgetary framework or security? Does the accountant ultimately determine our safety? In recent years, the cabinet was unable to cope seriously because of the financial crisis; now the cabinet is unable to make a serious addition because it is in its late days. The Minister of Defense must also be very upset, as I say to an empty chair. In any case, it is only clear how important it is for the Defence paragraphs of the electoral programmes in this area to be substantially filled. I would like to make a comment to the Foreign Minister about Iran, because I did not receive an answer in the first term. The sanctions have been lifted. Iran is trading with the West again and is gaining more financial strength. We know that Iran is also a serious sponsor of terrorist organisations. What pressure is being exerted to stop Iran, so that it is not just a question of greater freedom for this country? I come to my final point. Without wishing to open up a whole debate: if the time is not ripe for something, it is, in my view, for a Palestinian state. I really don't see anything about that when I think about Hamas and Fatah and how they can devour each other. I fear that the formation of such a Palestinian state simply means the formation of a new failed state, which is soon being taken over by extremist Hamas-like movements. We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u227	Mr. Chairman. My group thought it was an interesting debate. It was inspiring to listen to colleagues and certainly to both ministers. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, through him, the Minister for Defence for the detailed answer. I have four short points to make. My first point concerns defence. My group also hopes that the trend break will continue, in the sense that we will make more defence efforts. That is why we strongly supported Mr Kuiper's motion a few years ago. We hope that it is not just an increase in the defence budget, but an increase in the budget for international cooperation, including development cooperation in general. I welcome the Minister's comments on the role of the UN peacekeeping operations and the contribution of the Netherlands to them and on her positive stance in the discussion on a continued presence in Mali. Then there is my second point. I have put quite a lot of emphasis on a broad concept of security, on shared security, on the words of former Swedish Prime Minister Palme, and on 'human security' within the meaning of the UN concept. From the fact that the Minister did not say anything about this, I can only conclude that he fully agrees. At this late hour, "who doesn't speak, agrees," is a very good adage. My third point concerns Syria. The conflict is indeed extremely complex. Only a comprehensive peace strategy will, in the long run, be able to bring relief. That is why it is important that we think creatively and proactively try to pick up the handouts that the five permanent members have sometimes done together. Let us hope that the Netherlands will also be a non-permanent member from 1 January. Finally, a word about the Turkey deal, a statement which is in fact an agreement, but which is clearly not called an 'agreement' or a 'treaty'. I think that today the Minister speaks a little too much with the tail between his legs about treaties, if I may say so. He might think: here we go again with a referendum. But treaties are agreements that exist in all shapes and sizes. If you say the word 'Turkey deal': an agreement, an agreement', it may be a statement in its name, but in its form, content and context it is a signed agreement, a framework agreement. Perhaps it will be possible to reflect on this at a later stage, including with the responsible director of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u228	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply and his coming to the Chamber. The same goes, of course, for his colleague, the Minister of Defence. Unfortunately, she has already left, but this minister will certainly observe the honours. It is staggering to note that the word 'Islamic' hardly fell during this debate, while Islam is involved in 95% of armed conflicts. This ideology is the catalyst for our international and national security problems. Terrorism, refugees, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict: the source of all this misery is Islam. If the Minister and our colleagues cannot even name the problem, how can it be solved? It's completely ignored. The Arab world does not want a two-state solution. Every proposal is rejected. The United Nations and the Arab world are consciously increasing the Palestinian refugee problem. People just want to get rid of the Jewish state. The Palestinian Authority is very open about this. What they say is also in line with what they do; I shall quote a few words. For example, Abbas said on Egyptian television: "I will never recognize the Jewish state." The Hamas Charter says: "The release of the conflict with Israel is an act of grave treason. Whoever does that, they are cursed." I've got another one. Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahar says: "The Islamic and traditional views reject the idea of establishing an independent Palestinian state. In the past, there was no independent Palestinian state. Our main goal is to establish a large Islamic state, pan-Arabic or pan-Islamic. That comes from our religious beliefs. This is a holy country. It is not the property of Palestinians or Arabs. This land is owned by all Muslims, all over the world." You understand that negotiation is going to be very difficult with such an institution. The Minister of Defence is not here, but I would like to mention this in the second term. The Minister of Defence points out that there are no problems with ITAR, but the question is, of course, what information it provides to the Americans when they ask, for example, who is working on an aircraft. Will the Minister inform us if there is a second nationality? I understand that the Minister is not here, but I would like to answer my question. I don't know if there are any options, if it could happen in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u229	We can ask the Foreign Minister if he wishes to pass the question on to his colleague in the Defence Department. She has already promised to give a written answer to a question from Mr Van Kappen. Maybe this can be taken. Secretary of State, you heard this, didn't you? Yes. You're gonna do it, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u230	Thank you, Madam President. We have seen at Brussels airport that some of the perpetrators were working on airport security. Furthermore, we know that several of our military have defected to ISIS while they were employed by the Defense Department. The PVV and many Dutch people are worried about the fifth column in our country. That is why we want to table the next motion. We ask the government to make it a condition for workers in the defence sector and the security services that they have only one nationality, namely Dutch nationality. The President shall: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Kops, Mr Markuszower, Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Dercksen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a majority of the Dutch Turks are supporters of Erdogan and his Islamization policy;]] [[whereas the authority of the Moroccan Consul outweighs the authority of the Dutch government in the case of Moroccan Dutch;]] [[considers that employees in the defence and security services should serve only the Dutch interest, without being hindered by authorities from the country of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to make employees of the Defence and Security Services subject to the condition that they have only one nationality, namely Dutch nationality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is what I wanted to leave it at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u232	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group thanks both ministers for answering our questions. We had an interesting debate this afternoon and at some point also a lively debate. I think it was good to highlight and name the political differences that exist in this house in this way. I have already recalled that the SP is also based on a broad concept of security. In this respect, Mr Koffeman's speech addressed me, but I would now like to confine myself to the more classical security issues. I repeat that the constitutional requirement that the Netherlands should promote the international legal order remains extremely important for the SP Group. We are pleased to note that the Minister agrees with us. For us, this means first and foremost that we must respect international law at all times. In this respect, we continue to disagree on the international mandate for intervention in Syria. This can, of course, be considered differently. From our point of view, the more the interstate interpretation of the Charter is released, the greater the danger that it may be a free pass to intervene anywhere in the world. We're not gonna get out of that discussion tonight, but it's gonna go on. I would like to say a little more about the Middle East and the fight against ISIS. We do not agree on all points, especially when it comes to fighting against ISIS. The SP remains of the opinion that we can do better than throw bombs on Syria. In any case, we note that the current cabinet, as the Minister's response has shown, favours a more balanced policy towards the Middle East and also the Israeli/Palestine conflict than we have seen in previous Cabinets, for example the Rutte I cabinet. That's good. We are also pleased to note that the Minister agrees with us that if Islamic State is expelled, there is a great risk of renewed sectarian violence, especially if Sunnis in those same areas have much to fear from Shiites entering. In that respect, perhaps we should wait and see what is happening in Fallujah at the moment. I understand that last week the Netherlands carried out bombing of Fallujah. Let us hope that if Fallujah falls, that will not lead to the same outburst of violence as we have seen before. I assume the Minister shares our concerns on that point. Then there is the recognition of the Palestinian State. We are pleased that the Minister agrees with us that this must be done. The question remains when. The discussion is no longer whether it should happen, but only at what time. The cabinet continues to take the view that it should be done at a strategic time. That is in itself a reasoning that we can follow. The question then is only when this strategic moment will come. As far as we are concerned, we want to encourage the cabinet to do so. You must also deal strategically with that strategic moment, that is, perhaps you should try a little proactively to create that strategic moment. Suppose the French say: if we do not get out of these negotiations now, it is time to proceed to recognition. That would be such a strategic commitment to that idea. Then there's the chapter on rising tensions with Russia. The SP Group wishes to stress once again that striving for security means that you can also move in the perspective of another. In my group's view, this has happened too little in recent years. Some politicians and generals on both sides seem to want a new cold war. This risks becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy. In my first term, I spoke extensively about the NATO expansion and what it has brought about. I said it was unwise. That is what we thought at the time, and that is what we think afterwards. The Minister replied that he thought that was a difficult discussion. I understand. I understand that he is not going to distance himself afterwards from NATO enlargement as it has happened. Now let's give the past a rest and look to the future. NATO has already expanded considerably in recent years. The question remains for us as a SP Group whether there should be limits to this process at any time. I am thinking in particular of Georgia and Ukraine. These are countries other than Albania or Montenegro. The 2008 decision, in principle, to give Ukraine and Georgia the prospect of membership, was controversial, including within NATO. Would it not be wise to withdraw this promise from 2008? With regard to the policy of sanctions against Russia, the SP Group is pleased to note that the Minister agrees with us that there are also problematic aspects to this, that at least there can be different views on this and that it is not clear that this has only positive effects, but that there is another side to this that we must keep in mind. I am pleased that the Minister continues to underline the temporary nature of these sanctions. We also fully agree with him that Russia should not violate the territorial integrity of other countries and that this has happened in the recent past. We would like to stress that this should apply to all countries, to all UN Member States, including Turkey, for example, where Syria's territorial integrity and action against Kurdish fighters are concerned. My group has also drawn attention to the need for nuclear disarmament, particularly as regards tactical nuclear weapons. I've been looking it up for a while. Mr. Writer pointed it out to me. The motion on this matter, which was previously tabled in the First Chamber, was adopted unanimously. We are pleased to note that the Minister wishes to continue his commitment to nuclear disarmament. My group's question remains as to how it intends to put it into practice. So I would like to hear a few words about that. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that I do not think I have received an answer. Perhaps I have missed out on my question about the discussion on no first use, namely whether it should be put back on NATO's agenda. Perhaps the Minister could comment briefly on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u233	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two ministers for the answers they have given to the questions raised by my group. The Secretary of Defense is no longer present in the Chamber at the moment. I would like to remind her of one more point. I had hoped that she would go into more detail about the question I asked about the continued capacity of the Dutch armed forces in the various areas in which they are active. I therefore refer to activities in the area of NATO in the East-West context, to activities in the framework of UN peacekeeping operations, for example in Mali, but also to activities that occasionally occur in the context of EU operations. How do these activities relate to the problems identified by the General Court and arising from the still very tight budget? The amount in that budget has fallen considerably in recent years. Only part of that decrease has been compensated by another increase, for example by the 600 million added later. This probably requires a longer discussion. However, I am concerned about the following. Should we be afraid of situations that we have already experienced in Syria, in which it has to be concluded that due to the lack of enough ammunition and parts, a certain military contribution by the Netherlands must be put to an end? How much can we do at the same time and what priorities does the Minister of Defence set? I am thinking here of the report of the Court of Auditors. I come to a few points on which I have asked questions or made comments. Those questions have been partially answered and sometimes not answered. I would like the Minister to comment on it, either directly or in writing. The first is my proposal that Lebanon and Jordan should receive special treatment. At the moment, given the refugee problem, these are the two most vulnerable countries in the region. Moreover, they are countries where in itself there is no extreme dictatorship as in Syria. For this reason, too, these two countries deserve support, both from the EU and from the Netherlands themselves. I would be pleased if the Minister could comment on this. What are the options for this? For example, I mentioned in my contribution that the Netherlands could make partner countries for development cooperation. There are also several forms in the EU that could be said to have a special relationship with these countries. I am pleased to note that the Syria Support Group has agreed that food drips should be possible in the context of further humanitarian aid. Ideas about food drips have come out more often in the past. Almost always this has not led to results. This time this is the case. A deadline has also been agreed. The World Food Programme must take action in this respect. The international community is going to ensure that this is indeed possible. I hope this will finally get going. At the end of my speech I also asked a question about our relationship with the United States. It could certainly come under pressure from the outcome of the American elections and from the fact that we do not meet expectations expressed by the United States on our defence expenditure. Does the Minister wish to comment on the possibility of housing in the Netherlands of one or two Guantánamo Bay prisoners? My final comment concerns what the Minister said about the importance of consensus. When you think about that, you come to the conclusion that our foreign policy has actually hung on three important hooks for decades. In the field of security, the Netherlands was a loyal ally. At European level, the Netherlands was one of the six countries of origin and the Netherlands was in favour of further integration. In the field of development cooperation, 0.7% was the reference point in the Netherlands. You weren't supposed to touch that. These hooks, these beacons of our foreign policy, all three are no longer to the same extent as they used to be. As far as European policy is concerned, the beacon has disappeared completely. There is a total lack of consensus on how to proceed with this. In the field of security, there is no longer the same obvious participation as in the Cold War period. But in that respect we are regaining part of the terrain. As far as development cooperation is concerned, there is now a combination of aid and trade; the merchant and the reverend know, as it were, to come together in a new consensus. I believe that we are perhaps also on the right track in this respect, but it is important that the internal debate is well fueled, in particular by the cabinet and by all those involved in the issues I have just mentioned. In the discussion on the referendum on Ukraine and certainly in the discussion on the referendum on the EU Constitution ten years ago, I missed the government. I am referring in particular to the Dutch place in the world and our foreign policy, including with regard to the EU. I am not talking about the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who may well be travelling a lot but has contributed within his possibilities. I'm talking about other rulers, who I won't call by name now. I was reminded of the memoirs of Dean Acheson; the minister is a well-read man, who immediately puts all the facts mentioned here, so perhaps this too. That was the Secretary of State of the United States in the early years of the Cold War. He explained that he spent 70% of his time convincing domestic public opinion about American foreign policy. At the moment you can almost say that the first priority for foreign policy in the Netherlands is the recovery of domestic aid, because without that support you will not get any further. Can I therefore make a general appeal to the entire cabinet, not specifically to this minister, to invest more in explaining and defending Dutch international politics and the role we play ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u234	Madam President. I would like to thank both directors through the remaining Foreign Minister for their reply. I have a few more questions for a short while. I asked what the policy is with regard to Frontex. In view of the dramatic developments, should Frontex not be significantly strengthened, even now that a new stream is coming from Africa next summer? The dramatic problems there are so visible in the form of powerlessness. It's hopelessly inadequate there. I had also asked whether NATO could not do more than monitor or observe in that area. After all, they shouldn't do much. I am very clear what the function is. Is it even preventive? My third point was the Libya Summit. I do not know whether the Minister, even given the time, wants to come back to what is intended there and what is to be expected of it. Then I come to terrorism. I had asked what is going on with America's important desire that the intelligence services in Europe should be better with each other, both between governments and within governments. I discussed this at length this afternoon. I mentioned this afternoon the European Championship football with 90,000 people to ensure the safety of millions of people. There is just this evening a message from the Department of State that warns the Americans of the danger of terrorist attacks in Europe. That says literally: there is a lot of choice for public places; large crowds are attractive targets. It points in particular to the European Championship football and the World Youth Days of the Catholic Church in Krakow. I am not going to talk about Minister Schäuble, but it is very unfortunate that today the Dutch Central Planning Office warns about the inheritances of the crisis measures, in the sense that they entail additional risks. Let me leave it at that. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his detailed letter on the policy of the European Union and the Netherlands for Tunisia, as I requested from the European Council in February. It is very important that countries around Syria and Libya have our full support, including in the economic sense. We had the Arab Spring in Tunisia. We know that's where a lot of terrorists come from. It is a weak economically developed area by now, because new attacks were already there a few this year to hit tourism hard. We should hope that a country such as Tunisia will have a second chance at an Arab Spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u235	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank both ministers for their comprehensive answer to the questions. A fairly large part of today's discussion was devoted to Russia's situation and our relationship with Russia. I must say that I very much agree with the attitude the Minister has defended here. My only point is that in the 1990s I felt that the West had too little regard for the elements of reasonableness that were in Russia's views and actions at the time. I think that is an element that is still working on the further escalation of relations between Russia and the West. It's okay for us to take care of that. In addition, I have two or actually three elements which I would like to put to the Minister. One. Frontex is being converted into a genuine European border guard. Can the Minister comment on what we should imagine, including for our own position in Europe? Two. At the end of my speech, I pointed out that the contrast in the Middle East is increasingly developing into the most fundamental and dangerous contradiction, namely that between Sunnis and Shiites. You can see that contradiction very clearly in Iraq. It also plays a major role in the conflict in Syria and is increasingly developing in the explicit opposition between Saudi Arabia and Iran. I feel that we are only encouraging this contradiction by providing Saudi Arabia with western weapons to a large extent. These weapons go to a regime that we do not have to sympathize with in itself, but that we strengthen and support in this way in its development, allowing its form of Islam to prevail in the Middle East vis-à-vis the Shiite adversary and great power Iran. The weapons are also being used at the moment, explicitly against Shiite groups. Should we be supplying weapons in such cases? Finally, I would like to make the following point. We also want to start supplying arms to Libya, to a government that we are not convinced has anything to say there. Where do these weapons end up and what do we do with them? I'd like to hear from the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u236	Mr. Chairman. I thank both ministers for their answers. The Minister of Defence has not answered all my questions, but she has promised to reply in writing to the question on the delta between commitments entered into and investment planning. For the record, I would like to point out that she has promised to indicate exactly what the 2% standard is. We are talking about the 2% standard, but we know that all countries have different elements in it. It's a terribly unclear standard. I would also like to join Mr Van Dijk in his speech. That's what I'm getting from the heart. It's not the accountant who decides how much money we spend on our security. What else needs to happen before we realize that something is really going on? It is the primary responsibility of politics and politicians to ensure the security of the state. I am not here to compliment you, but I am doing it anyway: the Foreign Minister has answered all my questions with complete satisfaction. So I'm not going to go into that any further, but I do have some new questions for him. Is the Minister aware of the nine-country initiative, led by Germany, to create a kind of permanent structured cooperation in the European Union? This initiative is referred to as the European Defence Union. It is planned to launch this proposal in the German White Paper in July. Is the Minister aware of this initiative and, if so, what does he think? Where do we stand on that? It is said that this initiative is linked to the Treaty of Lisbon. It also has to do with all kinds of things that we have discussed here. How do we achieve a greater impact of the European component throughout NATO and how do we also ensure that we, as Europe, can secure the situation in our own neighbourhoods without calling on the Americans, i.e. NATO? I am interested in whether the Minister knows about this initiative and how he is opposed to it. The last questions to the Minister concern the situation in Venezuela. I can't quite get around that. In Venezuela, things are really bad right now. If there is an institutional, political and social collapse there, we are very close to it; the emergency situation has been going on forever and could lead to problems in the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom. The Minister of Defence is not here, but perhaps the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be able to answer our questions on this subject. DOD fills that out. In terms of defence in the Caribbean, we have a threshold function. That means that there are enough units there to make it clear to a potential opponent that he cannot occupy the area on a free Saturday afternoon because he will get a lot of thunder and then perhaps have time to engage the UN, the Americans and so on. The threshold must be high enough. However, we have made considerable savings in our military presence in the Caribbean. Is the threshold still high enough to act as a deterrent? Shouldn't that be dealt with? There is also the refugee problem. There has not yet been a real large flow of refugees from Venezuela, but it is swelling. The reports of the AIVD and the STUDY that have just come out warn that this flow of refugees may increase further in 2016. When these refugees go to Aruba and Curaçao, it is annoying enough because there is no refugee policy. But when they go to Bonaire, it's our problem. After all, Bonaire is part of the Dutch state system. Is that under consideration? What about the refugee policy in Aruba and Saint Martin? I don't think there is. The most important question, however, is what is going on with Bonaire, because Bonaire is our direct responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u237	Mr. Chairman. It is a long debate with many perspectives. I would like to thank both ministers for their comprehensive approach to the various points of view. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, it is important that we use the 3D approach, as I said earlier. That is also the benchmark for looking at the answer. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for saying repeatedly in the debate that this is also a starting point for the cabinet. Another point we want to make is to promote EU cooperation in the field of international security policy, considering that no country in Europe alone can ensure peace and stability in Europe and in the region around it. I hear many indications of this in the answer given by both ministers. That is good, but at the same time we still have the feeling that there is much more profit to be gained. With regard to the extra funds needed for the defence industry, I would like to make a somewhat relative remark. The EU as a whole still spends three times as much money on defence as Russia. That doesn't say everything, as my next example shows. The United States is spending a lot more money; let there be no misunderstanding about that. At the same time, the United States also manages to take three times as much out of a euro or if you want out of a dollar in terms of effectiveness of military spending as the European countries do separately. As far as I am concerned, this is an additional incentive to consider, precisely in terms of efficiency, whether we should not put the jars together at European level, so that the effectiveness of the efforts can make a much greater leap. A factor 3 is obvious. I would also like to thank the Minister for his comment on the international legal order and the handle he offers for the action of the cabinet. That is one of the things that we too believe should be carefully monitored. My group has drawn attention to the unstable states which have not yet escalated. With my colleague from the CDA, I say that the answer on that point was rather fragmented. We are actually looking forward to a broader and more strategic EU vision of how to prevent escalation, even in the longer term, in states that are on the verge. I mentioned the examples of Libya and Tunisia, and I am also thinking of Kosovo. There are initiatives in each of these areas. We are very much looking forward to this, because it will not be possible for us to achieve the security strategy that will be presented by Mrs Mogherini in the near future. We hope to find sufficient leads in this to prevent escalation and to ensure that we can not only go behind the facts but anticipate where things go wrong. Right now, the counter's at zero and I quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u238	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, many thanks to both leaders for the debate and the response. We started this evening with the Secretary of Defense. That was an interesting part of our joint discussions, which, as far as my group is concerned, was somewhat unsatisfactory. In fact, we have had this conversation before, when the urgency of what we stand for, with on the one hand the state of our armed forces and on the other hand the new challenges in a new situation, is actually getting to us more and more. This has been expressed by several spokesmen. In this context, I have put a great deal of emphasis on the fact that we have also made agreements within NATO, precisely in view of this new security situation. The plans discussed in Wales had precisely to do with the need for a new impetus. In the Netherlands, it is stressed from various sides that steps need to be taken. Clingendael speaks of "a delta plan for the armed forces." My group would not want to make our efforts dependent on the following information. I think that feeling also lives in the House of Representatives, where a working group, on the initiative of a number of groups, is now considering what such a multiannual financial framework should look like. The unsatisfactory thing about the debate is that you always come across the short term, while it is now necessary to determine what is needed over a longer period of time. So I would like to put once again the question of a multiannual perspective on the table. How this multi-annual perspective should be shaped and how we are growing to a higher percentage, let us leave it to the cabinet, but let us at least lay down a line of reasoning and outline that multiannual perspective. I would like to express this request to the cabinet by means of a motion. The President shall: Mr Kuiper, Mr Knapen, Mr Van Kappen, Mr Diederik van Dijk and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Europe and the Netherlands are facing increasing international security risks and that, in view of this, the readiness and employability of the Dutch armed forces are at stake;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has to comply with international NATO obligations, which it does not now comply with;]] [[Considering that in Wales in September 2014 the Netherlands committed itself to moving defence expenditure towards the 2% standard adopted by NATO within 10 years;]] [[Whereas important advisory bodies, experts and both Chambers of the States-General call for a multiannual financial framework demonstrating the policy effort to be up to the level of allegiance obligations by 2024;]] [[believes that a significant commitment can be expected from the Netherlands at the forthcoming NATO summit in Warsaw;]] [[invites the Government, in the light of the above, to submit to the two Chambers, together with Princess Day, a proposal for a multiannual financial framework clarifying how the Netherlands will comply with these obligations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33694-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u239	I see a colleague standing up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u240	I would like to put a question to the authors of the motion. From the point of view of D66, on the one hand, we have sympathy for the idea behind it, but on the other hand we have some doubts about certain wordings. It seems in the motion that the 2% standard is a real obligation. I thought NATO used the term 'to aim to' more and therefore formulated it more as an objective. The motion ends with: "that makes clear how the Netherlands will comply with these obligations." That seems to go too far. I ask Mr Kuiper not so much to change the text of the motion; he also has a number of signatures from Members who support his motion. We read it as follows: to provide a multiannual financial framework that makes clear how the Dutch defence budget will develop in the coming years in the light of the 2% standard. Is that an interpretation that Mr Kuiper can accept?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u241	Yeah, sure. That is a good expression of what is expressed here. We are talking about a standard, but I think it is a kind of directive; it also says 'guidelines'. However, we will discuss this with each other. If you really want to give substance to the alliance with each other, then you should also be able to appeal to each other. In Wales we have been said to move towards. So I am not saying at all that it should be 2% by 2024, but I would like to see what we are doing with this motion over a longer period of time. The wording of Mr van den Broek is perfectly in line with that. I think we understand each other very well in the spirit of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u242	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u243	I have one more question for the Foreign Minister. The previous point concerned the defence. My question is about the Mogherini plan that is to come. That is a very important strategic document. Maybe I can hear a little more about how the government is going to deal with this plan and what the commitment to the negotiations is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u244	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both Foreign Ministers for the answers they have given. Dietrich Bonhoeffer said that there is no road to peace on the road to security. In doing so, he outlined the dilemmas that have been frequently raised in this debate, in particular the considerations that have passed on to the nuclear deterrent strategy. Mr Van Kappen mentioned it: it is extremely uncomfortable to have to use these instruments, but it is also very difficult not to have them. That's what we're all struggling with; that's tricky. The Minister's answer to my question as to whether he is prepared to make a food strategy an integral part of the security strategy sounded encouraging, I must say, but it also contained some apparently contradictory elements. I'm trying to get a little more clarity in that. The Minister acknowledges that world food supply is crucial for global security. Yet I heard between the lines that it is not yet time to eat and that, when it is time to eat, there are a lot of different views about what we will eat. I was actually not looking for the menu, but rather for the integrated food strategy as part of the international security strategy. I want the commitment that the food strategy will really be part of the international security strategy, not as a choice menu of my personal preference but more as a strategy aimed at curbing global problems in the manner set out in the opinion of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. That can't possibly be too much to ask. Can the Minister make a clear commitment on this? Food is about climate change, deforestation, water scarcity, phosphate shortage, distribution issues and disturbed economic relations. In many cases, these problems result in refugee flows and problems between countries and population groups. In fact, there is no other way to control these problems but to eliminate the breeding ground of those problems. I would like to ask the Minister whether he wants to see this as an integral part of the security strategy. I have a few more questions about the Ukraine referendum. The Minister said that he cannot talk about substantive decision-making. I understand that, because that's in the bosom of the cabinet and it's hard to share that here. In addition to questions about the substantive consideration, more insight into the procedure has been requested. What does the Cabinet intend to do if it has made its decision? In what way does the cabinet intend to involve the First Chamber and the Second Chamber in the decision it takes on this matter? That's procedural. I would like to have an explanation of the way in which the motion Ganzevoort c.s. on the intensification of the 3D approach (33694, letter D) and the motion in part No. 32500-V, letter H on nuclear disarmament adopted unanimously in this House. Colleague Van Apeldoorn already recalled that. In April 2011, Minister Rosenthal sent a letter to the Chamber stating that the government would like to work for this purpose, but that it wants to be realistic at the same time. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat is inderdaad ook weer zo'n "enerzijds, anderzijds"-antwoord.]] The cabinet therefore wants to do this, but it also wants to adopt a realistic approach. That letter dates back five years ago, and that is why it is interesting to know what this commitment and this realistic approach has achieved in the five years to date. What's the prospect? How is the government going to proceed with this motion in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u245	Will the Minister be able to respond immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u246	I haven't received the second motion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u247	We have a copy here. It's coming your way. I note that the Minister wants a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u248	Madam President. I thank the senators for their second term contribution. I will answer the questions directly, partly on behalf of the Secretary of Defense. I will pass on to her the two points raised by Mr Knapen for further written answers. Mr Van Kappen and Mr Knapen asked whether cooperation in Europe could be more specific. Are we going to make them more specific? The intention of the Dutch Government is to have the common strategy, which we hope will be presented at the end of next month, followed by operationalisation in the field of defence. The matter they have asked for will be dealt with. This has to do with an extension of what is already at the forefront of the Netherlands, namely cooperation and division of labour between different armies with countries such as Belgium, Germany and the United Kingdom. Our cooperation with Germany is very intensive, as we know. That White Paper is not yet finished. This is expected in July, I say to Mr Van Kappen. I can't anticipate that. We are aware that in Germany there is an active reflection on structured cooperation in the CSDP. That is also what the Treaty provides for. I cannot anticipate that now, but it is clear that the Netherlands is very closely involved in what Germany is doing, also through diplomatic cooperation with Germany. I think that what the Minister of Defence has said is indeed part of a planned vision. After years of austerity, this cabinet has taken the responsibility to bring about a trend break. This applies not only to the defence sector, but also to peacekeeping, where 60 million were added last year. The first priority is operational readiness and the elements that are important for the armed forces to function, according to the objectives that we already have. That is a matter of urgency and priority. I think very few people will disagree with that. Of course, at the same time, there is a debate, both at national and international level, on priorities. I understand that the Chamber would like to anticipate this, but it is important that last year the Netherlands committed itself to the commitments made there at the Wales Summit. That's point one. That is not exactly the choice of words contained in Mr Kuiper's motion. The discussion on a multiannual financial framework has just begun in the Lower House, with a round table where no conclusions have yet been reached. There are also many technical questions that have to do with the role of Parliament in that multiannual framework. Is it possible to do that over the years or not? What does that mean for the House's budget right? Of course, there is also simply the 2016 budget. We will have to wait and see what decisions will be taken by the cabinet. We'll do that in August. Then the Chamber will see the translation into the Defence budget. This government is being asked to take a final position on it, while that discussion has just begun and before the 2016 budget is in place, which, of course, must also be seen in the light of the commitments made in Wales. That would also mean that we would rule a long way over our graves. I would therefore advise against Mr Kuiper's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u249	Too bad the Minister is doing exactly what I referred to at the beginning. This ends in the instrumentality that there should be a budget for 2017 and that Parliament should be dealt with. Yes, of course it is, but we, as well as authoritative institutions such as Clingendael, are talking about the need for a delta plan. We're signing a plan to come out in 2024. I ask nothing but to start by sketching an image of how we could do that. I said that the form is entirely up to the Minister. Let's see what such a long-term perspective can look like and what it needs. That is not taking a final position, but that is starting with a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u250	Of course, thinking doesn't stand still, especially with the DOD. I believe that the Secretary of Defense has clearly indicated that there have been previous reconnaissances. In the Lower House a discussion has just begun. So it is not a question at all that we would not want to make proposals for it. I'm just pointing out that the motion says something really different. It calls on the government to propose a multiannual financial framework for both chambers on Princes Day. That is quite different from what Mr Kuiper has just said. That's why I'm really gonna have to dissuade the motion. I would like to make a comment on a number of questions put by Mr Knapen. I don't know if the word "fragmentation" is appropriate. The world is complicated. In Africa you really have very different areas: the Horn of Africa, the Sahel and Southern Africa. The way in which Europe must respond to this varies from region to region. It is precisely with this strategy that we intend to map the problems by region and link them directly to a partnership, as I was allowed to do on behalf of Frederica Mogherini in West Africa. There are elements that also reflect our interests, such as migration and border control, as well as agreements on readmission and long-term development. The fact that you are doing something different there than in South Africa or in the Horn of Africa has something of fragmentation, but we want to see no longer closed frameworks in the areas of development cooperation, for example, and the European Union. No, we want politics, development cooperation and trade to come together much more in regional strategies. That is exactly what this strategy is about. This then naturally manifests itself in missions that are sometimes very small in character. Soon they'll say it's fragmented. For example, you have a European Union training mission for military training in Mali and Somalia. Yeah, that happens on the basis of an agreement, where other organizations do something else. I admit that this may create the impression of fragmentation, but you should only do it if it is part of a strategy in which the European Union not only writes, but also does something. In my view, this is also the issue with regard to China, which is, of course, a very different issue. On a number of points, the European Union has a very powerful role to play in this. I would like to mention the trade element: what is to be done in the WTO negotiations? What is China's position as a market economy country? That's a huge power. The European Union is much more of a civilian power than a political and a security political power. That means there's still a bit of a glitch there. Cooperation with the EU must be more than that in the fields of trade, investment and human rights. It needs to be more integrated. It is fair to say that there is, of course, competition between European countries. We're not one block. A country like Germany is very active on the Chinese territory. Their economic and their export profile are different from ours. At this time, we should continue towards an integrated foreign policy approach. I believe that this is also happening in Dutch politics. There are considerable differences in the degree of European integration, in the extent to which internal and external security is linked. So in that sense, the difference is greater than the agreement, but I think we need to defend a number of interests together. That is not yet a comprehensive answer to Mr Knapen's story. Of course, we will come back to that if we can actually offer our strategy to the Chamber. Then you can all check whether you like it or whether you say it has remained a bit fragmented. I certainly hope that the latter will not be the case, because that is not our commitment. Mr Van Dijk has asked a number of questions about the situation in Iran. Let me at least make it clear that, of course, it is much more about the nuclear deal with Iran. I see that deal as a great victory of diplomacy, at a time when we have very few victories of diplomacy. However, the large countries of the world, which normally have conflicting interests, have agreed on a very important point in international cooperation, namely that the risk of proliferation is so great and that at the same time this method is by far the wisest way to put an end to that problem. There's still a lot to go with that. Verification, control, no land on his blue eyes believe et cetera. However, problems such as human rights or ballistic missiles or other issues such as Iran, for example, remain not only a fundamental point of discussion with Iran, but also the sanctions that are related to these issues, are simply maintained. Then the jury is still out, as one says in good Dutch, about what that means for Iran's behaviour, for example, in the conflict in Syria. I think it's hard to prove whether it's contributed or not. This also depends very much on the internal relations in Iran. I hope to have a meeting with the Iranian Foreign Minister shortly. In any case, it does not mean that, because an implementation day has been established with regard to that nuclear deal, there would no longer be any discussion about, for example, the death penalty in Iran. We ourselves have also raised a number of issues with Iran, which have to do with the reason why this death penalty is usually implemented there, namely drug policy. In a number of areas, projects have been launched with Iran. In reply to Mr Dankert, I have already mentioned several elements in the field of defence. I would also like to leave that issue to the Secretary of Defense in a further discussion with this Chamber. It is not the case that talking about NATO, the European Union, the United Nations suddenly happens in a timely or priority setting. We have priorities in security policy, which are obviously related to the protection of national borders, so to speak, or the territorial integrity of the Netherlands. Of course, that always comes first. Of course, we have also entered into commitments in NATO. Nevertheless, it is at this time of many different types of threats but the question is which organization is best to defend our broader interests. Hence the importance which the Netherlands attaches to United Nations operations. I come to countries such as Lebanon and Jordan, but also to a number of other countries and begin bilateral relations. The Netherlands is quite active in those countries, in the financing of development cooperation, humanitarian aid, work with the private sector, work with the municipalities, public-private partnerships to help create jobs for Lebanese people who come from there as well as for people who have fled there. There is a package that is executed very heavily from the Netherlands. It is up to me and the European Union, not so much in the same way as with Turkey, but also financially and politically to enter into a partnership with those countries. That partnership must be implemented politically and financially, because they have a huge responsibility there, in a very different political setting than here, for a huge refugee problem. Then there are quite a few other elements. They have to do with the World Bank and the IMF, for example. Until now, the disadvantage for these countries has been that they have been graduated, are middle income countries, and therefore have very expensive loans. This has changed during the previous talks between the World Bank and the IMF. I don't know if it's wise to turn it into a partner country right now. I don't believe it. We have a group of partner countries. I do not know whether, apart from what we are already doing, this is a sensible decision in the division of labour in the EU and at national level, given comparative advantages. I should refer that to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I find it interesting what I have heard about the consensus building in the Netherlands. There are a number of elements that I share when I hear it like that. Indeed, there is always a relationship between domestic consensus and effectiveness abroad. By definition, it is. That consensus has not increased in the Netherlands. We have to invest in that. We are. I think we are very active in this, including in domestic politics, but it is different from what we used to be. It's not an explanation anymore. The time has passed when we say: we will explain to you once again that it is really important. I believe that time is over. You need to start new alliances. That is why a large part of my work is indeed within the Netherlands, in Den Bosch or in Utrecht. A position we are discussing here, about Turkey or Gaza, naturally also reflects Dutch society. In that sense, I very much agree with the plea I heard here. In this respect, I must apologize for Mr Van Dijk. There was another question about that Financial Action Task Force. It talks about the standardisation of international payments with Iran. Of course, Iran will have to comply with the rules on anti-terrorism financing. I would like to stress this in connection with what Mr Van Dijk said. I think Mr Schrijver is right that our international responsibilities simply cost money. So that's not spending money, but investing in your own safety and future, provided that you do it effectively and in a way that has to do with it. Then you're supposed to be talking about big spending. This has to do with defence as well as with security and missions, but also with development cooperation and humanitarian aid. I think that's really important. By the way, last year we also received 60 million extra funds for missions. However, it all remains a bit hairy. We are really reviewing foreign policy. This can be seen from the opening of new embassies and the way Foreign Affairs works in the field of cyber security, anti-terrorism, the Global coalition against terrorist finance and the whole 3D approach. There is a huge amount of investment at the moment in order to give that back a little strength. I think that is essential for the concerns that many Dutch citizens have. I am happy to take up the issue of the two UN resolutions. I think that is an important point. Can you make any further progress on the reflections on the two UN resolutions? One was specifically focused on combating terrorism, the other more on the general situation in Syria. I think we can pick that up. As far as I'm concerned, it's an explanation, but we can fight about that one more time. The most important thing is that we now have to move politically forward with what was agreed in March. Mrs Faber said that there was no mention of Islam. It would be wrong if that didn't happen. I thought I had brought that up on certain points myself. I didn't do that in the dominant sense like Mrs Faber. To be honest, I find it absurd to say that all the problems in the world are caused by Islam. If only that were gone, everything would be resolved. I think that is a simplism which Mrs Faber herself knows is absurd. That does not alter the fact that there is a huge problem that has to do with a struggle within Islam. Something has just been said about sectarianism. Of course, there is a struggle that has much more to do with different forms that are competing within Islam and can have serious external effects. That may indeed have something to do with terror. I don't have a problem with naming that. The question is whether we suddenly turn that into a religion. I'm sure you've been to Indonesia before, perhaps not, but that's the largest Muslim country in the world. There is also some sectarianism and fundamentalism, but it is a peaceful, democratic society. I'm not going along with the familiar story that it's a fifth column and that they're all wrong people. I find your motion fundamentally discriminatory. So I'm gonna take a great deal of distance from that. I would therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u251	I would like to make a comment. I didn't say they were all wrong people. I've been talking about Islam and not people. The motion does say something about dual nationalities, that is correct, but the thrust of my speech was not about wrong people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u252	Don't beat around the bush. I see here a motion which says 'whereas the Moroccan Dutch have the authority of the Moroccan consul outweighs the authority of the Dutch government'. How do you know that? Surely you don't know if all Moroccan Dutch think so? You're just stigmatizing people, discrimination, cornering them, you're responsible for a concept like "fifth column." You don't really think the Dutch government is dealing seriously with such a motion, do you? We strongly dissuade them. You can say every time it's not about people, but I just see what's in the motion. This is the first discriminatory motion that has been made in such sharp terms, so that we can only dissuade it. I really want you to be honest here. If you're talking about a fifth column, you're talking about people, not religion. A column is a group of people. According to you, they destroy the Netherlands. Then you have to be honest with me. You may, but you may have a lot of support for that. But you shouldn't tell me stories that you don't discriminate, that you don't stigmatize. You are using a term, "fifth column," which is very historically loaded. Let's be honest. You have to tell me what you think and don't tell me stories about a religion and not about people. It's just in your motion. So we advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u253	The Minister's response is precisely the problem we have. We don't see that huge elephant in the room, the Islam, standing. That's just a problem. We can go around that, but then you keep those problems. The problem started 1,400 years ago. Then Islam moved up from the Arabian peninsula and spread over the Middle East. There all the Jews and Christians were chased or murdered. That's all coming this way. That is not just a story, that has nothing to do with discrimination, that has to do with facts being named, including history. There we see that it is continuing and coming our way. I think we should just be able to name it. I also spoke about the airport in Brussels. Those are just facts. People there in security contributed to that very terrible situation that happened there. That has nothing to do with discrimination, but with the facts. As long as we don't name those facts, we're not gonna solve the problems either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u254	Ma'am, I'll let you name what you want, but you can't spread lies, and that's what you're doing. You can do that, you take responsibility for that, on behalf of a lot of people. You're acting like the Jews were all killed by the Muslims. You do not know your own European history. I'm a little faint about it. You can name facts, I do. I see the elephant in the room. I did not say at all that there is no problem with Islamic fundamentalism. That is what we are being called, and we are doing nothing but fighting it when it comes to ISIS. But you know damn well, as well as I do, that the term "fifth column" is discriminatory. You may find that all right, I have no problem with it, but do not expect me to have any respect for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u255	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u256	Yeah, they could knock on the benches here, but the point is, if you name the facts here, you're gonna get thrown away and discriminate or something like that. This is just how we're never gonna get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u257	That's what I'm afraid of. My interest is to have a debate with you, but then you must also acknowledge from me that if you think things are going around, I will tell you what we think. That's also an elephant in the room. As if you should never say that someone discriminates if he does so in a motion, because that's what you do. That's just discrimination. If that's what you think, we could make that motion. However, I do not think so. It is not true that we do not mention Islam in this debate, at least not in the way you find it. I do not believe that religion is the cause of all the problems in the world. You can tell people that, but it's just not true. There is a problem. We are going to name this together and see how we can deal with it. We disagree on that. However, you should not tell me that elephants are not appointed here in the Chamber. I come to Mr Van Apeldoorn's points. I believe that the promotion of the international legal order is essential. The international legal identity is there, but I don't understand what it has to do with a free pass. He's either here or he's not here. You agree or you don't think it's legal ID. You may find that, too, although hardly anyone thinks so. We do not agree on many things in international law, but we do agree on this point. I don't know a lawyer who says you can't. You may find it unwise, but if something is legally legitimized, this does not mean that you should do the same. There is a free political choice for that. I agree with the dilemma of bread or bombs in general. Let us invest much more in development, growth, innovation and food supply rather than in bombs, please. I'll tell you what, if people are killed and executed every day in a city like Fallujah, I'm not gonna throw some loaves. A military strategy will therefore have to be followed to put an end to these murders. It has a price, it has to be proportional, and there is room for considerable debate. Membership of Georgia and Ukraine is not on the agenda. There is an open-door NATO policy. It's the sovereign right. It does not mean that the rest of NATO will have to accept it automatically. The Netherlands is a very active player when it comes to nuclear weapons, both in the open working group, but also in making proposals in the various bodies of the first committee and in the light of the implementation of a number of motions in the Lower House that have to do with transparency. I do not agree with the fact that I cannot tell you here whether or not we have nuclear weapons in the Netherlands. I don't think that's right. I am not going to say whether this is the case or not, because I am keeping to the obligation of an organisation that we are part of. We are very active in changing that. A large number of points also have to do with nuclear arms control. What Mr Rosenthal said at the time is realistic. I'm not in favour of totally disarming nuclear one-sidedly. That seems risky to me in the light of safety. This doesn't mean you couldn't take steps in that direction. Nor does it mean that you should exactly mirror the Russian Federation's nuclear strategy. We are committed to reducing the role of nuclear weapons in nuclear strategies. The words that are there are also extremely remote. The "no first use" principle is a principle on which there is no consensus. No one in NATO is for that. This does not mean that the Dutch Government is not committed to reducing the role of nuclear weapons and the risks involved in the triad of resources we have. As far as I am concerned, these nuclear weapons negotiations could begin tomorrow in Europe. We try to propagate the idea that we also need a bit of a different side. Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen's questions about Frontex. The strength of Frontex depends on what the Member States themselves deliver. As with the UN or any other international organisation, its strength is determined by the financial, human and military resources you want to give to it. Frontex doesn't have its own staff. The organisation therefore depends on what the Member States deliver. We make a permanent contribution to Frontex. We have increased the contribution with the deployment of Border Security Teams on Chios and Lesbos. The new regulation on the European Border Guard will increase Frontex's potential. This regulation is intended to be finalised during the Dutch Presidency and will enter into force soon thereafter. In theory, NATO can carry out a wide range of tasks within the framework of international law, provided that the allies agree on a mandate. As is well known, the Netherlands is also involved in SNMG2 in the Aegean Sea. NATO vessels maintain close contact with the Greek and Turkish Coast Guard and Frontex. They are also responsible for intercepting illegal migrants. I could say a little more about this, also in view of the maritime presentation in the Mediterranean. It is all about situational awareness, but it is important for the problem in Libya. I haven't been to the Libya Summit. It is not always easy for a small country to be invited everywhere. We have now succeeded in doing so in the Middle East and in Syria. Of course, we are represented by the High Representative. The key question at the Libya Summit is how do we get these two sides together in Libya? This requires enormous diplomacy between the government that has just formed in Tripoli and on the other hand the eastern part of Libya. There have always been three parts in Libya. You had Tripolitana, Cyrenaica and Fezzan in the south. On the east side is a government of a slightly different cut. That's not an official government. It is therefore necessary to bring these parties together in order to jointly address ISIS or to pursue a common migration policy. That's what the Libya Summit was about. Countries such as Egypt and the United Arab Emirates are needed to achieve this. Cooperation with the United States has also been requested. There is indeed very close cooperation in the fight against terrorism. There are regular missions. The Netherlands has taken over the co-chairship in this area, including its financial aspects, from the Global Coalition. Mr Ten Hoeve asked about the contradictions within Islam. So that point has been raised. There are, of course, elements of sectarianism. They are often also politically motivated and then enlarged. It's often the only protection people have left. You get huge sectarian battles that are extremely negative. Countries such as Iran and Saudi Arabia also have a huge regional power struggle there. Given the time, I don't want to go into that now. We supply zero weapons to Saudi Arabia, even in 2016. I think we have about the most restrictive arms export policy. I do not see that we could approve anything at the moment. Sometimes there's something that makes you say, "There's gotta be gas masks to protect people." This is seen in civil defence, but in principle there is a very restrictive policy towards Saudi Arabia. The Netherlands really is a tiny player in this, because of its arms exports policy. With regard to arms exports to Libya, a change in a UN Security Council resolution is needed. That's not the issue right now. Venezuela's problem is a problem in itself. I can assure this Chamber that the Dutch Government is very vigilant about this. It looks at scenarios and questions like "what happens?', "What exactly is the situation in Venezuela?', "What is the risk of implosion?" and "are the refugees going north to the islands or to the neighbouring countries?'. There is also, of course, contact with the Venezuelan government. We just maintain that, because it is a neighbouring country that is less than 20 kilometers from Aruba, Curaçao and indeed Bonaire. The only thing I can say about that is that it really has a lot of government attention. I very much agree with what Mr Lintmeijer said about the reality check. That 3D approach is something that the Netherlands is very much focused on. In my view, this is also expressed in almost every policy in which we are also militaryly present. That's not an extra thing, but it's an integral part of it. I have just spoken about Syria and Iraq and the role of stabilisation in that. I have talked about the humanitarian situation, but also about how a country can then try to achieve inclusiveness in a different, less marginalising way. The lack of this has led to many conflicts. Mr Kuiper spoke about Mrs Mogherini. When the time comes, I would, of course, like to talk about this in more detail. I find it difficult to anticipate the exact outcome of this. Mr Koffeman said something about purchasing power, about eating time. Unfortunately, it's not dinner time for a lot of people right now. I actually wanted to say the following. We go to a planet where there are different scenarios about how many people live there, what the world food supply is and how that food is available. We do not know how this happens locally, what the role of international trade is and what the role of technology can play. How can you bring smaller farmers into a chain that actually has a future? That is a rather complicated problem, which I cannot discuss with this Chamber in the late evening. There are others who have a more direct responsibility for this. However, I can see that this must be part of that strategy. When it comes to future stability and conflict, which is part of it, Mr Koffeman is absolutely right. You can almost see that. Wherever you go, that's an issue. I only have to look at Egypt or even Syria, at the way in which climate change and the way in which agricultural markets have worked have been urbanised there. The same applies to West Africa. There are elements that have a direct relationship with conflicts, conflict prevention and so on. Two motions were tabled during the debate. I should look again at the motion on letter D on the 3D approach. I believe that we have sent a great deal of material about this and that is what is being done. I have just said that the motion on letter C on nuclear disarmament is being implemented proactively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u258	I'm asking anyone who wants to post another interruption to make it brief. I'll allow one interruption per person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u259	Mr. Chairman. Which one shall I choose! Sure, I'll be brief. I welcome the Minister's commitment that he is prepared to make the food strategy part of the security strategy. I'd like that to be worked out, too. It has been said so many times in a non-committal sense: 1.5 million people are added to this planet every week, we will have to do something with it, we cannot feed them all, we have to make choices about it. I think it is really important to link an integrated food strategy to that. That's also what the Scientific Council advised the Cabinet. I hope I understood the Minister correctly that he wants to do so. I have not tabled a motion or a deadline, but I would like the Minister to make this as a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u260	There are two elements in Mr Koffeman's words. Firstly, there is the food policy of the Dutch Government, as it is now taking shape in new initiatives by Secretary of State Van Dam in Europe and as it is designed by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Today's debate is about the relationship between food, food strategy and the international security task. Mr Koffeman says that this belongs together. I agree. This means that we are bringing the way in which we are trying to shape this in Europe to Mrs Mogherini. We will have to discuss later whether or not that has become something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u261	Mr President, you can also ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u262	The Minister said that airdropping, throwing food down from airplanes, has become a key part of the humanitarian aid approach. He says at the same time: we have played a very active role. Can he say anything more about what that role means? It's an important subject. After all, the humanitarian need is great in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u263	The airdrops were created partly through the financing of the Netherlands. The strategy meeting I was talking about said that we are now going to set a deadline, not only for the regime but also for others, to provide humanitarian access. If that doesn't work, we need an air bridge. I would like this to be followed up. The Netherlands cannot do that alone. There's a deadline. I thought the deadline was tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. I'm afraid to say it exactly. So we're proactively working on it. There's also some kind of red line. I cannot make promises in the sense that the Netherlands can do it. We're not gonna do that separately with a plane. It must, of course, be done in an international context. That was the point, even if it is not a point of the strategy, because in a sense it is sticking plasters. When you talk about depoliticisation, it should not become part of a constant negotiation between parties. It is not intended to say: you may go to that city, but then you may not go there, and if it is not allowed there, then that group may... that is not the point. The biggest sponsors of this peace talks are the Russians and the Americans. I can't wait to see what happens in their setting. As far as I'm concerned, something is happening, because it was agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u264	Mr Ten Hoeve, you can ask one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u265	I immediately believe that we are not supplying weapons to Saudi Arabia. America does, of course, do so on a very large scale. It is very late, so I will not ask the Minister to reflect on it in detail. I have heard from the press that Europe wanted to supply arms to the unitary government in Libya in order to give it the opportunity to act against smugglers. If the Minister says that none of that is true because it is not allowed by the United Nations, then I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u266	No, it's true and it's not true. We want to do it, at least European countries want the arms embargo on the government currently in Tripoli to be lifted. These people are now in a naval base and cannot even protect themselves, let alone start forming a government, let alone be able to organise a coastguard later. Of course, it does not go blind and without controls. There's not a ship with guns all at once. I am even in favour of maintaining the arms embargo. We need to check that, also in view of the weapons going to ISIS. With this, I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-eerstekamer-4.u267	I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer. We will vote on the motions next Tuesday.
