ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Humor, mockery, satire and insult are inextricably linked to the wide freedom of expression that Dutch people enjoy and also cherish. This freedom applies in particular to cabaretists, cartoonists and other participants in the social debate. In addition to the free press, they play an important role as watchdog of and mirror for rulers in the Netherlands and beyond. Power must be mocked and mocked. We do not need to like it or taste it, but we must defend it without hesitation. In order to prevent foreign leaders from using an archaic article of law, which grants them greater protection than the rest of us, I have the following question to the Minister. Does he share these views of the VVD and is he prepared to act on them by deleting the relevant articles from the Code of Criminal Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Taverne for asking this question. I fully agree with him that freedom of expression is a great asset in the democratic society we cherish with each other. A democratic society presupposes a free social debate in which everyone can express their thoughts freely. This freedom of expression is the cornerstone of a pluralist society and a vibrant democracy. The right not only protects ideas that are received positively or indifferently, but also expressions that may be perceived as offensive, shocking, disturbing. This is particularly true when these expressions contribute to the social debate. That's what they're often meant for. This also applies to the publication of cultural or artistic expressions and, of course, to journalistic freedom in a similar sense. Let me make it quite clear: this cabinet stands for freedom of expression and also for the possibility of using cabaret, satire or political drawings after the last few months I can talk a great deal about its importance. I would also like to point out that this is a way of condemning alleged abuses. However, I think we should note that perhaps there has never been a period in the Netherlands in which as much could be said in public as is currently the case. The right to freedom of expression serves the debate and thus the truth in society. Mr Taverne said that we have an article in the law specifically referring to friendly heads of state. For the last time, we discussed this in the Chamber in 1976. At that time, it was concluded that it was a useful article, also in the international context and also in view of a number of important international issues at the time. On the one hand, we must note that the Code of Criminal Law is never meant to be a museum for articles of the law that have become obsolete. On the other hand, I think that we should also note in the Netherlands that the Public Prosecutor's Office has the independent role to assess independently when such a complaint comes in whether prosecution is useful, desirable and necessary. I am prepared to consider whether and, if so, when this particular article can be removed from our Criminal Code. I was just talking about a museum. We have more articles in the Code of Criminal Law that you can ask yourself are we using it on a daily basis. Maybe we can renovate the museum in one go, so look at all the rooms at the same time and see what can get out of it. However, we can also do it display case for display case. Perhaps it is a good idea to start thinking with the display case of the articles Mr Taverne points out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you to the Minister for his answer, which I follow but which raises new questions at the same time. I naturally agree with the Minister that it is precisely in a country where powers are separated that the public prosecutor and later the judge should have a first role in assessing the persecuability of the offences on which the Code of Criminal Law is based in this case. I am also pleased to hear that the Minister is prepared to deal with the articles that deal with the insult of friendly Heads of State. I am a little concerned that the Minister is using the phrase 'to look at whether articles should be deleted'. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, that is not a question. In our opinion and probably also in the majority of this Chamber, given the reactions of the last few days, the answer is already clear. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to let the Chamber know as soon as possible when he will delete the articles in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have that willingness. I shall also look at the discussion that took place in 1976. What were the arguments on the basis of which people said they needed it? I will also raise the question when we have used it in recent years. What role have these articles played or not? I'll try to inform the Chamber about this at the end of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	This is my last opportunity to ask the Minister another question. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but I think there is a little too much room in it. It may still result in a letter in which there will undoubtedly be very readingable reflections on the past and the possibilities for the future, but the Court has previously expressed the wish to delete articles and experience has shown that this always takes a little longer than necessary. I would therefore like to hear the following from the Minister. Is he prepared to send a letter to the Chamber this week indicating which articles he will delete and giving an indication of when he will do so? In this way, the legislation before it can pass the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	I understand the urgency behind Mr Taverne's question very well, but I am sure he also agrees that I, as a minister, should take advantage of the opportunity to have Mr Taverne's thought-forming exercise taken place with me. Maybe Mr. Taverne will do that a little faster than I do. I really want to look very closely at the freedom of expression in relation to the discussion in 1976 and the article and the use we have made of it. I'm going to do my utmost to send that letter to the Chamber by the end of this week. If that does not work, I will let the Chamber know why it did not succeed and when I will send that letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr Taverne announced a motion and put an oral question on the subject. The Minister says he's going to send a note to the Chamber. Of course, we can also arrange it a little more directly and harder, namely by having the Chamber itself submit an initiative law. Leave it just ready to submit to D66 on the shelf! There's just a little more in it. Our proposal is not only an insult to the friendly head of state, which Mr Taverne mentioned, but also an insult to his own head of state. I wonder if it will help the Minister to get some speed in the process if D66, so to speak, submits that bill tomorrow. How does the Minister view the deletion of the article concerning the insult of his own head of state, our own Majesty? Then we can hit two birds with one stone. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	It is up to the Court to decide when it intends to submit an own-initiative proposal. It is good practice to discuss every initiative legislative proposal in the Council of Ministers and then to formulate a common position. This will also be the case in this case. Mr Verhoeven will understand that I am not ahead of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	It would be good if the relevant articles were deleted. Okay, let's do something else. Last week, I tabled a motion calling on the Chamber to force the Prime Minister as President of the EU to abandon Erdogan when it comes to his policy, to interfere in freedom of expression. When I hear the VVD like this, that motion will certainly be adopted and she will support it. The Minister is President of the EU with the government. He is also chairman of his own committee. Is he prepared to discuss with his colleagues at the next meeting the restriction of freedom of expression that is now taking place by Erdogan in Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	I have been given a number of assignments and requests from the Chamber to discuss at the forthcoming JHA Council. I think I'll talk to the room about that tomorrow. They also see them on a number of adopted motions in the Chamber. I propose that I at least put my energy into that part, particularly because of the fact that, of course, the Members of the Court of Justice do not have the direct responsibility which Mr Bontes is referring to. At least I'm gonna do the work I've already gotten from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	Your second question, Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	It is a very good time, now that the Netherlands is President of the EU. The Minister plays an important role in this. He can put that on the agenda. I urge him once again, in view of the limitation of freedom of expression and of the discussion that has just taken place with Mr Taverne: please put it on the agenda, because it seems rather weak to let it go this way now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	I think it is good to keep these kinds of issues with the ministers who are talking about them. In this case, of course, these are the Foreign Ministers in particular. They also have their own Council. Mr Bontes also knows that Minister Koenders has spoken many times on similar matters and certainly also on freedom of the press in other countries outside the European Union. So I think it's in his very trusted hands.
