ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	Mrs Gesthuizen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, was the only speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Because this morning I got into a mess with time and therefore couldn't file my last motion, I'm now going to start filing the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Chinese steel producers have been dumping large-scale steel on the European market for some time, that the European steel industry has been in difficulties for a long time and that employment in this sector is under pressure;]] [[also noted that the European Union limits the effectiveness of import charges by applying the Lesser Duty Rule and that the President of the European Commission recently called for action to be taken against dumping as vigorously as the US;]] [[calls on the Government to call for the rapid adaptation of the European Commission's trade defence instruments so as to create the possibility of not applying the Lesser Duty Rule if the survival of the raw materials and manufacturing industry is threatened by dumping or other forms of unfair competition;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether this possibility should be created for all sectors of the economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-384]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	I should simply like to end by saying that I look forward to the response of the Minister of Finance to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	The Minister already has the motion in his possession and can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, prepared myself extensively for this debate and I had also prepared myself for a question about toasters, but I think I can put that part of my answer away. This is not a provocation, by the way. At least it's not meant to be. Mrs Gesthuizen has tabled a motion on the dumping of steel on the European market. That is a real problem. As a result, it would like to call into question the European Union's policy on import tariffs known under the good Dutch name "lesser duty rule' (hereinafter referred to as "lesser duty rule'), so that Europe can impose higher rates to combat dumping practices. The big question that is being raised here is whether this is in the Dutch interest. The Netherlands is an exporting country and has a wide range of business and business interests to consider. That is why we have always been in favour of this approach. The lessonr duty rule means that you impose the lowest possible rate that effectively protects against dumping, so that you do not end up in an overreaction or in a trade war. It may be attractive to sometimes ignore that and strike harder, but that is absolutely not in the interest of the broad position of the Netherlands as an exporting country. We really need to be cautious and as effective as possible. Minister Ploumen will send a letter to the Chamber in October on the functioning of the Lesser Duty Rule. We've been promised that before. It indicates how that Lesser Duty Rule works, whether it is effective and how it is. I think it would be a good idea, on the basis of this debate, to take a more fundamental and wide-ranging approach rather than, at the present time, abandoning this approach ad hoc and possibly opportunistically. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	What bothers me in this argument is that, of course, the motion does not state that we should immediately move towards a maximum import charge when the Chinese steel industry dumps steel with state aid worldwide and therefore in Europe. The Minister calls it a trade war, but I'm just saying very flatly "at the time we're being attacked." It is unfair competition and our steel industry suffers a great deal from it. It does not say that we must move towards maximum import rates. It just says that we want to make it possible not to apply the Lesser Duty Rule. That's not possible right now. I honestly do not understand that there will be such a severe rejection of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	I also did not suggest that Mrs Gesthuizen wants to impose the maximum rates immediately. She does want to remove the healthy brake that is contained in the Lesser Duty Rule. I think you have to face that in the interests of the whole of Dutch industry and the economy. We have to be careful to do something ad hoc right now. For that is clearly expressed in the recitals of the motion: there is now an acute reason, so we would now like to impose higher rates. That is the portee of this motion and that is why Mrs Gesthuizen is questioning the Lesser Duty Rule. The line of the cabinet would be: let us first consider whether this rule, this approach laid down in European legislation, is actually in the interests of the Netherlands, in the broad and longer term. That's why we don't like the order. First of all, let us have a fundamental debate on whether this rule works. Is this one in our favor? What are the advantages and disadvantages of lifting them? That is what we need to talk about before we say: move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	Then I'm forced to hold the motion. If the motion is put to the vote, I would, of course, like it to be adopted, if only because I see that a significant part of the European steel industry is not doing well. The Netherlands, too, is likely to take the hits. This process has even been going on for a number of years. There is unfair competition, because it is simply possible to sell below cost with state aid. Of course, there are also people who benefit from it. However, I see that this is not being combated at the moment with the present defensive instruments. Perhaps it could be done, then we will have to adapt the rules a little bit, but at the moment it is not being effectively combated. So I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	At the request of Mrs Gesthuizen, I propose her motion (2151-30, No. 384). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr President, allow me to make one comment, otherwise the view of the listeners at home will remain that nothing is happening in this area. 39 measures have already been taken for different segments of steel quality. You can argue with each other about whether it's enough. Shouldn't we go faster? Furthermore, Minister Ploumen also believes that this type of action should be speeded up. The rest of the discussion is based on the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	I thank the Minister of Finance for coming to the Chamber. We are not going to vote because the motion has been held.
