ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, the Members and anyone who is watching or listening in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. A warm welcome to the Secretary of State for Finance, also on behalf of this loner here. Today we are talking about the tax unit of Article 15 of the Corporate Tax Act 1969. This is the main tax planning instrument that taxpayers have in corporate tax (Vpb). Fiscal consolidation makes it possible that not all your actions within a group lead to tax consequences. This has nothing to do with unwanted tax avoidance, but with the elimination of unwanted tax side effects, just as with couples who are fiscal partners and can therefore do a limited piece of tax planning. It is only a pity that we are going to amend our legislation because the European Court of Justice is ruling. It does seem to me that Brussels is interfering with our tax legislation, even though I know and realise that it is about freedom of movement between Member States. But if we change something, let's do it right. The proposed amendments are the result of the Papillon judgment. I can support the amendments subject to a number of technical questions, which I will put to the Secretary of State. At the core, our fiscal unitary regime remains in place. Entities not established in the Netherlands will also not be able to form part of a Dutch corporate tax unit in the new regime. However, what I am concerned about is the possible consequences of a completely different judgment of the Court of Justice of the EU, namely the so-called Group Steria judgment. The Secretary of State says that the possible consequences of this need not be discussed because it may take years before new questions from the Supreme Court have been answered on this so-called per-element approach. I would not find that per-element approach to be correct and could have major adverse effects on the Treasury. After all, when each taxable person can freely choose which transactions he wants to make through a tax unit, the gate of the dam is. The real solution to this is to make the cross-border tax unit fully possible, as you will then have mandatory pluses and minuses in the tax unit. Can the Secretary of State answer the question as to why the potentially very serious financial consequences of the Steria Group judgment have so far been completely disregarded? I come to my technical questions on the proposed amendments. First, the scope of Article 15ac (5) Corporate Tax Act. The purpose of this article is to prevent taxable persons who are part of a Vpb tax unit from being able to collect de facto untaxable profits from internal financing costs abroad. The object exemption from foreign profit is then calculated as if those internal financing costs were reflected in the tax unit, but, for example, internal rental and royalty payments are not included. Also according to a recent judgment of the Hoge Raad in the Netherlands, the tax authorities fish behind the net in these examples. Does it therefore not deserve a recommendation to extend the scope of Article 15ac (5) to all internal usage fees in addition to financing costs within a tax unit Vpb? Secondly, Article 15ac (8) of the Vpb 1969 Act must resolve the problem of impaired claims with cross-border tax units, with the ratio of course to the prevention of double loss. Then there would be a double dip. Article 15ac (8) really combats double loss in cross-border tax units of sister companies, Papillon fiscal units and in tax units with a foreign tax liability body. However, double loss is still possible with a Dutch tax unit between a parent and subsidiary, where a second subsidiary is not included in that tax unit but itself has a claim against the subsidiary. The write-down of that claim involves double loss, both within that tax unit and through that unattached subsidiary. Why is this distinction maintained? Why isn't this hole, which already exists, being closed right away? In addition, Article 15ac (8) refers to the term "similar assets" in addition to amounts receivable. In tax practice, there is uncertainty as to the exact meaning and scope of the term "similar assets." So my question is what is meant by that. Thirdly, Article 13 (17) of the 1969 Corporate Tax Act should prevent double dips, the double benefit of deduction, when people want to use hybrid instruments. We also have Article 13 (12) in the Vpb Act. In doing so, the Netherlands applies the participation exemption to investments in immovable property that are not classified as free investments, precisely because in almost all the tax treaties of the Netherlands the tax on immovable property is allocated to the State in which that property is situated. However, Article 13 (17) does not take that into account. Paragraph 17 excludes allowances which may be deducted from the exemption from participation. In quite a number of states, including not the smallest ones, such as Japan and the US, dividends from real estate are actually deductible. If the recipient body of such a deductible dividend is established in the Netherlands, the participation exemption would be waived by applying paragraph 17. Thus, de facto benefits from foreign real estate are taxed in the Netherlands. That's contrary to our agreements. This is where the shoe really wrings. Can the Secretary of State undertake to look at this case, especially with countries such as Japan, the US, South Africa, South Korea and the Philippines as examples of states where dividends from property entities are deductible? Article 13 (17) may even give rise to double taxation if, by its nature, a remuneration is deductible in another Member State, then paragraph 17 comes to the fore, but de facto is not deductible, for example, an interest rate affected by a deduction limitation and not deducted from the profit. So I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to this overkill of Article 13 (17).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u3	We have received a whole paper on Article 13 of the Vpb. I understand that a consequence could be that the Netherlands is taxing property abroad. Mr Van Vliet is always so concerned about the Dutch tax base. Why would the Netherlands wake up sleeping dogs at this point? If we can raise tax revenues on this point, leave it to other countries to fight this. Mr Van Vliet is making an effort for the cart of other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u4	I am certainly very concerned about the tax base in the Netherlands. Mr Groot has a point to make in this regard. But it's not like I'm getting worked up for the cart of other countries. I am thinking precisely of the position of the Netherlands. The Netherlands has concluded a lot of bilateral tax treaties. I am very much in favour of that. However, you will have to comply with the agreements contained therein. One of the characteristics of the recurring agreements is that property taxation has been assigned to the State in which the real estate is physically located. By the combination of Article 13 (17) and Article 13 (12) in the Law of 1969, you are undermining these agreements. In the end, you'll undermine your entire fiscal heritage, where those tax treaties belong. We should not want that, especially since Article 13 (17) could lead to overkill and even double taxation in the examples given. I'm never in favour of that, ever. The short answer is therefore: I am not so much concerned with the fiscal position of the states I mentioned as with the fiscal position of the Netherlands. Fourthly, Article 15ad of the 1969 Corporate Tax Act is directed against excessive financing in takeover holding companies. That is a fine thing; I was already a great supporter of Article 15ad. However, this article may be affected by the further elaboration of the BEPS agreements, as the State Secretary himself writes. Let me give you the example of the earnings stripping. These are all difficult terms, but the bottom line is that a reduction in interest relief, as defined in Article 15ad, may become superfluous by means of other arrangements. When Article 15ad of the Law Vpb 1969 was introduced, the government made a firm commitment to the parliament that acquisitions made before 15 November 2011 are not affected by the interest deduction limitation of the new Article 15ad. It has been specifically promised that Article 15ad will not be taken into account if a tax unit established before 15 November 2011 is subsequently incorporated into a new or larger fiscal unit with the new parent company. This transitional right would now be reversed, which would result in a reduction in interest relief, while creating confidence that this would not happen in that situation. The material retroactive effect of the withdrawal of this transitional right is a serious threat to taxpayers. In this debate, I would like to receive the State Secretary's undertaking that this specific, firm commitment to this transitional right will remain in place and that the withdrawal will therefore only look at new changed fiscal unit situations from 1 January 2017. Last but not least, I have a brief question: does the Secretary of State expect that discussions about cross-border tax units in corporation tax could also have consequences for the practice of Article 7 (4) of the 1968 Tax Administration Act, i.e. the VAT Tax Unit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u5	Mr. Chairman. Each year, the Tax Administration issues about 9,000 decisions to tax unit. That's quite a number. Now that the tax unitary regime is being stretched by the European judge, it is not surprising in my view to want to know how much money that regime is costing the state treasury. Turns out what? The Secretary of State has no idea. That worries me. Is the Secretary of State prepared to find out, or at least to make an attempt to do so? In response to the questions we have asked about this, he says that it is not possible because the distribution of tax profits between the associated companies is not known. My logical question then is: can he look at a system with which that is possible? If one company is based in the Netherlands and the other company abroad, then you really want to know what the distribution of profits is and don't want to be dependent on the fact that a tax unit has been chosen, which means that it is no longer maintained. You always want to know whether profits fall in one country or another, regardless of the choice of a tax unit. How else do you find out whether the tax unit is mainly used to set up constructions to pay as little tax as possible? The amount involved in the tax unit does not seem to be small. The Secretary of State replied to the questions put by Mr Grashoff and myself that in the United Kingdom a gross profit of GBP 393 billion is deducted from GBP 99 billion because of the group relief scheme. So it really is a huge amount of money. I have a few questions about this. Is it true that the Netherlands is the only Member State that offers full fiscal consolidation? Is my assumption correct that the Dutch regime therefore goes beyond the British group relief regime? If so, is it likely that the fiscal attachment of the fiscal unitary regime in the Netherlands is comparatively larger than in the United Kingdom? I would like the Secretary of State to give me an undertaking that he will try to find out what the tax unit regime costs annually. The adjustment of the tax unit has already been decided in response to the Court's rulings in 2014, in which the adjustments have already been made as we now have in the form of a legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u6	Do I understand from Mr Merkies' speech that his block on the somewhat broader question of the usefulness and necessity of the tax unit regime is now closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u7	That is a bit through my whole story, but I would be happy to answer a question from Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr Van Vliet may ask a question if he wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u9	Fine, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u10	Do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u11	I tasted a little from the words of Mr Merkies that the instrument of the fiscal unit could also have some kind of unpleasant side-taste and perhaps, above all, could lead to all kinds of undesirable tax facilities, or that it could be an undesirable tax facility at all. Can Mr Merkies respond to that? Did I taste that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u12	Let me start by saying that I also see the advantage of the administrative burden relief and of the fact that you only have to make one declaration. That is good, but we also know that it can be a side effect, especially if you cross borders of countries, that you can slide. Of course, there are possibilities in that. I will come back to that in the rest of my story. I am indeed concerned about possible tax avoidance structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u13	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u14	We're doing interruptions in two tonight, Mr. Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u15	Yeah, this is my second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u16	The second? No, we can all count! Mr Merkies is continuing his story. I'm sure there'll be another moment when you can interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u17	I had such a nice thing!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u18	Now I am curious, but well, Mr Van Vliet will do so in his next interruption. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about the communication to the Chamber about that decision I just mentioned in 2014? We looked back a little while when we were told. We found it in the State Journal, but we haven't been able to find the documents in which it was sent to the Chamber. There is a sum of 126 million involved, which was not in the Official Journal at the time. So is this the first time that we are told, with retroactive effect, that it costs 126 million? That's a hell of a lot of money, isn't it? I'm getting the impression that the Chamber was out of play here. This, of course, concerns the previous Secretary of State, I say immediately. But could we not have been better informed about the amount of money involved? Shouldn't the Chamber have been more actively informed about this at all? That is, of course, because we can still see at such a time whether we can solve this in another way. The decision was made very quickly, actually under pressure from those lawsuits, but you could have reasoned the other way. For example, we could have reconsidered whether we should continue the fiscal unit in this way. The question is therefore whether, in response to the ruling of the European Court of Justice, the money-buidel was not drawn very quickly in order to increase the burden on international companies. Why hasn't other regimes been looked at abroad? For example, we asked whether the English group relief scheme had also been looked at, but it has not even been investigated, as the Secretary of State knows how to report to us. Then, of course, the question is: why not? An expansion of the fiscal unitary regime was immediately launched, which may involve "tax planning" possibilities. Those last words are not mine. They're from the Secretary of State himself. He writes: it is difficult to oversee all possible situations and all possible transfers to other tax regimes, such as the participation exemption. I believe that he wants to keep an eye on the situation immediately or that there will be undesirable situations, but to what extent is sufficient monitoring possible? For example, do we have the necessary data for this in a moment? I am also asking this question in view of the limited capacity of the Tax Administration. Can the Secretary of State clarify this a little bit? Who is going to carry out that monitoring and how much capacity is needed for that? Is it also possible that many more applications will follow tax unity after these adjustments? And how much capacity is already available for viewing all those 9,000 tax unit decisions that are issued annually? I would like to get a clear response to this, because I am somewhat concerned that we are doing something here with the best of intentions that we cannot fully see.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u19	When I hear Mr Merkies of the Socialist Party like that, I get the idea that almost all companies are big crooks, while of course this scheme is also very much used by our own SMEs. Mr Merkies hinted at the possible abolition of fiscal unity. Does he have any idea what the consequences would be for SMEs in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u20	First of all, Mrs De Vries did not hear me say that all the big companies are crooks. So that's entirely up to her. I am merely quoting the words used by the Secretary of State himself. Fortunately, he recognises that there are "tax planning" possibilities. Then it is important to map them as quickly as possible, so that we do not lose any more money. It's a big amount of money. Of course, I cannot assess the impact of the other possibilities. Why not? Because I don't know exactly what those other possibilities are either. That's what we've been asking about. For example, we have asked what it is like in other countries, and it has not really been investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u21	Finally, Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u22	In that case, I find it very strange that you do not know what the consequences are for SMEs, and that you are actually proposing that this tax unit should be abolished. Then I am really curious about the reasoning behind the SP. I find that incomprehensible if you do not know what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u23	Once again, Mrs De Vries puts words in my mouth that I have not said. I did not say that we should abolish it. I just want to know those alternatives first. It seems as if this possibility was immediately pre-sorted, which means a direct reduction in the burden of 126 million for business. You can make that choice, but I would have liked to have seen the alternatives in a row. But that study doesn't seem to have been made. Mrs De Vries cannot blame me for not carrying out this study, because it is logical that this should be done at the Ministry of Finance. As far as possible undesirable consequences are concerned, I would ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to introduce an evaluation exercise three years after the introduction of this law. It is right that the Secretary of State should respond to the danger of double loss and try to avoid this problem. According to the professors De Vries and Van Eijk, this was only partially achieved. They write in the weekly Tax Law that, under certain conditions, double loss is possible. In fact, even under the original scheme, double loss was already possible. Mr Van Vliet has just spoken about it. The authors also come up with some examples of how a loss can be taken into account twice. They wonder why the legislator in the design of Article 15ac (8) has once again chosen him for a rather limited interpretation of the concept of 'double loss'. I would like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State. Does he also see that double loss is and remains possible? Does he intend to fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is pleased that the cabinet chooses to retain the tax unit for companies. As a result, a simple corporate tax return remains in place. That is a good thing as far as we are concerned. The maintenance of the fiscal unit is good for Dutch companies and the SMEs that use it. 97% of all attached subsidiaries belong to the SME segment of the Tax Administration. Companies can therefore make one tax return. This leads to lower administrative burdens in business. That's what the VVD, as we know, is always for. It also reduces implementation costs for the Tax Administration itself. Concern formation is not prevented because the tax treatment would then suddenly become different. In general terms, the Dutch regime of the fiscal unit is therefore also important for the Dutch locational climate. That too is positive, because that is good for our economy. In the end, this will lead to more work and more companies. The tax unit for companies is not much different than the fact that citizens as tax partners can report together for their income tax. I cannot therefore understand that there are parties who would like to see fiscal unity abolished. That, as I said, is bad for our businesses, bad for SMEs and therefore bad for jobs. Are we going to do that for our citizens? Not about the VVD. The cabinet chooses a responsible extension for companies to comply with court rulings. The adjustment is necessary because of three judgments of the European Court of Justice, namely that the Dutch regime of the corporate tax unit was in breach of European law. Of course, that has to be resolved. The VVD is against paying double taxation by companies. The VVD is certainly against double loss by companies. Both are undesirable. It is therefore a good thing that the Tax Unit Adaptation Act contains measures to prevent that double loss. We are quite right to do so. The cabinet expects the bill to be sufficiently constructive, but it is good that it will follow developments closely in practice. The original proposal also had a major disadvantage, which meant that no loss could be made at all on balance. Also this the VVD finds undesirable. The VVD therefore welcomes the second letter of amendment, which regulates an amendment of the legislative text for such cases. Then I'll get to the 95% possession requirement. It is strange that it is not included in the previous policy decision and suddenly it is included in the law. This is certainly acidic for companies that were within the policy decision, but no longer within the law. What exactly is the reason for the amended proposal and the 95% requirement for possession? What are the consequences of introducing this requirement for companies? Which companies are affected by this? The Secretary of State shields with an increase in execution costs. What amounts are we talking about? Is this just for the IRS? It is ultimately about security for companies, because companies hate an unpredictable and fickle government. A two-year transitional arrangement has also been agreed. We would like to know why this two-year period has been chosen and whether this is really enough. What are the consequences if the transitional regime is extended, for example financially? Finally, of course, this adjustment costs money. The VVD was not very happy with the selected occasional coverage from the AWf premium in 2016, but understands that it is not possible otherwise in the short term. As far as the VVD is concerned, the adjustment should not lead to a higher Vpb rate, because the Netherlands must remain competitive for our companies, for our SMEs and therefore for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr. Chairman. Our tax laws are very complicated. We have hundreds of complicated tax laws, and of them the Law on Corporate Tax 1969 is the absolute champion. Today we see this again in the treatment of the Tax Unit Adjustment Act. Science and tax advisory offices often complain that it is politics or overzealous officials who make the laws so complicated. Sometimes it is, but the cause is also with the tax advisory practice itself. That is where a constant search is taking place to ensure that the obligation to pay taxes is as minimal as possible. This leads to legal proceedings, and if they are won, this leads to repair legislation. And that's how the system gets more and more complicated. Today is another example of this. Of course, I do not want to detract from the ruling of the European Court of Justice, which has held that companies with intermediaries abroad are disadvantaged in the possibility for subsidiaries and sister companies to form a fiscal unit. However, this ruling leads to new complex legislation, which in turn invites new constructions. This law has already been the subject of extensive written consultations. On the basis of the discussion conducted, the Labour Party can justify that the cabinet chooses to maintain the doctrine of the tax unit. Thanks to this tax unit, Mrs De Vries said it, businesses can make a tax return once, losses can be offset among themselves and the process for EU/EEA organisations becomes easier. I do have one more question. Does it make sense to leave the choice of a tax unit exclusively to the companies themselves? If a company sees bankruptcy with a subsidiary, can that subsidiary be removed from the tax unit so that the parent company does not pay for the tax debts that are left behind? We paid a visit yesterday. This showed that there is shopping in tax units. In other words, is the Secretary of State prepared to think, even if it is a thought experiment, but I hope that it goes beyond the one about making the choice for a fiscal unit less non-committal? Doesn't the tax unit we know now give too much room for cherrypicking and porridge fishing at the expense of other taxpayers? This repair law cannot prevent another gap in profit tax, this time of structural 41 million. It is important for us that the coverage is found within the domain of profit tax itself. I have two more questions. This bill removes the unfair treatment of non-resident groups within Europe. It is a question of equal treatment between domestic and foreign companies. However, our tax treaties with countries outside Europe also contain non-discrimination rules. Can the Secretary of State take care that this bill will have a wider scope of application and therefore cost the Treasury more money? Finally, I would like to ask my second question. The written consultation shows that the consequences of the ruling of the European Court of Justice are not yet fully understood. I read this as follows: new setbacks for the treasury are certainly not excluded. How is the Secretary of State going to inform the Chamber when new tax constructions arrive? And how is rapid repair legislation organised? I say this in connection with Groupe Steria, which Mr Van Vliet just mentioned. Indeed, that judgment has a broader scope and may lead to even greater gaps in corporate taxation for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u26	I heard Mr Groot say in his speech that the tax unit regime may have to be made less voluntary and that the initiative should be put more into the Tax Administration. In the Netherlands we have a model in which the inspector himself can issue a decision which obliges you to enter a tax unit, especially in the case of sales tax. So that actually already exists. At the Vpb you also have the instrument fraus legis, in case you would do something weird in the face of bankruptcy. I am asking Mr Groot a somewhat similar question as I asked Mr Merkies earlier. Mr Groot made a speech in which he pointed out that tax unity, tax planning and so on would all cost money again. Is the PvdA in favour of the most important tax planning instrument we have in the Netherlands? In other words, can Mr Groot say 'yes' to a model for the tax unit in the Vpb?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u27	I have already answered that. I believe, like Mr Merkies, that this matter will give rise to further discussion. In the written procedure, detailed arguments have been given and we have come to the conclusion that the doctrine of the tax unit remains fully valid and desirable. But, of course, you have to avoid abuse situations, which is why I have also made comments about the degree of non-committality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u28	That's good. I thank Mr Groot for that clear answer. I heard both him and Mrs De Vries talk about reducing administrative burdens if you are part of a fiscal unit. I do not think, however, that this is a decisive argument, because the tax unit's tax return may be more complicated than ten separate declarations. I think it's mostly about preventing unwanted tax problems when you deal with each other in the group. However, I think Mr Groot's speech is convincing enough, so I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u29	I note in abundance that we see no reason to interfere with the fiscal unit as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. As my colleagues have said, we are talking today about the extension of the fiscal unitary regime in corporation tax. The question of whether a tax unit can be established is no longer relevant in which EU country the parent company is located. Dutch companies with a European parent company can also form a fiscal unit without this parent. It is fair to say that this generous extension was not conceived by the Secretary of State himself, but that the European Court of Justice has given a boost to this. We are now getting two additional forms of fiscal unit: the sister-fiscal construction, two Dutch sister companies that hang under a foreign parent company, and a so-called "Papillon-fiscal unit," a Dutch parent company with a foreign subsidiary, the latter of which again has a Dutch granddaughter company. The aim is to ensure that these new tax units are as consistent as possible with the system of the current tax unit. After all, the current system of fiscal unity is very important in our corporate tax system, especially for SMEs. As the State Secretary previously wrote, 97.5% of subsidiaries in a tax unit belong to SMEs. It also leads to administrative burden relief. Honesty dictates that the proceeds go a little bit more to the big business. The tax unit therefore originated from the principle of justice. If companies belong to a group of companies, it is not fair to tax them separately. For example, take a flower company with a holding company, a working company and an e.g. with a business property. Those are three companies on paper, but actually there is only one company. If only the flower business makes a profit and the business property loss is made by, for example, depreciation, maintenance costs or for other reasons, it is unfair to tax the profits, while the losses are not deductible on the sale of the property. Fiscal unit ensures that there is a fair outcome among groups. Even if the asset is transferred within the group, it is unfair to tax already as if the asset had been sold. The same applies to transactions between themselves. Moreover, there is only one declaration to be made with a tax unit. As I said, it saves a lot of administrative burdens. For the CDA, as for the Secretary of State, it is important that the new tax units should as much as possible be in line with the system of the current tax unit. I am looking at a few points which seem to have deviated from the current fiscal unit. An ordinary tax unit can create a subsidiary without breaking the tax unit. A sister tax unit can't do that. When the sister company is disbanded with the mother, the tax unit breaks down. I'd like the Secretary of State to explain why. The second point concerns the STAK. Currently, a STAK may be part of a fiscal unit under conditions. A STAK is a foundation that is widely used among other things in family businesses. Parents want to give all children the economic property, but only one child or a part of the children.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The STAK, where the successors are located, then takes the legal ownership of the shares, and the depository receipt holders then own the economic property. The Supreme Court approved the application of the tax unit to a STAK subject to conditions. The Secretary of State uses this bill to undo it years later. Why should a STAK not be part of the fiscal unit? What is the consequence of family businesses using the STAK for very legitimate reasons? The Secretary of State always refers to Dutch tax law, transparent entities and the tax unit. But if we believe that in such a case there should be no fiscal unit, then that should be in the law, without prejudice to Dutch family businesses. By the way, it is still unclear to me what the result is of a tax unit with an entity that is transparent under Dutch tax law. Can the Secretary of State explain that? I think it is a very important point and consider tabling an amendment. The content of that amendment is that a STAK may continue to be part of the fiscal unit under the current conditions. My third point concerns the fact that a normal fiscal unit consists of assets and liabilities of the parent, eliminates the interest of the holding and reduces own funds accordingly. In a Papillon fiscal unit (a mother abroad, a daughter and a granddaughter), the assets and liabilities are compiled but there is no elimination of the interest of the holding. Can the Secretary of State state whether this observation is correct? If so, why was it not chosen not to eliminate the importance of the participation, i.e. the interest in the foreign subsidiary, in so far as this interest is seen by the granddaughter? I come to a number of points that have also been raised by colleagues. The Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court decided in April of this year that a sister tax unit should also be possible with an Israeli parent company. Israel, as we know, is neither a member of the EU nor an EEE. In doing so, this decision goes beyond the legislative proposal. Why didn't the Secretary of State take this statement into account in the bill? It is in line with what Mr Groot said: if we have agreements with third countries in this case, Israel, then this equal treatment bill can also have effects on those agreements. Can the Secretary of State explain in detail where that border is and whether we will shortly be presented with a legislative proposal in which this will be repaired? I'm on the Groupe Steria case. Mr Van Vliet and Mr Groot already referred to it. The Court of Justice has ruled that it is necessary to assess, for each benefit, whether the advantage can be retained by the tax unit. After all, the State Secretary has indicated that this bill represents the current state of the case law and that it is still waiting to see how the view of the Court of Justice should be interpreted in the context of the Dutch fiscal unitary regime. In the meantime, the Hoge Raad has referred questions on the per-element approach to currency losses and Article 10a of the Corporate Tax Act. It is becoming very complicated, Mr President, but as Mr Groot said, a more complicated law than the 1969 Corporate Tax Act is hardly to be found in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u31	We'll write along quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u32	I won't question you. The per-element approach seems to go quite far when you look at such a balanced system as the current fiscal unit regime. At the same time, however, there should be no discrimination by adding a certain new tax advantage to the tax unit regime and thus retaining it for Dutch companies. Until the Court of Justice has answered these and the following questions, it is of course a bit of a coffee shop, but because the tax unit is so important for the Netherlands, Dutch companies and the Dutch climate of establishment, I would like to look forward. We already know that loss relief does not create European legal problems. Can the Secretary of State indicate which elements can be identified within the per-element approach in the fiscal unit regime? In short, I see as elements of the mutual loss relief: currency losses, holding losses, checking the participation exemption, mutual transactions and limiting the impact of interest relief restrictions. Does the Secretary of State see any other elements besides these elements? Which of the elements, according to the State Secretary, should be adapted or perhaps disappear if the Court considers the per-element approach to the Dutch tax unit regime to be applicable? If the Court decides against the Tax Administration in these two cases, will the Secretary of State change the regime or will he wait until all possible elements are clear? I agree with two questions raised by colleagues. To my surprise, the first question was asked only by Mr De Vries of the VVD. Why was coverage required from the AWf premium, the contribution to the General Unemployment Fund? In the view of the CDA Group, social contributions are intended for social benefits. In the long term, the money comes from the BEPS project if it is well. That's the domain where this belongs, where the logical cover lies. How often has the cabinet used the AWf premium as a way to cover other losses? It is rather harsh that you bring back the conditions for unemployment insurance in the coalition agreement. You shorten the duration of the WW and use the premium for the WW to cover all kinds of gaps elsewhere, because it is an open accounting and the premium is no longer intended as a premium. This is not only a fundamental discussion, in which the CDA believes that WW grant is intended for WW benefits. If you do this often enough, it also leads to other discussions, such as the discussionzzp versus employee. You're burdening employees more heavily because you're levying an extra kind of tax. You turn the AWf premium into a tax that you can increase at will to raise additional resources. We'd like to get that overview. I also agree with Mr Merkies' question as to whether the holes he indicated apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u33	I'll see if the Secretary of State is willing and able to answer. He's gonna try. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u34	Mr. Chairman. And that on the first day: the tax unit. A lot of questions have been asked at the political level. I'll just answer it. I should also like to say a few words about the background, because there are quite different views about this in this Chamber. Questions of a technical nature have also been asked. 200 technical questions have now been asked on this subject, and there can really be ten more questions. However, I think it is a little unwise to shake that up now. What we share here is also part of the history of law. At the Vpb you easily forget something and then we really make accidents. I admit that the most technical questions are Mr Van Vliet's champion, but good second questions have also been answered in writing. I will do so as soon as possible, so that the answers are known in a proper manner. If you shake it out of the sleeve now, there will be accidents at some point, because it is very complex. Sometimes you think you know the answer, but you don't know it at the Vpb. Tax unity is very important for business and especially for SMEs, but that is not why we are doing this. We are not introducing a tax advantage for SMEs. If we wanted to, we could just lower the Vpb and then it was done. There's a logic behind this that I think is very strong. The tax unit makes it possible to organise a group of companies in different different companies without penalising that group. You have to see it this way in my perspective. The default is that all these companies, all of which belong in one hand and ultimately form one group, are in one company and are treated as a single taxpayer. If the tax unit did not exist, many of these things would be in one company and treated by default as a single taxpayer. There was then no internal loss relief, several declarations did not exist and transactions between those parts did not exist, because it is one group. If we abolish fiscal unity, there will undoubtedly be a great deal going on in one company. However, this presents enormous disadvantages. Tax unity is a way of ensuring that economic reality is followed and that it is possible to create a tax reality that is beneficial underneath. On the basis of different companies, the advantages are economic, but on the basis of that one group, the advantages are mainly legal, namely that it is possible to organize things in different companies within that one group. That could be commercially useful. It can be useful to restructure things or to be able to sell business parts faster. It could be a question of liability. It is mainly a question of providing legal advantages in maintaining the economic benefits that are the default. That's why I don't think this is a construction either. I think Mr Van Vliet was talking about tax planning. Mr Merkies used the word "construction" and Mr Groot is concerned about economic or fiscal opportunism. In that sense, I really don't think this is opportunism. It's in one hand. There is a reason for this and there is no opportunistic approach. The fiscal unit is merely a way of following that economic logic. I say to several questioners: it is true that the Netherlands is the only country that offers this. However, the advantages of this, for example, compared to the English system, are not primarily fiscal in nature. After all, this loss relief is actually the big chunk, the tax piece. It mainly offers a full consolidation, so you really only have to report it once. You don't have to bring mutual transactions. If we dropped that, we would suddenly have 200,000 companies in the Netherlands without any activity in our country. Yes, perhaps there would be more activity at administrative offices, but that is not the kind of employment we are focusing on. This way of monitoring economic reality while at the same time making appropriate legal under-organisation is, in fact, particularly important for SMEs. So we're not talking about big companies or we're barely talking about big companies. 97.5% of the number of SMEs, I stress: of the number of SMEs. There is another party that benefits from this, namely the Tax Administration. This organisation, too, would suddenly acquire 200,000 customers in the event of the abolition, and also in the case of another English form, without any substantial change in the amount of activity in the Netherlands. That's not an advantage, because the IRS has a lot to do. The control requires attention, and also construction control in all kinds of ways requires attention. People must be properly heard on the phone and everyone must be treated without error. These are all major challenges for the Tax Administration. So let us not create additional tasks elsewhere. The question of what was under pressure and what was added has already been addressed in detail by the various speakers and in the written rounds. I'm not going into that any further. I will try to get through the questions I do not have to answer in writing. We need to see where we're going. The series of questions actually begins and ends with the future; that is nice. I don't know if the questions ended up like this by chance, but it actually started with the question about Groupe Steria. What's the next move? We haven't thought about that yet. Mr Van Vliet is asking for it and Mr Omtzigt is also asking for it. I say honestly: this has not yet been thought out. Every time we grab the subject at the office, it turns out to be wider, more complex and more versatile. We really have to make an effort to limit it to the Vpb legislation. It is so complex that it does not lend itself very much to going about it here. Even if we let the specialists of the office talk about this, there are all kinds of interesting thoughts being put forward, but these are five different ones. In all honesty, we're not ready yet. Even the Supreme Court hasn't figured that out yet. That is a direct answer to Mr Van Vliet's question as to why the financial effects have not been considered so far. Well, that depends on what the result is. What is the order of magnitude of the consequences that may possibly result from this, it is not even certain? Mr Omtzigt talks about watching coffee. Unfortunately, that's just a little bit. I do not want to go into this per-element approach at the moment. I want to do that more well-founded at some point when that is the case. I have already promised in several documents to keep the Chamber informed. Because what happens to our Vpb legislation is of the utmost importance. Mr Van Vliet's second and third points I would like to take his numbering on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. His fourth point concerns my predecessor's commitment to respect for the existing situations at the time. I believe the fracture area was at the end of 2011. This issue is directly linked to the legislation under Article 15ad, which has been in consultation; several issues have been discussed. This is now being prepared as part of the 2017 Tax Plan. Since that is what is happening, I would like to refer to that. By that time, I think I will have ample time to hear Mr Van Vliet's reaction. I would then like to hear from him whether he believes that my predecessor's statements have been sufficiently respected. So that is still to be discussed, albeit at a different time. According to parliamentary tradition, we do so once the bill has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u35	However, Mr Van Vliet has a further question on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u36	I will participate fully in the treatment of the 2017 Tax Plan. I'm gonna be quick and say, "Let's move that over for a while." I've prepared a motion for that, but I'm not filing it now. The Secretary of State has just said that he will respond in writing to my second and third points. Too bad, but I can imagine. My first point was about Article 15ac (5). Will this also be dealt with in writing? I had four technical points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u37	Four technical points? Did I lose your number? The question on Rule 15ac (5) was addressed in writing. I think you saw that question in conjunction with another question on paragraph 8. I see your point now. I am referring to the questions relating to Article 15ac, paragraphs 5 and 8 and to Article 13. Those questions will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u38	That's what I'm waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u39	They were tricky, and that's how I know Mr. Van Vliet. So he doesn't disappoint me. But I'm not trying to disappoint him either. I'll have to write it in writing. Mr Van Vliet asked a question about the impact on VAT; I will answer that question in writing. Mr Merkies asked what the tax unit actually costs. My answer was: the single group idea is the default. We treat these companies in the tax unit as they would be treated if they were actually entering one company, which would not be opposed from an economic point of view. We're approaching economic reality. Compared to that reality, it costs nothing. In fact, that is also the goal, because if it costs something, we would favour them. We want to ensure that there is no economic difference between these two economic realities that are the same. One is underorganised in legal entities and the other is not. Basically, it shouldn't cost anything. If you extend that to entities that haven't been in that logic so far, like we're being forced to do here, it's gonna cost something. Mr Merkies asked if he had been properly informed. Well, that happened at the time of the bill, but not at the time of the policy decision, when the loss had to be calculated. The policy decision appeared a few days after the judgment. I can confirm that, until recently, I have had my own discussion about what this should actually cost. The rams finally won it over me again. That's the way it's supposed to be. Once there's a bill and we know what the consequence is, you can make such an estimate, but now it just had to be corrected. I had to because I had to. Some things have to be done no matter what it costs, because otherwise you have a big problem. In the context of the Tax Plan, we are going to talk about the coverage of that amount. I think Mr Merkies mentioned an occasional amount, but it is structuralally 41 million. This finds its cover in the Tax Plan. Mr Merkies also asked why we are not doing it through the group relief scheme. That is unattractive for the following reason. This scheme offers a large part of the tax advantages offered here while maintaining the concept of a group, most of which is in the loss relief. The cost of this in the tax sense is the same. I have just explained that these are zero, but I think Mr Merkies is following me anyway. On the other hand, we are dealing with the administrative burden. They are separate entities, they have to be reported separately and there are a lot of transactions in them. So you don't have all the advantages, but you do get the price tag presented. So I don't feel like it. Maybe someday we'll be forced to, but I'm trying to push that as far as I can, because I'm very fond of the fiscal unit. Is sufficient supervision possible? I've asked someone involved in surveillance to say something about supervision. The assessment of this tax unit is known here as the highly qualified work. The same applies to the supervision of the new forms of fiscal unit. If possible, they're even more complicated. Since the judgment it has been 230, all of which have been assessed individually and largely manually. There are specialists who have to ask themselves a lot about whether this is real or focused on things that the legislator did not mean. Frankly, I find an evaluation moment a heavy instrument. In its controlling role, the Chamber has the right to ask questions about everything at all times. Even if I am being asked to include in a report how this is thought of, I am all right with that, but a formal evaluation is done of something that you might as well abolish. We're being forced to do this. This is a mandatory repair. It is amazing that such an evaluation is not underestimated; there are several employees working on it for months to set up an evaluation for a mandatory number. I think Mr Merkies' concern is about abuse and double-checking. However, this is not even the case every three years, but every day. Every day that someone wants something like that from us must be looked at in this way. That is the daily task of the Tax Administration. Combating abuse is not something we do once every three years by means of an evaluation, but something that tax officials consider and should regard as a permanent part of their task. It's part of their job. That is why I do not think that an evaluation is the right instrument for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u40	I'll be on the evaluation in a minute. I was wondering how much it costs. The Secretary of State's acting a bit like you could only go one way in these lawsuit cases, but of course you could've done more than one thing. In addition, you could have looked at the different countries. The Netherlands is the only Member State that offers full consolidation. This can all have advantages, but other countries apparently do not. How much does that save in tax revenue? That's what I'm curious about. We got the figures for Britain. It was mentioned that the group relief scheme gives £93 billion a deduction on a gross profit of 393 billion. That's a fair amount of money. Then I expect that this may also have such an impact in the Netherlands and perhaps another impact in other countries. If you have no idea, you also don't know what costs are involved in the choice you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u41	My argument is that it costs nothing as the default is one company. It is at most true that you do not want to punish parties who want to organise things in different legal companies for legal reasons. You don't want to, because then you're not doing it efficiently. Then you choose an economic reality that does not fit in with the legal reality. We don't want that in the Netherlands. But my point is that it doesn't really cost anything on a philosophical level. It is true that the arrangements in England in these sums are also in ours. Those are even the biggest chunks, because I don't see so many other things associated with finance that are just as big. I think it could be a similar order of magnitude, but my thesis is that you shouldn't look at it that way. It's not construction. It's not an avoidance structure either. It's not a tax relief construction. It is a way not to punish people for choosing a sensible legal structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u42	Finally, Mr Merkies has a philosophical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u43	Mr Van Raak would have liked that as a philosopher. No, it's going to be a pretty concrete question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u44	That's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u45	That's disappointing again! My question just slipped my mind. The Secretary of State put me on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u46	We'll give Mr. Merkies some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u47	I've lost my question. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u48	He'll come back, like my grandmother used to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u49	If I come up with it like this, can I ask him?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u50	Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u51	I'm gonna hold it in the inside pocket, Mr. Merkies. I shouldn't have robbed you with a philosophical consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u52	That's the trekking right! Mr Merkies has received a democratic voucher. I come to the questions that deal with the concerns of De Vries and Van Eijk. Those concerns aren't in my head for a moment. I shall deal with these questions in writing. Here too, we need to do a bit nicely because we need to look at the legal history. I am mainly trying to protect the bill and not so much get myself put on paper by some things as neatly as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u53	Mr Merkies wants to use his democratic voucher.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u54	I remember what I wanted to ask. I am not saying that it is all about constructions and that it is all about tax avoidance, because it is partly about the mutual loss relief. That could be intended use. There's nothing wrong with that, but it's nice to know how much it's about. Then, of course, there is the unintended use. The possibility is created especially when it often goes beyond borders. Of course, it is also interesting to have an insight into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u55	The latter is, of course, the tax gap question. When we know that, we usually know how to close it. The things you don't know, you don't know. I am confident that I will get to some of these points later, because cross-border risks will also be dealt with, for example, in the STAK question by Mrs De Vries and Mr Omtzigt. Maybe we'll get to that by way of a detour. Mrs De Vries said that the 95% requirement for possession was not yet in the law. I think she's talking about the STAK arrest, because the 95% requirement was in the law. It has always been in the law, but I think it means that the repair of the STAK judgment, let me put it this way, has been added. To put it bluntly, that's not about the mainstream cases. In fact, out of the hundreds of thousands of cases, there are at most a few dozen cases. It is a very special exception following a very special judgment. It was never, not only from me, but apparently also from my predecessors, intended to see that as a judgment that had to be repaired if necessary. I can actually live very well with the fact that someone somehow put a foundation in there. That foundation is somewhere in the middle of the chain. That's a very illogical place. How it ended up there requires study, but it can happen. That foundation's over there. That's not so bad. Then it's a tax unit. The point is that it is new information that that judgment made it clear that this cannot be maintained. This has been demonstrated by this recent judgment, not by the STAK judgment at the time, but by the Papillon ruling. That's what got it. If you do not repair the STAK judgment, it will have effects on the scope of the concepts introduced here, such as the top or intermediate society. Suddenly we come across top or intermediate companies that we never meant for when drafting this bill at all. There are situations where Dutch insights are transparent or hybrid entities, but there may be all kinds of animals in them. This type of entity may arise from a variety of countries. There may be situations where legal and economic property is not in one hand. This inevitably leads to construction possibilities. The tax authorities will have to understand all kinds of foreign constructions. For example, there may be Greek entities, Bulgarian foundations and Bulgarian foundations under Romanian law. You can't make it up, but all that can happen. The Tax Administration can't reasonably judge that at all. That is a completely unfeasible task. The Tax Administration must learn not only all foreign languages, but also foreign law. That is not a passable road and simply not feasible. We will then face things that are not only impossible, but also very sensitive to construction. We shouldn't bring that in here. That's not the point, and it's not worth it. You're gonna have to go to the IRS and clean up an entire floor for these jokes. It's a few dozen cases. Those dozens of cases are affected by this? In general, I cannot imagine that much, because the tax unit can be restored by removing the foundation. A logical place of such a foundation, a kind of holding foundation, is at the top of the chain. This one's in the middle, which is an illogical place. What do you have to do? Well, you have to go to the notary to get that foundation out of there. That is the easiest way to restore the fiscal unit. I will probably be wrong in some of those dozens of cases, and I may be wrong to someone for that beforehand, but thinking in the office about the impact of this, we saw above all a passage to the notary for us. The STAK, which was in the tax unit, did not itself offer any tax advantage. Nor does it create a tax disadvantage by removing it. All in all, I seriously think that we should not take as a starting point a relatively small and clear matter, which left me indifferent to the time of the Papillon judgment, by suddenly having to take on a lot more officials, introduce a lot more administrative burdens and risk a lot more abuse. I think we really, really shouldn't pay for that. I have heard Mrs De Vries' comments on coverage. She'll rehearse it on her way home. I think that Mr Groot's first question, namely how I look at it, has been answered. I honestly don't see it as a bitch from the porridge. The whole porridge is yours, as are the currants. It really doesn't matter if you eat the currants or the porridge first. In that sense, I don't see this as a construction that you use opportunistically. This is the natural course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u56	I can very well follow the reasoning that the tax unit as a whole does not pay more than it should, because it is an economic unit, and that is default. However, the story becomes different if you allow complete freedom of choice and if you leave opportunities to shop, so that a eg where tax debts threaten, can be pushed out of the tax unit for a while. Then it will be a net loss for the treasury. So if all companies were obliged to be in a tax unit, you would be taxed as if there were one group according to the economic reality. If you allow that freedom of choice to exist, however, you leave room to shop and choose the best regime. Then there may indeed be a disadvantage for the treasury. Shouldn't you question the non-binding nature of opting for a tax unit, for example by limiting the possibility of separating something from your group? Does the Secretary of State want to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u57	That's been considered. There's no such thing as shopping. I suggest that in the letter I would like to send to the Chamber, I should like to lay down four more rules on this matter. But the answer is that I now understand the concern and that that care is addressed. In order not to rewrite the legal history, I will put it how and why with a little more context in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u58	Yesterday's work visit showed that shopping is indeed taking place when it comes to choosing whether or not to set up a tax unit. That disadvantage may call you off by inviting us to a work visit, but we do want to stay alert on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u59	I say to Mr Groot that I will continue to invite him to work visits and that I will involve the employee with whom he spoke at the time in writing this answer. Something under the table is not one of the parliamentary traditions. I thank Mr Groot for his question and I made him this promise. Mr Groot also asked whether this was an incentive to do so not only within the EU but also outside. That certainly doesn't apply to me. I have made it clear that I am very fond of fiscal unity and that I do not like this enlargement very much. This is very complex. I am not supposed to criticize court rulings and I will refrain from doing so, but I will certainly not argue for this hobby to be practiced outside the EU. I have three reasons for that. Firstly, this would make the implementation infinitely more complex. Secondly, there is no legal obligation for us to do so, because this is not mandatory and it does not follow from the judgment. Thirdly, this would result in budgetary losses. However, the procedure is under way at the Supreme Court and something is going to come out of it. That's what we're gonna see. I have promised that we will return to the Chamber as soon as we know. I would like to add Mr Omtzigt's first question to the written round. I see him nodding; I think that's how he assessed this. He then asked the Papillon question: if he sees it correctly, that is to say, that those assets are added up in domestic situations and that the holding, the mother's representation of the daughter underneath, is removed. Then the value will be different, too. If the assets were of more value than the value of the holding........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If you've paid a lot of goodwill, then the whole thing decreases in value. So anything can happen with that value. But, indeed, you take one thing out and you replace it with those assets. That will then be the balance sheet of the fiscal unit. That power jump has nothing to do with profit. It won't be taxed, either. It's not gonna do anything. It's an administrative power jump. In foreign situations, we don't do that. Mr Omtzigt asked: Is that true? Yeah, that's right. Then you can ask: is it normal that we do that differently? Well, we could have done it the same way. Not a bad word about that. Then it would have been the same thing as Mr Omtzigt's, but then we would have had to have a lot of data from abroad in order to eliminate that, to know exactly which part of the foreign participation has value in the granddaughter underneath. That power gap would have changed, but it would not be taxed, so it has no function for that. Furthermore, participation abroad is covered by the participation exemption anyway, so why should we really be concerned about that? So a practical solution has been chosen and Mr Omtzigt is quite right in saying that this is another method. However, following the original method has disadvantages but no advantage. But it's very sharp. I had to look at it twice when I read his question. I haven't answered the AWf question yet. Mr Omtzigt called it "cru" from the AWf premium. Well, it was at least "unlegant." In fact, I agree with his whole argument. But I say: this has been a temporary thing, because we didn't have any other cover available for a while and we wanted to keep the frames up, but it's being ploughed back. You can say it's borrowed, it's not taken out. That wouldn't be neat, either. The "backshift" is about the years 2018 and 2019 and the cover proposal is part of the Tax Plan. So this is simply put back nicely, because it is "unlegant" or, in Mr Omtzigt's words, "cru." But I think we're in agreement. That has to be done properly. Mr Omtzigt will see that in the Tax Plan. I think I'm done with my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u60	The Secretary of State has indicated that he will answer a number of questions in writing. I ask Members whether they already need a second term. That's the case. Then I will give the floor... no, first Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u61	As far as I am concerned, there is no need for a second deadline, but I had asked the Secretary of State about the transitional arrangements, which are set at two years, when it comes to... The Secretary of State already indicates that he is still on that point. He's so obvious!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u62	In fact, I am in favour of the implicit proposal that the second deadline, which may be rather short, should be scheduled after the written round, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u63	How do the other Members feel about that? Mr. Groot nods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u64	No, because I would like to say a few words about a possible amendment. I would find it useful to do a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u65	My proposal was to do a second term, just not now. That was correct in order to be able to table amendments. Suppose we now do a second term while Mr Merkies wants to submit something. It would be more useful to have the written answers first and then to respond to a possible amendment. Otherwise, you'll end up in a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u66	Yes, I understand. However, whether or not my amendment is tabled also depends on the response of the Secretary of State. He was just getting started on the evaluation. That is what my amendment is about. I wanted to say a few things about that. Now I miss that information. So I simply have to table the amendment. It would be a shame if we were not able to have the debate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u67	First of all, I would like to ask Mrs De Vries' opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u68	If there is still a need for a second term, we will do it now as far as I am concerned. If there are any amendments, the Secretary of State may give his opinion in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u69	Then there is a majority saying that we wait for the written response of the Secretary of State to the other questions and then continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u70	There's one question I want to make an exception for. I simply did not answer one question from Mrs De Vries from the first term. Maybe it's nice to do that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u71	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u72	There was also one question from me and Mr Van Vliet. It related to the double-accounting account. Is the answer to this also coming in the written round, or is the Secretary of State going to give it here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u73	Mr President, you said that the majority is in favour. So Van Vliet doesn't have to say anything anymore. I think that's a bit harsh, just to use that word! It is precisely because it is a fairly technical whole that I am very curious about the answers of the Secretary of State. That also means that I can agree to a second deadline at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u74	Thank you very much, and my sincere apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u75	I propose that, now that this round and this letter have been given this weight, the question of Mr Merkies' double loss allowance should be taken into account, but I would like to answer Mrs De Vries' really clear question. She asked why there is actually a two-year transitional arrangement. The thought behind this was next. We are dealing with a very limited number of cases, each of which is very limited, but that is an assessment. We have written down for two years; maybe we could have written down for three years. Let me put it this way: if it turns out that there is broad agreement that two years is not the right number, then I can write down another number. But I must be strict on the point that it must come to an end in a very foreseeable time, otherwise the risks will come back. So if the time limit is very clear and there is broad democratic support for making it a different number, my ears are wide open and I would like to hear it from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-06-tweedekamer-12.u76	I shall suspend the debate pending written reply by the Secretary of State. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members and everyone who has followed the debate. I wish you all a good and safe way home.
