ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the amendment of the Long-Term Care Act, the Social Support Act 2015, the Youth Act and the Health Insurance Act. They're all minor adjustments, although they may not be as small as they seem. Last year and the year before, with steam and boiling water, several legislative proposals were pushed through this Chamber. Everything had to change by 2015. Therefore, care was left to be desired. That's what we're seeing today. It's a repair law. We would have liked to have seen the care the Secretary of State speaks of today, for example when it comes to further figuring out the removals. That could have saved us a lot of trouble. Care has become a maze for many. Where am I supposed to go? Where am I supposed to be? The question is whether we are discussing carefully legislation today, which at least makes it clearer. It is a wood-rope repair that is sometimes necessary, but it is absolutely clear that the clarity about where you should end up in care is not increased today. In fact, a number of exceptions are proposed and created which, as far as the SP Group is concerned, may be logical in nature, but not in scale. I'll get back to you on that. What happened to the CIZ indication rules? Last week, the Secretary of State promised to talk to Sander Hilberink. He needs heavy care, but still doesn't get access to the Long-Term Care Act. The Chamber doesn't think that's possible. We have tabled a motion on this matter. The Secretary of State has agreed to talk so that we have held the motion. It would have ordained the Secretary of State if he had sent the indicative guidelines to the Chamber. Because today, again in Zorgvision, it says that access to the Wlz is a major problem. I'm a little done asking for clarity every time. Can the Secretary of State simply send the indicative guidelines to the Chamber by hand? Because when we talk here today about arranging bridging care, of course that sounds very good and then our intentions are clear. But if it turns out you're not entitled to that, because the CIZ has or uses far too strict indicative rules, then we're talking a little bit past each other. I miss in the bill the transition from the ggz to the Wlz. Why isn't it in there? That has to be repaired, too. Is there gonna be any more repair legislation? If so, what is the Secretary of State thinking? In rehabilitation care we see that it is very difficult to get someone who has to rehab at once in the right place. Someone often needs to be watched for a while. In addition to physical problems, is there anything cognitive going on? It's getting harder to do that. You don't end up in rehabilitation clinics well, staying in the hospital isn't really the best place. Is this bill exactly a solution to this problem? If you come to a rehab facility in a nursing home, a patient should be gone within three weeks. Then the funding will stop. Is this bill gonna solve that? There are now patients who have to sign before they rehab that they will be gone within three weeks; if they don't sign up, they won't be admitted. What are we talking about? Good bridging care is essential. That is caring for people who need care, but waiting for a place in a nursing home, for example, and should be able to stay at home at that time. Someone can't go straight to the place he would like and then that time must be covered with care at home or elsewhere. That's what this bill is about, among other things. At a time like this, you don't want to have the discussion under which law someone falls, because that care has to be provided. The Long-Term Care Act is a very logical one, especially if there is already an indication of care. But the transition period is very fragile. We would be very pleased if there were one party or one designated to take the lead and ensure that care is provided and that there is no twitching during that bridging period. How exactly is that going? People who have an indication of the Long-Term Care Act and have to live in an institution and will receive their care there often have different care through another law or another provider. People have to stay home longer. The Secretary of State states that the proposed amendment does not explicitly address the situation in which the municipality and the health insurance company are already prepared to continue and perhaps even weigh up the current form of care. Then someone has a Wlz-indication, but that cannot go into immediately, because at that time there are also Wmo-care and community care. Let me get this straight. I'm not in favour of stringing. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State exactly what that is about. Does the five-day payment period apply from the care that someone already has before passing to the Long-Term Care Act, a term that is agreed between the parties really as the limit? What happens if the municipality and the health insurance company are not prepared to pay for those five days? I'm confused about that. Furthermore, the bridge care is now regulated for a period of thirteen weeks. I have seen an amendment by the CDA stating that this period should also be extended by 13 weeks. I think that's wise. We want someone to get to the most appropriate place as soon as possible. In addition, self-direction is also important. If someone wanted to wait perhaps 14 or 15 weeks and would like to overcome that, that would be a new problem if we passed this law, which talks about thirteen weeks. That is why I asked in my introduction whether we are solving something or creating a new problem. We will support Mrs Keijzer's amendment. The Secretary of State is going to lay down a number of requirements and conditions per ministerial arrangement. One requirement is that a Wlz application will not apply to bridging care and that care in the home situation should be effective. I'm getting a little confused about that, too. What exactly does the Secretary of State mean by that? Is the Secretary of State thinking of other conditions? Care in the home situation must be effective. Does that mean that care shouldn't be more expensive than in a nursing home? If care at home would be more expensive than care in a nursing home, and someone wants to stay at home, would someone be forced to go to a nursing home? Don't you think we're doing the wrong thing? If anyone chooses to stay home, shouldn't they? We are concerned about the continuity of this legislation. The intention is good. There has to be a bridging arrangement, but aren't we making it much more complicated? Can the Secretary of State guarantee us that this is a solution rather than a new problem? The bill lays down that care offices must comply with their duty of care within "reasonable time" and "reasonable distance." I'm getting a little freaked out about that. We have also asked for this in the written preparation of this bill. What exactly does a "reasonable term" and a "reasonable distance" mean? Will different healthcare agencies deal with that differently? Can you, as health insurance companies do with their budget policy for example, suddenly have to travel 130 kilometres for care? Is that another "reasonable distance"? Can the Secretary of State say that there can be a standard? Can he promise to give more direction to this? If not, we shall table a motion on this matter. In this context, I also have a question about the purchase of small-scale care. We are getting signals that small-scale residential facilities that are not pgb-financed, but simply standalone through care in kind................................................................................................................................................................................... The health insurance companies and health care agencies say: merge, because that is easier for us in the contracting. That's not supposed to happen, is it? If you take a standard for the "reasonable term" and the "reasonable distance," do you not get the urge to do so? If care is not contracted nearby and the health insurance company thinks that you should go to a next village or city, while there is also care nearby, shouldn't it be the other way around? Shouldn't care agencies just take the nearest option? Wouldn't that be much better to actually improve the position of small-scale healthcare institutions? Which brings me to another part of this bill. The admission requirements for the Care Institution Admission Act expire for pgb-funded accommodation centres. The Health Institution Admission Act lays down organizational requirements: you must have a supervisory board, a works council, a board of directors and all of them. The smaller you are and the more flexible you work, the harder it is to arrange it. So I think it's a good thing that we're looking at how we can change where the WTZi is struggling for small-scale care. However, an exception is now being made for accommodation centres, when you would say: do so for other small-scale care institutions that run against these borders. This is an exception for the pgb-funded accommodation centres. I don't think it makes sense for them to have an exception. This should apply to other health care institutions. Imagine that you want to go to a sleepover shelter and actually want to pay for it through care in kind, but that is precisely the one kind of shelter that does this small-scale, which only offers through personalized budget. There will then be a situation in which you are forced to apply for a personal budget. It'll be a personalized budget. In order to prevent this from becoming the measure for people, I would say that the admission requirements of the WTZi also fall for other small-scale forms, which have been financed through care in kind. Or turn it around: if you provide pgb-funded care, make sure that you deliver that care through care in kind, so that people can really choose how to access such a small-scale provision. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that? That seems logical to me. I'm gonna go into two other cases. The house adjustments are also described in this bill. What is the state of play with regard to home adjustments, aids and household care in the context of the transition from the Wmo to the Long-Term Care Act? This means that someone first falls under the Wmo and then goes to the Long-Term Care Act. The Secretary of State says that he does not want to take the risk that people who have tools and home adjustments should exchange them because they are in another regime. I'm glad to hear that, but how do we proceed with this? What bottlenecks have been identified? When is the Secretary of State thinking of a permanent regime? After all, we are still in a transitional regime. How do the financial consequences become clear, including for municipalities? I think it is good to clarify this in the very short term. Perhaps that can already be done in this debate. Finally, I would like to comment on the right of trekking for a personal budget. In the case of long-term care, we have arranged that the care agreements of budget holder and healthcare provider must have approval before the SVB can pay out. It's about all kinds of things. The SVB will then pay the tax; well, we all know the drawing right. This is now also going to apply to the pgbs in the Youth Act. Can the Secretary of State let me know if that's gonna work right now? Or are we creating a new problem? Is it wise to do this right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call Mr Van Weyenberg, who is replacing Mrs Bergkamp today. It's not a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. That is true, but I am glad that I have already released so much inspiration from Mrs Leijten. I am indeed replacing my colleague Vera Bergkamp. This also means that, unfortunately, due to other commitments, I cannot follow the whole debate. I ask you to understand that. Normally it is extremely rude not to be in the Chamber at the time of the answer; therefore, I would like to say this explicitly. I would like to explain the amendment tabled by Mrs Bergkamp and I would like to ask a few questions about youth aid. It is a good thing that the Wlz bridge care is provided, but I am asking the Secretary of State what the current situation is. How long has it been possible to deal with bridging care? Mrs Leijten has actually asked the same question. The present amendment states that after the start of the bridging care the care office must have settled in an institution after thirteen weeks of care within a reasonable distance from where the client wants to live. That raises a question for the D66 Group, because what is "reasonable" and who determines that? Is that determined by the care office, or is the client involved? The purpose of the Secretary of State is to put the client at the centre and to assume his wishes. It would therefore be reasonable for clients to have a say in this, for this also depends, of course, on the travelling time that is feasible for a family. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State wants the deadline laid down in this law to be 13 weeks, otherwise the duty of care of the care office will be weakened. Of course, that purpose of declaring that duty of care is beautiful. However, it is not intended to restrict the rights of a client. But couldn't that be an unintentional side effect? When the thirteen weeks are over, it must be ensured that the client goes to an institution, even if that is not the institution of his preference, while perhaps a place will be available there a week or two weeks later. That is why we have tabled an amendment: the duty of care of the care office remains unchanged, but it is possible to extend that period of thirteen weeks by mutual agreement. That period is no longer a hard limit. I saw that Mrs Keijzer also tabled an amendment. This is about the same problem, but it contains a slightly different solution. I am curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to both amendments. In my view, the starting point for both amendments is the same: is this thirteen-week period not too painful in practice and do we not miss the opportunity to give people a place in their preferred institution a little later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	You referred to the amendment to item No. 12. That amendment has now been amended. It is now the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. So I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State, precisely because of the patient's interest, that we want to remain at the heart of the law. I have two more points on youth aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	It's a little hard to get a question from a material expert if you need to replace someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	Still, you're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	That's why I'm trying to put it quietly. I do not expect an answer from Mr Van Weyenberg, although I think he is doing so reasonably well, that I actually expect an answer. There is a transitional period of 13 weeks, but people must go to an institution as soon as possible, preferably to an institution of their preference. It's really a transitional period. The CDA is tabling an amendment proposing to extend that time limit once, but that is an end to it. Mrs Bergkamp's amendment seems to create a situation in which it can go on indefinitely. This may be an incentive for the person concerned to think: I will only be in this temporary situation for a while, because it may be possible for that place in my preferred institution to be there. When does it end for the D66 Group? Isn't it better to set a deadline, if only to take away that incentive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	I think there are two differences between Mrs Keijzer's amendment and D66's amendment. A difference is that there is no limit of one additional period of thirteen weeks. That's right. But there is something else in it. With Mrs Keijzer's amendment, that 13 weeks is an extra hard right, while with the D66 amendment it must be in consultation with the healthcare office. There is already a limitation in this: one cannot ask for an infinite delay by not participating in a placement. It's looking for a balance. I understand Mr Potters' concern. I believe, however, that the risk of limiting it to 13 weeks is that the law would stand in the way of a solution that everyone is enthusiastic about in the fourteenth week. I'd like to avoid that. That is the reason why we have chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	I understand the D66 Group's wish. That makes sense. In fact, Mr Van Weyenberg says that after weeks of 14 or 15, the healthcare office can say: it is important now that this temporary situation is lifted and that you do indeed go to that and that institution, although that is not your preferred institution. In the end, that is what he says with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	It even explicitly states in the amendment that it is not a unilateral right. On this point, Mrs Keijzer's amendment goes further. It does, however, offer the opportunity to opt for a wider period by mutual agreement. I am therefore going to look very closely at Mrs Keijzer's amendment. We're still trying to figure out what the best solution is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	I think that's what we're all looking for. We want a bridging arrangement to prevent people from being pushed back and forth and that the situation is unclear, but we also do not want it to get tight. Still, I have one more question. I hope Mr Van Weyenberg can answer that. Does the D66 think that a healthcare office can force someone to live somewhere he doesn't want to live?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	According to the bill, in theory, it can be done after 13 weeks. We're saying that's too tight. That is why we propose to extend this period and then try to do something by mutual agreement. However, I have just asked what is happening, for example, with regard to travel time. You can quite reasonably set a limit to that. Then you can say: if that's the travel time, then you can't be placed there. So I do not think the answer to the question is entirely black and white. In any case, we are trying to increase the scope to find an optimal solution for the client as well, but also to maintain the incentive for the healthcare office to quickly come up with a good solution, so that there is no waiting and waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	I don't think it's handled that way in practice, you know. I think there's a lot of work being done to get people into a decent place that's also accepted by those people. The latter is of crucial importance. We should not get into the situation where the health offices say you have to live there, otherwise your indication or your bridging care will lapse. Is there not another problem with this bill, namely that it must be effective? In other words, home care should not be more expensive than in the nursing home. If we let that demand go, will we not give ourselves some more freedom in dealing with people who certainly need bridging care or heavy care but do not want to be forced to live somewhere they do not want to live? 'Cause I don't think we should go over that bridge. Let us not only extend the deadline, something that you as D66 and CDA will probably come out of, but also drop the requirement of efficiency. Then we'll have more room to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	But then, in theory, you can get some sort of limitless situation. As far as I am aware of the current practice, it is now also limited to about a year. That was a question I asked the Secretary of State. In my view, therefore, the fact that there is a limit is not new in this law in relation to the current practice of implementation. In any case, I always find efficiency something to pursue; I am sure Mrs Leijten will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'm gonna continue with the youth assistance. In applying for a minor's removal, a so-called grant decision through the College of Mayors and aldermen should be submitted to the children's court. Since decentralisation, the municipalities have been given responsibility for the whole youth system. This includes both funding and directing the provision of youth assistance. D66 would like to keep that division of roles very clear and clean. The Council of State was critical of the proposal to delete this grant decision in this legislative proposal. The cabinet has now decided not to do so, but to look at a broader context. That you look at a broader context, we understand, but we see that in practice municipalities sometimes take a very long time to take such a decision, which can really be a problem in the case of emergency permissions. That is why I would like the Secretary of State's undertaking that the Cabinet will also consider how to prevent unnecessary delays in this broad context approach. My group considers this to be a problem. I am also curious, of course, when the Chamber will be able to see the outcome of that exploration into the wider context. Within the Youth Act, it is also possible to lock minors into closed youth care, in certain cases without judicial intervention, through a so-called conditional authorisation. D66 sees risks in that. We find it undesirable, on principle, to allow restrictions of freedom to take place without the intervention of a judge. This also creates tensions with the European Convention on Human Rights. Does the Secretary of State share the concerns of the D66 Group? Why didn't we choose to add a repair to this law at this point? Is the Secretary of State prepared to take this subject with him in his exploration in the context of the removals? We are genuinely concerned about this. We have not tabled an amendment on it now because we would like to give the Secretary of State a chance to look at it again, but we are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. More than a year after the introduction of the Long-Term Care Act, we are standing here because the Secretary of State wants to give the impression that he provides bridging care for people waiting for a place in a nursing home, in a disabled institution or in a ggz institution. About 13,000 people have rejected an available place in a nursing home, disability institution or ggz institution. Why? Because they prefer to wait for a place in an institution of their preference. Warriors, the Secretary of State calls them. We call it freedom of choice. The waiting list for the nursing homes concerns 8.573 elderly people. The crucial question before us today is: are there 13,000 free places in nursing homes, disability institutions and ggz institutions? Are there 8,500 free places in nursing homes? We don't have that information. We're gonna have to do it again without it. Why is that question crucial? If you have 13,000 waiting and 13,000 free places, you can come a long way with some managing. But if there are only 4,000 places, or 1,000, or zero, how dare the Secretary of State send a law like this to the Chamber? How dare he send a law to the Chamber that regulates that elderly people, disabled people and people with disabilities do not receive bridge care, but that it ends after a period of 13 weeks? For the elderly, they lack their necessary care and care. The coalition parties will applaud this change again, but my group really does not think it can be done. High-age people, the people who built our country, they're just getting wiped out. They can't even wait for a place in the nursing home in their own village with brother or sister, who are also very old and can't visit fifteen villages further away. The Secretary of State should be ashamed that he sent this law to the Chamber. Staying in a nursing home is the last station for people. That's where they'll stay until they die. Can you please go to an institution where you feel comfortable, close to family and friends? This Secretary of State is not allowed to do so, because a person who, after a period of thirteen weeks, wants to wait for a place or no place in the institution of his preference does not receive bridge care. Is there a reasonable distance from here? What's reasonable? a suitable If this is not the case, the care office fulfils its duty of care with this undesirable place. Grandpa or grandma, father or mother can swallow or suffocate. Meeting the duty of care is apparently more important than the much preached meaningless mantras "bespoke care," "own direction" and "free choice." That freedom of choice has become freedom of choice for thirteen weeks. After that, it's too bad. For the people who are eligible, the bridging care is limited to thirteen weeks. That's a little over three months. Recent studies by Follow the Money show that the waiting period is on average four months higher than the standard of six weeks, i.e. five and a half months. So that is much longer than the thirteen weeks laid down in this law. It also appeared that some institutions have a waiting period of up to one to two years. What's the Secretary of State's reaction to this? How dare he set this standard if the practice has long and wide shown that the deadline laid down in this law is far exceeded? That brings me to the question of what happens after the thirteen-week transitional period. Will the reasonable distance be released? Can someone from Delft, for example, be referred to an institution in Gelderland, far away from family and friends? Will the responsible care card be drawn and an urgent withdrawal made? But what if there's just no places? Then who decides what responsible care is? Or will the indication simply lapse, so that in his or her final phase of life, a deadly elderly person is thrown back into the Wmo and Health Insurance Act? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The most offensive thing is that these are solutions to a problem caused by the cabinet itself. If you close the nursing homes and cut away the funding of 60,500 nursing homes from one day to the next, and thus also a part of the nursing homes or the places that could possibly have been converted to do so, then you can assume that there aren't enough free spaces, let alone those still come. Again, how many free spaces are there for the 8,500 seniors who are now on the waiting list? As long as this cabinet, together with the CDA, the Christian Union and GroenLinks, holds on to the no longer financing of the nursing homes, only places will disappear. We cannot repeat it often enough: the closure of care homes has not only destroyed the possibility of living in a protected residential environment, it has also been particularly damaging to the survival of institutions that also provided nursing care. In doing so, nursing homes have been killed and the Secretary of State is in trade-K with towering waiting lists. If he wants to get rid of it and not leave people to their fate, then there are places to go. How's the Secretary of State gonna take care of that? We do have the solution: the Secretary of State must start financing the nursing homes again. But we know this Secretary of State: as always he perseveres in his policy. He's holding onto it, even if he's on a dead end. Come on, get in the ravine. "Toodledokie, old folks! It was a pleasure to have your care aborted." Even though the whole world sees that it doesn't work and that it does more harm than good, he still insists that it all gets better. Finally. Of course, we are pleased that the bridging care is being arranged, but this should never have the effect of simply letting the vulnerable elderly in this country rot or tear away from their loved ones. It must never restrict people's freedom of choice, even if the deadline of thirteen weeks is exceeded. The deadline of thirteen weeks simply has to be out of the law, because ultimately the government is responsible for exceeding the period. If the government has no places and if the government has waiting lists, it will have to cancel the thirteen-week deadline. After all, it is the duty of the Secretary of State to provide enough places, with dignity and pride, even here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. Chairman. In the law we are discussing today, the cabinet proposes a number of changes to the various health care reforms. These changes concern different laws and different target groups. The CDA wishes to obtain more clarity from the Secretary of State on a number of points than the legislative proposal and the explanatory statement. The first concerns bridging care. It's been discussed extensively this morning. The CDA shares with the State Secretary the premise that the healthcare office, the Wlz executive, should do more than is currently the case to arrange good bridging care for people with an indication based on the Long-Term Care Act. What the health care office has to and can do in these thirteen weeks is not entirely clear to the CDA, let alone to the insured and his or her family; let us not forget it. After all, we are talking about people with such limitations that inclusion in an institution is actually required. A ministerial arrangement is going to clarify this, but we do not yet have it. Does the Secretary of State intend to clarify this today? Is this ministerial arrangement coming to the Chamber? The cabinet states in the note following the report that this law should be seen as a law that does not restrict the rights of clients, but sets a standard for healthcare offices. As indicated earlier, this is a very good starting point. However, this is a bit of a system response as the insured person and his or her family are in practice confronted with this and suffer the consequences. They wonder where the father, mother or child is to go and what the care looks like in the meantime. What happens if there is no solution after 13 weeks of bridging care? What can the insured person expect from the health care office? After 13 weeks, does anyone have to go to a residence outside the region? What are the coercive means of keeping care offices to these thirteen weeks in the sense that within this period a place will be found in their own region? In the bill this is called "at a reasonable distance." In this context, the CDA considers that the cabinet feels too easy to move to an institution other than that desired by the insured person. It is not only often sad, but it is also extremely impractical, especially in times when, rightly, more family is expected in terms of family care. As I said, that is right, but it is important that the institution where a family member is located should at least be somewhat accessible. How can it be ensured that rooms in nursing homes in their own environment are actually financially available? We often hear that rooms are empty, but they cannot be filled in because there are not enough places to buy. What can the Secretary of State do about it? What are the sanctions for health care agencies and health care institutions if no place has been found within the thirteen-week deadline? I think the Secretary of State is going to talk about keeping care offices on duty. That is the system we know, but if "reasonable distance" is not defined and described, where are you as an insured person when the health care office says that having a place in an institution 40 kilometres away fulfils the duty of care? Is that 10, 20, 30 kilometers? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what this will look like in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	We often see that people who want to go to a health care facility where there is room cannot go there because the health care office did not buy in there. This is one of the consequences of the expiry of the obligation to contract. Is Mrs Keijzer in favour of reintroducing this obligation of contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	That is a direct solution, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the financial consequences are. What does this mean for health care institutions in parts of the country where there is a vacancy due to insufficient insurance? It is certainly a solution, but we need to think about what this means for those care institutions. If you're gonna do this, do you have to think of some kind of phasing-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	If there is no demand for a place, it cannot be filled in. That's clear. Now, however, you see that care institutions are not allowed to do so, because there is no or too limited contract. We must do something about this and not allow the health offices to mess around in a reasonable time and a reasonable distance. Re-introducing the obligation of contract could be one of the solutions. I am also curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	Well, that makes two of us. In any case, a period of thirteen weeks is short day. That is why we have proposed an amendment to extend the transitional period. If the care provider cannot provide care within 13 weeks, an extension of 13 weeks may be made at the request of the insured person. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Does he wish to address the question of what sanctions can be imposed? I would also like to receive a response to the duty of care and the reasonable distance that is now included in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have just had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Weyenberg on the amendment proposed by the D66 Group on this point. There seems to be similarities with Mrs Keijzer's amendment, but also differences. The CDA clearly chooses to postpone for 13 weeks once. After these thirteen weeks there must be a mandatory delivery by the care office at the institution and the temporary arrangement can no longer be used. Does this 26-week period therefore constitute a hard deadline or does Mrs Keijzer and Mr D66 consider that it can be extended for a period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	The proposal includes the provision of 26 weeks. The CDA Group is well aware that this concerns people with such limitations that there really is a need to find a place in an institution because otherwise insufficient care can be provided. However, we are still looking, because the question is what the penalty is after that thirteen-week period in the bill or the twenty-six-week period in our proposal. I have asked a number of questions about this and I will not repeat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	I get that; 26 weeks is the final deadline. My question then is what should happen after 26 weeks. Should the person concerned then accept an institution provided by the healthcare office, even if that institution is not preferred, or can the temporary scheme still be used? Mrs Keijzer's amendment merely refers to a delay of 13 weeks, and after twenty-six weeks, someone has to go to the institution that is being delivered. In my view, that is the proposal as it is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	No, not quite. What is the duty of care of a care office? The care office should provide a place for example within a reasonable distance. So it cannot say to anyone: we have a place for you 100 kilometers away. I am therefore looking for the question of what the care obligation of the healthcare office entails so that it can find a place within reasonable distance. That is what I am looking for, and that is why I am curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to determine whether we are doing the right thing with each other today. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the bridge care. In the note following the report, the CDA reads: "Formally, care starts from the Wlz when a client has received an indicative decision on the basis of the Wlz. By mutual agreement, interested parties have agreed to fund the care and support from Wmo 2015, Zvw and Wlz for a maximum of five days from the domain from which the transition takes place in order to allow a proper transfer and to manage care from the receiving domain." From a financial point of view, this is an impure course of action. The CDA understands that in this way we reduce the cost of the Long-Term Care Act somewhat, but it is not purely and legally either. More importantly, it is becoming more and more complicated to determine the actual financial impact of the various forms of care. In doing so, municipalities and health insurance companies are facing huge cuts. As soon as there is an indication and people thus comply with the access requirements of the Long-Term Care Act, the care should also be financed from the domain of the Long-Term Care Act. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to this second CDA amendment. Another part of this bill is the Youth Act and the disclosure of medical data. Rather deep down in the bill, a change of law has been put in place that caused the CDA group to frown. It is also a bit of a search, because the article-by-article explanatory statement does not sufficiently explain the reason for this change. I am referring to Article 2 at the bottom. It proposes to amend Article 7.3.1, third paragraph, of the Youth Act. This would mean that the medical professional secrecy of paediatricians, juvenile doctors, general practitioners and paediatric psychiatrists would no longer apply to minors subject to supervision. Are we reading this right? Can this change make it compulsory for medical professional secrecy to be broken if a healthcare professional involved in a supervised child so requests? What's the reason for this? After all, it is already the case that a doctor may break medical professional secrecy when the safe growth of a minor is at stake. Is my analysis of this bill correct? And don't push this too far, especially since we know from the Children's Ombudsman's report that under surveillance and removals are not always carefully truth-finding. Then stop the grant for the orthocommunicative treatment of autism by Kentalis. These are children with double problems, so they are autistic and blind, deaf, hearing impaired or visually impaired. The CDA understands that the outpatient offer, the day-to-day treatment, for existing clients is currently being phased out by Kentalis. This now makes agreements with municipalities, organisations in the youth-ggz appropriate education in the Eindhoven region. What does this mean for new clients? Do they know where they're supposed to be? Are municipalities willing to purchase Kentalis' very specialised expertise? Are youth institutions buying this particular care? Let us be honest: the target group is small and the problem is highly specialised. When it comes to children with autism, I have to remember the previous President of the VNG, who thought membership of the football association for children with autism was a good idea. If I let that work on me and look what we're talking about now, it's unclear where it ends up, then I'm worried. There is also a problem with caring for children with these double problems living in an institution. It's only about 38 young people between the ages of 12 and 23. This existing client group still lives with Kentalis and is being treated there. It is therefore not easy to place. We do not want these children and young people to fall between the loopholes of the Youth Act and the Health Insurance Act. We believe that the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, I hear him say it very often and share this point of view with the CDA. We're talking about a specific limited target group. Does the Secretary of State wish to consult with the VNG to purchase this care, both in-patient and intra-mural, nationally, in accordance with the existing regional-cross-border specialist care scheme, which we sometimes refer to as the framework agreement? The CDA wants this expertise to remain secure in the long term and that fathers and mothers of these children quickly know where they can go and also receive the care that is so important for their children. Another part of this bill concerns the Social Insurance Bank and the labour law audit of health care contracts on the basis of which personal budgets are paid out. The Social Insurance Bank will have to check whether the employment contract submitted complies with labour law. If this is not the case, the Social Insurance Bank will ask the budget holder to amend the agreement. We all know what an administrative circus that whole pgb system is now, because also colleges of mayor and aldermen have to approve the contracts. The Council of State also pointed it out: this in turn increases the regulatory burden, the administrative burden. Does the Secretary of State see this and, if so, how does he feel about it? This bill's been there for a while. Therefore, the question of how this proposal relates to the improved plan on drawing rights in which this advisory task has been transferred to municipalities for a very large part, and the fact that we discussed this yesterday - that an investigation is taking place in order to remove the payout task in relation to the personal budgets from the Social Insurance Bank, also in connection with the motion I tabled to identify what is going to happen at the Social Insurance Bank and what is not. I would like to hear an extensive response from the Secretary of State. If there is a need for an amendment to get this out of this law, I am, of course, prepared to do so. Then the final point. The House of Representatives has agreed to the bill to increase investment opportunities in medical-specialist care (33168). This is now in the First Chamber. In this, profit payments to care institutions that provide care with accommodation are prohibited, and that is good, but this does not apply to the accommodation facilities. Is this analysis correct and, if so, what does the Secretary of State think about this? Is that conscious or is that a mistake? [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb op dit punt al een amendement liggen.]] So I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr. Chairman. With the changes in care we want to give people more control over their own care, give employees more space for their profession and what to do about the often suffocating care bureaucracy. And that's not gonna happen from today to tomorrow. That's hard work for all those people who deal with it every day. The PvdA sees beautiful things emerging. I am thinking of the energy currently being invested in improving the quality of life in nursing homes. I am also thinking of the citizens' initiatives in the area of care which are currently falling apart like mushrooms. I'm thinking of the municipalities that come up with unorthodox solutions to help people. However, there is also a need to adjust if things do not go as they were intended. Today, we're dealing with a bill like this. That fixes a number of things that need repairing. That seems very technical, but it still has great meaning for people. I would like to raise four issues. I start with the transitional right to a full package at home with a low care package. If you live at home and arrange your care with a full package at home based on the AWBZ, you should make a choice. If you want to be covered by the Long-Term Care Act, you have to move to an institution. If you want to continue to receive your care at home, you are suddenly covered by the Social Support Act and the Health Insurance Act. The PvdA feels it is undesirable to make that choice. In practice, this means that people have to move unnecessarily to an institution if they choose the Wlz. That's undesirable. These people would like to stay at home. It should therefore be possible to continue the whole package at home. These people are then covered by the Wlz, without having to opt for inpatient care. I have already tabled an amendment to extend the Wlz transitional right for people who are entitled to be admitted to an institution but do not yet want to cash it, and not to link it to an end date. Together with Mr Potters, I have tabled an amendment to make this possible for people who take care of a complete package at home. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA that people should not move unnecessarily? Can the Secretary of State indicate how he is looking at Mr Potters' and myself's amendment? The second issue concerns bridging care. If people are not yet able to go to a care institution or to the institution of their choice, care must be provided. That's the so-called "bridging care." The PvdA is pleased that this bridge care now gets a place in the Wlz. However, I still have a few questions for the Secretary of State. Often people get care before they move into an institution. This care is often provided by a health insurance company and the municipality. Where does the bridge care begin and end? How do we prevent people from being pinged back and forth? How does the Secretary of State ensure that people's interests are paramount? Moreover, if people prefer to keep their trusted care providers during the period of bridging care and do not want to take advantage of the offer contracted by the healthcare office, the PvdA believes that this should be possible. It is a period of thirteen weeks to be considered or possibly a little longer. Changing the weather of caregivers is not pleasant for people. I read that in such a case the health insurance company and the municipality can make arrangements with the health care office about the reimbursement of the bridge care. It is only in the amendment of the law itself that nothing is settled. Why didn't the Secretary of State choose to regulate this also legally, so that the continuity of care for people is always guaranteed? I have tabled an amendment on this subject, which has also been distributed this morning. It is about continuity of care for people in bridging care, only then paid through the health offices. I see that Mr Potters has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u30	I understand that Mr Van Dijk says that people want to be able to use their trusted aid provider in particular and that it can be a fixed value in a transitional phase in which there is already a great deal of change. In the proposed amendment, it seems that there is a shift from the fiscal burden from the Health Insurance Act and the Wmo to the Long-Term Care Act. After all, Mr Van Dijk is proposing to finance the costs of the transitional period and the aid workers from the Wlz, because people already have a Wlz indication. Does the PvdA really intend to make it a budgetary shift so that this care is previously financed by the Wlz, or is it purely and simply the fact that there is a familiar face and a trusted aid provider and does it not matter so much what law it is funded?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u31	It's about the latter. People are entitled to Wlz care, care that must be financed from the Wlz. However, the trusted aid workers who get people on the floor at home, such as the neighborhood nurse or domestic help, are not always contracted by the healthcare office. It seems to me very annoying to people that during that short period of time you suddenly get other people over the floor again. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that clients receive the same people during the transition period if they choose to do so. The bill for this is not paid by the municipalities and the health insurance companies, as we have done all this time, but by the Health Care Office. Otherwise, the Care Office should have financed it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u32	I understand the intention of this amendment. Suppose the update is that there must be a budgetary shift to the Wlz, which actually means that you pay more care from the Wlz than what would have to be taken out of the care obligations of the Health Insurance Act. Would that be a desired side effect? Or does Mr Van Dijk say that this cannot be the intention of the amendment and that the Secretary of State should take a very close look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u33	I can't imagine, because people aren't eligible for bridging care if they don't have an indication of admission to an institution. As soon as that indication is available, there is a payment obligation for the Care Office, which is borne by the Wlz. We do not so much regulate a change in funding or a shift in payment flows. The goal is to keep the same aid workers now. The payment obligation, which is already at the Zorgkantoor, is therefore fulfilled by the Zorgkantoor. Mr. Chairman. The third topic concerns the reimbursement of household help, aids and home adjustments for people who receive their care from the Wlz but still live at home and also stay at home. So this is not about bridging care. These people arrange their care via a full package at home, a modular package at home or a personalised budget. During the treatment of the Long-Term Care Act, we discussed this extensively. We thought at that time, I think we all thought that it was useful to arrange these facilities from the Wlz. People only deal with one law. In practice, however, this proves to be quite complicated. Care agencies have to go shopping for domestic help. People have to turn in their trusted tool to the municipalities, after which they are often given the same tool again by the Healthcare Office. It is not simpler; it is only more bureaucratic and actually more expensive. Many of the people I have spoken about this are not really waiting for this change of law. I read that the Secretary of State has postponed the transfer for the time being. The PvdA Group believes that this is wise. You can only ask yourself whether it is not wise in this case to opt not only for postponement, but also for set-off. Does the Secretary of State think it will be possible for these facilities to pass to the Wlz? If that is not the case, why not just maintain the current situation? At least that leads to a lot of fuss less. However, agreements must be made with municipalities. More and more people with a serious care question will stay at home or live in a clustered form of housing. This means an additional task for municipalities. Municipalities will need to offer more domestic help, tools and home adjustments. They are also people whose self-reliance is often less important. That calls for a different treatment. Does the Secretary of State recognise the signals that clients are not waiting for the transfer to the Wlz of resources for people living at home? Does he think it is a good idea to investigate whether this legal provision should be changed? Does he agree with the PvdA Group that the conditions under which this can be done should also be considered? The fourth and last topic is the sleepover shelter. If you want to get out of it yourself or if it's nice for your neighbors to have some rest, sleepover shelter is a very valuable way of staying temporarily in another place. The Secretary of State proposes that the recent requirement for accommodation to be admitted under the Health Care Institutions Act, the WTZi, should be abolished. According to the PvdA Group, that is a good idea. In practice, it appears that in particular small-scale providers of accommodation have difficulty meeting the requirements of the WTZi. However, we must ensure that good quality care is provided. It's about people staying there. Fortunately, in many cases things are going very well. However, we must be careful that wannabe healthcare providers cannot easily take their share of the money from vulnerable people. I read that the Secretary of State is mainly committed to the monitoring of guest providers afterwards, for example by using the inspection. What role can health care agencies have in front of them, to ensure that people are assured of good sleepover care, without, of course, falling into control and bureaucratic hassle? With this bill we fix some things that need to be repaired. We should just do that when we need to. We want to move from systems to people. Then we must also continue to adapt these systems if that is in the interests of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u34	I would like to know from the PvdA what the consequences might be of this bridging care and the thirteen-week border. What are the conditions for care offices to arrange a place of residence on a reasonable time and at a reasonable distance? Should people, as far as Mr Van Dijk is concerned, be forced to accept that place of residence within thirteen weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mrs Leijten asked very good questions about this in her term. I have the questions she's asking, too. Sometimes people prefer to wait a while for their preference to be set. For that we also have bridge care. This may also be arranged with a vpt and a mpt. There are countless possibilities. But forcing people to live in an institution where they really do not want to live does not seem to me to be the situation we want to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u36	I welcome this answer. I don't think that should be the situation we're going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u37	I would like to raise the question more sharply. Does Mr Van Dijk agree with us that the thirteen-week deadline should be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u38	Well, to be honest, I do have sympathy for the two amendments, from D66 and from the CDA. I understand that a hard limit of 13 weeks can be complicated. What if you're just in that period after that? Should customization be possible? I believe that this was also a point made by Mr Van Weyenberg. I think that should be possible. A number of questions have been asked by D66, the SP, the CDA and Mrs Agema. It is a good thing that we use the Secretary of State's term and our second term to see what the best solution is to prevent us from having the situation we just shared in Mrs Leijten's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mr Van Dijk pretends he hasn't come out yet. We know that from him. Eventually, he'll just vote in favour next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u40	That'd be great, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u41	That kind of annoys me a little bit. I was very specific in asking whether Mr Van Dijk agrees with us that the thirteen-week deadline should be removed. To Mrs Leijten he pretended to want to get rid of the thirteen-week deadline, but to me there is a completely different story. I would like a concrete answer: yes or no, delete or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u42	I think I have indicated to Mrs Leijten that I see the problem and that we need to find a solution to it. You know, I'd be happy to consider whether to delete the thirteen-week deadline, a tailor-made period as suggested by D66 or an extension period as proposed by the CDA. But we have to solve the problem that I do see with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. Following the entry into force of the Long-Term Care Act, the Wmo 2015 and Youth Act as of 1 January last year, it has been found that these laws still need to be supplemented or improved in a number of respects. These points are further elaborated in the present legislative proposal. Firstly, it is proposed to regulate bridging care in the Long-Term Care Act so that insured persons who are awaiting their stay in an institution do not need the care they need and can receive the necessary care temporarily at home. That is a good thing. Secondly, it is a basis for a temporary limited grant for orthocommunicative treatment of autism. In the meantime, it has been decided to phase out this subsidy. Finally, a basis is provided for settling matters concerning the agreement between the client or young person and the third party providing the provision. Care offices have a duty to contract for people so much accommodation that they can stay in an institution within a reasonable period of time and at a reasonable distance from where they live or intend to live. If the client cannot stay in an appropriate institution within a reasonable period of time, he or she may be provided with bridging care. This is now explicitly regulated by the Long-Term Care Act. Transitional care of thirteen weeks is necessary for those who cannot be provided with the necessary care immediately on the day on which the right of residence is acquired. Bridging care cannot be obtained if the client can go to an institution, but this is not the preferred institution. For the VVD, the proposal for bridging care is of great importance. Clients who need 24-hour care within an institution should also be able to obtain it within a reasonable time and at a reasonable distance. Many questions have now been asked by my colleagues. I would like to join some of them. If, under these conditions, this concern cannot be delivered, the proposal still regulates it and preserves people's right to care. With the legislative proposal, it will be possible to grant a grant to the Healthcare Institute temporarily under conditions for orthocommunicative treatment of autism. That care was previously available from the Wlz, but the positioning of this care was not completed after the start of long-term care reforms on 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u44	I think Mr Potters knows what question I'm going to ask: does the VVD think that someone who has to live in an institution but is assigned an institution from the healthcare office where he doesn't want to live can be forced to live there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u45	In my view, this temporary arrangement is really intended to create a bridging arrangement. Within thirteen weeks it should simply be possible for those who need it and who are entitled to do so to provide good care in an institution, appropriate to the client's wishes at that time. After thirteen weeks, is someone forced to go to an institution that does not have his or her preference at all? I think that's the wrong discussion. If we take too much of an extension, I fear that the question will soon be whether there really is still an incentive for healthcare agencies to ensure that people get to the right place. That is what this bill is about; so do we. This includes a temporary bridging arrangement, which should mainly be temporary. Within a tailor-made appointment, much is possible. It should simply be possible to ensure that good care is provided within 13 weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u46	I thought that Mrs Agema showed very nicely how many people are waiting for a place and how few places there are, because that does give us the problem. If, with all its good intentions, you say "we provide for a transitional arrangement, a bridging arrangement," but you do not regulate the underlying problem, namely that there are not enough places and that there are not enough quality places, you may end up in the situation that people are forced to go to a place. You then start with good intentions on an arrangement, but end with an outcome that you don't want at all. I just want a clear answer from the VVD to the question of whether someone should be forced to accept a nursing home where they do not want to live. Does the VVD think that's possible, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u47	I understand why the SP is asking this question so black and white, but of course it's not that black and white. Clients have desires and a need, but there is also the care that that client really needs. This must be done within a reasonable distance and with a good attitude. There's a balance of interests behind what you can offer at some point. I want this deadline of up to 13 weeks to be as short as possible, because I want the incentive to continue to be that the health offices really take everything out of the closet to organise care or to organise care as well as possible. What I do not want is for us to discuss a bridging arrangement, which means that we will continue to postpone it, because it will remove that incentive. It is a good transitional arrangement, but it must be a temporary one. Words such as obligation and force create the impression that it is a black and white discussion. It is not, because, in my view, care agencies should ensure that the institution provides the best possible care with those involved. And that should be possible within 13 weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mrs. Leijten, we're really doing it in two unless a question hasn't been answered. But I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u49	Well, the VVD does say I'm going to postpone the discussion. That is not the case, because the outcome of this bridging arrangement may be that someone has to accept the place that the healthcare office has determined within a reasonable time and a reasonable distance. However, "A reasonable period of time and a reasonable distance" is not reflected in the legislative proposal. We see what the health insurance companies are doing with budget policies: travel only 130 kilometers for care that is also offered around the corner. These are matters on which I think we need to be clear. I fully agree that it should be organised as soon as possible and as close as possible. Indeed, we must also ensure that healthcare agencies organise this together with healthcare providers as soon as possible. At your service, but the outcome may also be that after thirteen weeks someone is forced to live somewhere where they do not want to live. That can't be the outcome, the SP says. I would like to know from the VVD what her answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u50	Of course we do not want people to be forced to go to an institution they really do not want to go to. Of course not, but it must be reasonable what the person concerned wants and what can be done. In my opinion, the health offices take their duty seriously to get it done within thirteen weeks, within a reasonable distance and within a reasonable period of time. You ask a like-dan question, namely: could it be that someone might be forced to...? That's not the discussion. The discussion should be about how to ensure that the bridging regime is as short as possible. That is what the bill says. No one wants people to be forced to sit somewhere against their will if they really don't want to. The questions that have been asked are certainly legitimate, but I assume that it should be possible to offer appropriate care within thirteen weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u51	I think that is a rather risky starting point. I would therefore like to hear what the VVD is basing that on. The VVD thus gives the impression that it takes a very reasonable position, because within thirteen weeks placement should be possible according to the VVD. However, according to the State Secretary's latest figures, there are 13,392 people on a waiting list for a disability institution, for a ggz institution and for a nursing home. My question to Mr Potters of the VVD is: are there so many places available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u52	Of course, there are often more people who want to go to a particular place than there are actually places available there. What matters is that people are helped within a reasonable distance. Thirteen weeks is, as far as I am concerned, a reasonable period of time, which I do not want to prolong because we would then take out the incentive for health offices to take everything out of the closet to put these people in a good place. So I think it's a reasonable time limit. You have asked questions about it and the Secretary of State is perfectly capable of answering them. If it shows that these thirteen weeks are still a little too short and that an extension of a number of weeks is necessary in certain cases, we must accept that. I do not want to prolong that period for days, because then we will get the stimulus out of the system. I do not think that is what Mrs Agema wants either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u53	I do want to, because the PVV is for freedom of choice. The VVD is, under the line, ultimately not for freedom of choice. The question I asked Mr Potters is whether there are places for these 13,392 people on the waiting list. Are there 13,392 spots? If not, Mr Potters can insist that he considers this to be a reasonable period of time, but if those places are not there, he simply cannot keep it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u54	I think it's about what someone wants in a concrete case in their current situation. For some people it will mean that they will use those thirteen weeks for a while and not go straight to an institution. For some it will mean that they will go straight to a...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u55	So he doesn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u56	...instincts go. That also means that they may be able to go to another institution. That discussion should simply take place within the balance that the healthcare office makes with those involved. I believe that the thirteen-week deadline is very reasonable to ensure that people do not have to wait unnecessarily long for the place they are entitled to. I was actually already on another subject, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u57	I'm not yet. I'd like to go on with this. In my view, this is the essence of this part of the bill: what happens after the thirteen-week deadline if no place has been found at a reasonable distance according to the wishes of the person to be included? You can look at this in a financial sense, but sometimes even in a practical sense. I was with Saint Francis in Gilze a while ago. There are empty rooms, and that applies to many more care institutions. If you ask why a room is empty there, the answer is that the healthcare office does not want to buy enough or more places. What if you live in Gilze and your mother has to be admitted? When the thirteen weeks are over, you're just told to go to Breda. Then what happens to this woman according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u58	I think we just had that discussion. It is important that the care offices take everything out of the closet to get a place as close as possible, taking into account the wishes of the people themselves. That's their duty of care. In some cases that can be close, but sometimes it can also mean that someone from Gilze-Rijen goes to Breda. It's possible. Mrs Keijzer is now asking whether they should have their procurement policy in order so that they can buy enough, so that care can be organized nearby. My answer to that is yes. Of course, care agencies have to do that! They should not buy too little or not, which means that people need to move to another place at a greater distance than is strictly necessary. That's the duty of the health offices. I think it is reasonable that there should be a transitional period of 13 weeks so that they can arrange this properly, looking at the wishes of the people themselves, but if it turns out that there is too little structural buying or that people have to go to another place that is unnecessarily far away, the Secretary of State must try to resolve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u59	That's clear. In the first part of the reply, Mr Potters said that this could mean that Mrs Gilze, who wants to go to Saint Francis in Gilze, should go to Breda. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if that's the right reading of this bill and what you can do next to prevent it, while there's just rooms left empty. That is a question about the care purchase, but behind that lies a question about possible sanctions for healthcare agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr Potters, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u61	I was talking about orthocommunicative care for autism. This care is not part of the insured package because the care is not proven effective. The health care institute has previously indicated that the treatment may be eligible for conditional admission to the basic package, provided that there is a sound proposal for this. However, such a proposal was not submitted before 31 December. That is why we think it is logical that there should be a careful phasing-out period. We can therefore wholeheartedly support this section. Together with the PvdA, I have tabled an amendment to this effect, and Mr Van Dijk has already pointed out that the right of transition for people with a complete package at home and with a low care package. In 2015, this group of people had to choose whether they wanted to be admitted to an institution or live at home and pay their own rent, receiving care and support from the Wmo 2015 and the Zvw. In order to prevent people who have converted their healthcare delivery into a complete package from moving home during 2015, it is arranged that they can continue to receive care at home. However, I regularly receive signals that this transition is not properly arranged. That is why an amendment has been tabled. However, I also hear that there is insufficient awareness of the whole package at home. What is the Secretary of State going to do about the latter? How do we ensure that this whole package at home becomes a fully-fledged instrument for the proper regulation of that provision? At the time of the introduction of the Wlz, the right to housing adjustment, tools and domestic assistance was chosen to be the responsibility of the municipality until 1 January 2016 and then transferred to the healthcare offices. The letter of amendment postponed this transfer until further notice in order to examine how a careful transfer is possible. Could the Secretary of State say a little more about this? So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Potters. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u63	I had suspended the sitting until 11.45 a.m., but now it appears that there is a need for a longer suspension. I shall therefore suspend the sitting again until 12 noon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. We are indeed talking today about a sort of collecting law, which addresses a number of issues related to the discussion we have had over the past year. Sometimes this was on the basis of things that played in practice in which we wanted to make change and sometimes it was technical changes. I think that emphasis has been placed in the debate. There are at least two issues that have been raised by many: bridging care and house adjustments. There are many more, but I shall deal with them when dealing with the questions raised by the individual speakers. As I have said, I shall begin with the bridging care, on which many questions have been asked and comments have been made. How's the bridge care going? From the moment there is an indication that care is needed in the context of the Wlz, that care will be provided in the Wlz. There is a need for bridging care if there is no place at the time or because there is no place in the preferred setting. Then the care office will have to work on the duty of care to ensure that a place for the client is found as soon as possible. As long as this is not the case, bridging care will be provided. In this bill we actually say: if you then arrange this bridge care, you put a number of requirements that you normally impose on the care in the Wlz overboard. I'm referring to the efficiency requirement. The law states that care at home should not be more expensive than care in the institution. In the context of bridging care, you have to drop that requirement. After all, you're waiting for a spot, so you can be a little "soupeeler" with the rules. That's the thought behind it. There is pressure on the care office to ensure that that care is delivered as soon as possible. They then asked about the thirteen weeks. That period has a dual effect: on the one hand, you want to keep the time limit for bridging care as short as possible, in the interests of the client, on the other hand, we want to keep the pressure on the care office to avoid saying: bridge care is arranged, that's fine, then we don't have to look. I'm saying it very simply now, that's not how it works in practice at all. The deadline of 13 weeks allows the NZa to see if sufficient effort is being made to get a place in the preferred setting. But what happens if no delivery is made within 13 weeks? Well, then, of course, care doesn't stop, because it can't. You have an indication for the Wlz, so the duty of care remains intact. So the thirteen-week deadline doesn't mean anything to the client, it means nothing to the care office. If the deadline of thirteen weeks is very often exceeded, then the NZa really has a title to appeal to the healthcare office. I think it's in the client's best interest to keep an eye on a certain period of time within which everything needs to be arranged. If it's not settled within that time frame, it's hard to let the care stop. Of course that is not the case. I would like to make that quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u65	This is the point that everyone has asked for. Is this it, or does the Secretary of State need more text to explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u66	I have a little bit of text left on this block over the thirteen weeks. Maybe it's good to finish that block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u67	I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u68	How exactly is that going to happen? The conditions have been relaxed and care has to be found within 13 weeks. If that does not work, the deadline must be extended. To this end, consultations will take place between the healthcare office and the client in question on what needs to be done. The practice is not so much that the healthcare office is going to see where the client can go. This may occur if there is a request for mediation, but the practice is that people themselves seek a place in an institution, then develop a preference and indicate whether or not they are willing to wait for a place in the preferred institution. In most cases, the question of whether one wishes to consider going to another institution is not prompted by the health office, but by the fact that it simply no longer exists at home. So you come across a very difficult balance, which is also very sad. The question is whether the care is still at home, with the bridge care at home or with renewed bridge care at home, or whether it is really not going to happen anymore and you still want to go to an institution, even if it is not the setting of your preference. That is a avoidable situation, but it happens sometimes, because the situation becomes so difficult and acute that people choose to go to an institution that does not have their preference. I believe that this will enable this part of the debate to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u69	The Secretary of State is doing exactly what I expected him to do: he pretends that the bridging care and the thirteen-week period are in the interests of all those waiting. I had already asked my colleagues in the first term for the following. There are 13,392 people on a waiting list for a place in a disabled institution, a ggz institution or a nursing home. My question to the Secretary of State is how many free spaces there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u70	The free spaces we can count at an institution, you can't just add up. Even if it were theoretically the case that we would have exactly as many free spaces as there is demand, that is still geographically spread. So that doesn't help if you prefer a place in the neighborhood. That's not gonna help. That is why we have a national clear definition of who is waiting and how many there are. That's 13,392, of which 9,778 people now have bridge care. A number of people also have an indication and are also on a waiting list, but then we get into the terminology that we want to avoid together. There are also people who already have an indication and say that they do not need to go to an institution for the time being, because the situation is such that they still want to stay home. So the waiting list information says something about how many people are waiting on a list, but doesn't say anything about the acute situation and doesn't say anything about the number of free places.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u71	I had a very specific question. The Secretary of State asks us to vote on this law next Tuesday, with the deadline of 13 weeks. He is asking us to vote on this. I asked him for crucial information, namely whether if there are more than 13,000 people on a waiting list, there are 13,000 places. If there are 13,000 places, you can manage some people somewhere by moving them. However, if there are no such places, if there are 4,000 or 2,000 or 0 places available, the Secretary of State is arranging for his bridging care after thirteen weeks simply to be imposed. That is quite different from the mantra of freedom of choice. The Secretary of State is asking us to vote next Tuesday. I'm gonna ask him again to come up with the information on how many free spaces there are available. It's crucial to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u72	Firstly, it was sent to the Chamber in response to Mrs Agema's questions about the waiting lists and the places. Secondly, the number of free places is not a kind of stock photograph. There are no empty spaces waiting for people. Those places in institutions are released when someone dies. The free space is then filled again. So that picture doesn't mean anything. It's about whether people are well-intermediated to a place in the institution and that, if they can't, there's bridging care. I have just indicated that we are managing this bridging care in two ways. The first is that if you receive bridging care, the normal conditions of effectiveness do not apply. The second is that, if there isn't a spot after thirteen weeks, of course you can't be forced to go to an institution you don't want to go to at all. After all, this concern must continue. That's exactly what this bill is about. That thirteen-week period is intended to ensure that there is sufficient effort, including from the healthcare office, to actively search for a place suitable for the person in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u73	On a point of order, the Secretary of State has just suggested that this information about the free spaces has been sent to the Chamber. That is wrong; I am far from it. I've asked the Secretary of State to come forward with that information, but he doesn't have it. However, he does ask us to vote later, while 13,000 people are on the waiting list and he has no idea how many free spaces there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u74	This is quite a relevant question. There are also places that are not available for as long as you would like, simply because they cannot be filled in from the healthcare office. A photo through a simple tour of all institutions could provide crucial information, including for the policy of the Secretary of State himself. However, I have another question. That thirteen-week period would encourage care firms to find a good place; that is what the Secretary of State says all the time, but what does it mean at the same time if he says that someone is generally going to find where he likes to live, sign up there and perhaps have to wait? Does this mean that the healthcare office lets that happen and after thirteen weeks says: you haven't been able to find it yourself; now you're going to live there? Or does the office say after 13 weeks that it didn't succeed; you still have 13 weeks of bridging care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u75	I have wanted to point out that sometimes mediation is requested by the healthcare office, because there is no place to find. Then the care office will intercede. In most cases one goes in search of oneself to see if a place in an institution is suitable. If so, they say that they want to go there and whether or not they want to wait until a place is available there. That thirteen-week period is intended to make it clear that the healthcare office has an active duty of care for those people, whether on request or not. Of course, it depends on that: if someone has an indication and says "forget it," that search will not be there, unless the client wants that search. If someone wants a place in an institution, the health office has a duty to look for it within a period of thirteen weeks. If that does not work, the bridge care will indeed be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u76	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u77	This is crucial, because it is said here that the thirteen-week deadline is mainly an instrument for improving the functioning of health offices, but the consequences will be for those for whom no place has been found. That means they're being sent somewhere. I just want the Secretary of State's promise that no one will be forced to live somewhere he doesn't want to live, apart from crisis situations. In crisis situations, this has to happen sometimes, but if someone doesn't want to go to the place that the healthcare office found for him, they can never be forced to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u78	No, you won't, because if you don't go there, you won't go there. Then the bridging care will be extended and then the regular discussion will take place in line with the Long-Term Care Act: which care is effective and is it justified? Then it's just about the rules in the Wlz. Very specifically, I say that the healthcare office must pay attention. There may be situations where someone says: listen, I am not going to that institution. Then the professional must say: care in the home situation is really no longer responsible, so are you sure? Beyond the efficiency requirements laid down in the law. However, no one can be forced to go to an institution if he does not want to. Then care will have to be taken care of at home, but with the remark that there must always be a professional to see if it is still justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr President, I would ask you if I may ask another follow-up question, because I am not yet here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u81	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u82	In the discussion, the one who needs care is not the leading party. We'd love to, but it's a decision for that person. Can the next situation arise? After thirteen weeks of bridging care, the person in question says: I do not want to go to the place that the care office has arranged for me. Then comes the debate on efficiency. If it would not be effective at home according to the law, then someone would be given so little concern that a crisis situation would automatically arise, which would force someone to go to that place. We call it "care content," but that is actually organized by undressed care. I see from the Secretary of State that such a situation will not occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u83	No, the situation will rather be so that you should have so much care at home that it is no longer responsible or effective. These are the discussions that take place in practice. Of course, you can't say after 13 weeks: you won't get any more care. In fact, that is not possible at all, because you have an indication for the Wlz and the institution has a duty of care. If there is no place in the institution then care should be arranged at home. This should then continue until it is really impossible for reasons of substance or efficiency. Then you have that meeting with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u84	This is the jumping point. I want to prevent us from standing here in a year's time with some examples of people forced to move. That is why I have the following question. After these thirteen weeks, all the demands of the Wlz are resurrected: it must be effective in the financial sense and it must be justified to give care at home. We are talking about the people who have a heavy need for care. Thirteen weeks go by. No place is found to be satisfactory at a reasonable distance. You're gonna get yourself into a situation where people are forced to go someplace they don't want to go? We're talking about people with such a heavy need for care that they can't actually do it at home. In any case, it is so expensive that it is said on the basis of the WlZ: and now I refuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u85	There's a Wlz indication, so heavy care is needed. On that basis we say: if that place is still not there after thirteen weeks, then we are going to arrange bridging care, setting aside a number of requirements to at least continue to provide care in the home situation. So if after thirteen weeks that place is still not there, then that situation will continue. It is still said that the person in question must look for a place, but the bridge care is continued. Nowhere has it been arranged that it will fall back to lighter care. The reverse situation may arise, namely that the demand for care will not fall but will increase more as it lasts longer and so people will be faced with the question of how much longer they will last. Then you get a discussion about whether the bridging care should be continued or that it really isn't at home anymore and you have to decide with each other to go to an institution, because you get the care you're entitled to and, most importantly, that you really need. The bridging care will therefore always be a continuation of the care that has been agreed. After that, the trade-off will be rather: are we still holding together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u86	After these thirteen weeks, the article which states that the efficiency requirements also apply to the decision to withdraw indications for a complete package at home or a modular package at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u87	Where do you read that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u88	In the law. In practice, you get the situation that it won't be as much a conversation as the Secretary of State means: "Is it wise?" And "Shouldn't we want something else?" In practice, you get the situation that is said: "This concern is no longer effective. You have to go to an institution. The thirteen weeks are over. We have an institution for you 40 kilometers away." I think this analysis is correct, and we all don't want it. That's what we all say here: we don't want anyone going to a place he doesn't want to go. What are the penalties for getting a healthcare office to buy a place that does meet the reasonable requirements of distance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u89	That is precisely why it is wise to use some time to maintain the pressure on duty of care. That is not to allow the client to suffer after the thirteen-week period, because if there is no place, the increased bridge care will have to continue because otherwise it will not work. Then, however, the need to find a place will become even stronger. I really think that we should continue to ensure that the healthcare offices continue to do their best to ensure that the period is as short as possible, but the client should not suffer from this. I have also pointed out that the situation is often the other way round: as it takes longer, the question of care becomes so difficult that sometimes it stops at home and you come to the conclusion that someone has to go to a place that is unfortunately not the preferred one but where he gets the care that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u90	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u91	But then in your congregation, or at a reasonable distance, there's an institution where a room is empty. That's where you call and you say, "I want to be in this room because I can't do it anymore." And then the healthcare institution says: I understand, but the healthcare office didn't buy enough places from us. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u92	In such acute situations, a solution is always found. That's one. Secondly, that is exactly why we are talking about how to further enhance customer follow-up in the system. That goes in two ways. Firstly, the current system already examines whether health care firms already take account of customer preferences they know in advance, for example on the basis of the waiting list. Secondly, we want to introduce to the future the next person's funding, which automatically allows us to follow the client's preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr President, one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u94	No, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u95	Where is this in this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mrs. Keijzer, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u97	Mr President, this is fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u98	Everything is fundamental, but when we make agreements with each other, I also want them to be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u99	I have one more question, Mr President. Where does the Secretary of State say in this bill now? Then we are done; then we have legally regulated what we all want with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mrs Keijzer, I would ask you to stick to the agreements we make with each other. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u101	I do not know whether this answer satisfies Mrs Keijzer, but this is at the heart of the duty of care. The core of the care obligation of the care office in an indication for the Wlz is: if there is a need for a place in an institution, the care office should ensure that this place is found. This means that a deadline has been set within which that must be done. In this legislative proposal we arrange for there to be bridging care which is a little heavier than usual, if it is necessary in those thirteen weeks. Well, then you can. If it is not settled after thirteen weeks, that period can of course be extended, but there is pressure on the healthcare office to do so. There is also the supervision of the Healthcare Authority at the healthcare offices. With these thirteen weeks, we have an instrument in our hands to check whether the healthcare office is doing its best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u102	I am surprised at this debate, because I think we are finished. However, I understand Mrs Keijzer's question as to where it is arranged. The thirteen-week limit is now quite hard in the law. I think it was also the reason why Mrs Keijzer had the need to table an amendment. Mrs Bergkamp has also tabled an amendment. Of course, we prefer a solution within thirteen weeks, so a place in the setting of preference and otherwise the bridging care. But if it's not settled within 13 weeks, it shouldn't stop. In that case, the increased efficiency requirements should not apply. That's what I hear the Secretary of State himself say. So to get it all done, I ask the Secretary of State: how do we get what we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr Van Dijk has read in the legislative proposal that the efficiency requirements do not apply in those cases where bridging care needs to be regulated. We'll take care of that in this bill. There's no record that they're due to expire after the 13 weeks. Those thirteen weeks concern the operation of the instrument to the healthcare office. That means there will be an extension after those 13 weeks. Only I said: pay attention, the situation will often be so that it is not that problem, but simply the simple fact that it is no longer at home. This means that the pressure on the care office to complete the duty of care in such a way that someone finds a place can be linked to those thirteen weeks. Then everyone can see to what extent the health offices manage to do so. Is there a sufficiently active policy on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u104	I therefore understand that there is no hard limit at the end of the thirteen-week period and that this time limit can therefore be extended. This is in line with the amendments tabled by the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u105	It is not arranged for the increased bridging care to stop after those thirteen weeks. This bill deals precisely with the fact that this increased bridging care is there. The deadline of 13 weeks has an effect on the care office and not so much on the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u106	I'm getting a little abdominal pain from this discussion. We have seen in the past how painful an indication could be. Then the terminal indication was only issued for 13 weeks and if someone hadn't died, the end story was. We said that we should not do that. Aren't we in such a situation now? We do this for the health offices, but isn't it the result that it just gets in the hands of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u107	No, I don't think so, just because of the guarantees we're creating right now. On the one hand, there is a time limit within which the care offices are supposed to complete the duty of care. On the other hand, there is a bridging arrangement which allows the client in such a situation not to have to meet the requirements normally laid down in the law. Moreover, there is supervision by the Dutch Healthcare Authority and that makes it possible to check whether healthcare agencies are doing their best. Then there is an ultimatum remedium: the law also provides for the possibility of setting out conditions for the ministerial arrangement to be applied by the healthcare office. That way we can keep an eye on whether this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u108	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u109	Of course, you can also get the situation that the healthcare office is just waiting until the crisis is so big that someone is forced to go where they don't want to be. That's kind of the annoying thing about the Secretary of State's explanation. People like to wear out their last years as close as possible and as well as possible. That is what policy must be aimed at. Time limits, incentives, pressure and efficiency ensure that discussions are about other things. If your care costs are just €1 more expensive if you stay at home for a while, you have to go to an institution that has been selected for you. That can't be the way the law works, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u110	Allow me to say that we are dealing precisely with the fact that this is not the case. We arrange for the requirements contained in the law to be simply put aside in the situation where bridging care is needed. I also said that we do not arrange for it to stop, but that we believe that the healthcare office should continue to do its best to arrange it as soon as possible. This can be monitored. Moreover, we have a ministerial arrangement which can lay down detailed rules if necessary. I think that we can keep an eye on whether things are going well with sufficient guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u111	Does the ministerial regulation stipulate that, if a room is available in the nursing home of choice but the care office has not sufficiently purchased, the care office is obliged to buy a place in it? Well, then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u112	No, because you can never do that at individual room level at settings. The aim of the care purchase is to purchase sufficient care from institutions throughout the country and also from healthcare offices in the region. This leads you to decide in advance: at so many institutions we buy in so many places. The healthcare office often does not complete this, as it may need to be able to respond to changing healthcare questions by mid-year. For this there must be some flexibility in the system. We are going to a system in which personal succession is regulated in its generality. Of course, you cannot require a care office under ministerial regulation to buy a room from an institution. I don't think Mrs Keijzer would want that either, would she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u113	Why not? We are discussing this with each other. In my opinion, after the thirteen-week deadline, people can end up in the situation of having to go to an institution they do not want to go to, because care is no longer effective. That is the ground for refusal in the Wlz and the ground on which you can withdraw an indication. It's possible. If you come to the conclusion at some point that it is no longer effective to be at home with a full or modular package and you have to go to an institution, that is exactly one of the grounds for refusal. I understand the idea that we want to take care of this, but I am asking how we can prevent someone from going to an institution after thirteen weeks. So I am looking for sanctions; that is what I said in my speech. One of the possibilities for ministerial regulation in these situations is to say no more than 9 000 people: a room is available here, someone can enter it and we are going to make sure that it is bought in. The Secretary of State says two opposite things. First, he says that it is regulated for the whole year and then he says that flexibility should remain possible. I am looking for a flexible arrangement that prevents someone from being admitted 50 km away against his will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u114	That is precisely why we say: make sure that a place is sought which is preferred and arrange in this bill that if that place is not there, bridging care can be created which, if necessary, can go beyond the rights under the law. I have said that we have arranged that this bridge care does not end after 13 weeks. However, we do want the care office to be under sufficient pressure to find that place. Then you can't say: if there's a room somewhere empty, must the care office buy it? Maybe someone else is eligible for that room. Of course, in acute situations, we must always be able to act. In practice, someone is looking for an institution and he or she decides whether or not to wait. Sometimes the care office is asked to intercede. In acute situations, efforts should be made to find a solution to this problem. Then you do not have some sort of purchasing arrangement with ministerial arrangement for a problem that has to be solved if that scheme still needs to be made. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u115	I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to go further on this. He's been at it for half an hour now, and he's had four minutes to speak. As a result, he has barely reached the questions asked. Is that all right with you, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u116	When the Secretary of State brings up the practice, I always have a practical example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u117	I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u118	These are poignant examples of people being ripped out of their environment, because it is not possible to go to the care or nursing home nearby. In the past, the Secretary of State never said that he was sorry that people who had to leave the nursing home because it was closed had to move to another village eleven kilometres away. Then why would he stand for that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u119	I suggest that the Secretary of State should take this comment with him in his follow-up statement. Mrs Leijten always has the opportunity to go into that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u120	All measures, including in this context, aim to take into account the client's wishes as much as possible. We put pressure on the process to find a good place. From my letter Wonderful life with care it can be inferred that we also place the position of the client and the residents more at the centre in a more general sense by assuming patient succession and not so much from regional budgets in the buying-in and financing of care. I think I've answered most of the questions about bridging care. Some questions have been asked about the five-day funding. This is mainly an administrative arrangement. The transition from care based on Wmo and the Health Insurance Act to an indication based on the Long-Term Care Act may take some time before the administration is complete. Those who provide the care can then pay for another five days so that they can be properly taken over. There is no other policy behind that. This is intended to make it administratively easier. The Wlz indication starts from the first moment and parties have made this agreement to arrange this administratively well. It seems to me only sensible that they have agreed to this in such a way as to allow this to land well in the administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u121	This complicates the assessment of the financial impact of the various health care laws. That's why there's five days each time someone's in one system but they're paid out of the other. We all know that indicative processes do not run from today to tomorrow. Why not just, knowing that there's an indication coming, say: on this day we start paying out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u122	Because it's useful to take some time to settle that. That's it. It is not the case that this has a huge shift in budgets as an effect. As far as that would happen, parties are man enough to ring the bell, I know from experience. In that sense, I don't think it's gonna cause any problems. I shall come back to Mr Van Dijk's specific proposal when I comment on his contribution. A number of specific questions have been asked about bridging care. I'm not sure I understood Mrs Leijten correctly when she asked about rehabilitation care. Rehabilitation care as such is included in the Health Insurance Act and not in the Long-Term Care Act. In rehabilitation, it is important that older people with a temporary additional care question whether they need to be monitored for a short period of time can go to an appropriate institution. It could be that Mrs Leijten is talking about the first-line residence. This can take place in the home situation but also in rehabilitation care. We have made a number of agreements with each other on how to streamline and shape it better. We have also made some extra money available for this. Perhaps Mrs Leijten can clarify it in the second term if I have misunderstood her question. Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Leijten discussed the question of the obligation to contract. If a contract obligation were to be introduced again, there would not be so much financial consequences as there would be the risk that care would be bought from healthcare providers where we had doubts about quality. If healthcare agencies are obliged to buy care from all institutions, we are very much lost from the discussion we are having with each other, such as the discussion about quality and how to do it in a different way, following on from person. We have talked about this before, and I would not be in favour of it. Finally, on this point, I would like to address the question of why the transition from the ggz is not included in this legislative proposal. We made the agreement that the health care institute will come up with an opinion on this. I expect the cabinet response in May. On that basis and on the basis of the choices made, I will discuss with the Chamber whether that would require amendment of the various laws. It might be good to go into the house adjustments now, because a number of comments have been made on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u123	Before you continue, an interruption on the previous point, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u124	Yes. I think it's good to ask when you need to go to a care facility and who decides for you to deal with the distance and time criteria as well. What is a reasonable distance according to the Secretary of State? And can health care agencies act like health insurance companies, saying, "You're only gonna go for a new hip"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u125	A reasonable distance will always be very individual. That has to do with someone's individual situation, but also with the type of care. There may be forms of care that are only provided in a few places in the Netherlands. That is a completely different criterion than when you are wondering what is reasonably feasible. I think it is really good if we give care firms and clients the opportunity to look at what is reasonable and what is acceptable and unacceptable in the individual situation. I have no illusion that we in this Chamber can standardize or regulate that for everyone. We need some room in the system so that we can discuss it with each other. However, we must, of course, ensure that care obligations are properly complied with, that they are monitored and that, if we have any doubts, we consider what further measures we could take. It is necessary to look at how this is done and to make agreements on an individual level. That's really very essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u126	If there is only one institution that provides certain care, then you must travel far. However, if several care institutions provide certain care and you would like that care to be close, then at this moment a care office can say: sorry, you cannot go there, because I have not bought any care there and I find it reasonably possible that you go from Haarlem to Zandvoort, or from Didam to Zeddam, or from Murderrecht to Gouda, or from Gilze to Breda. This while it's very far-reaching decisions. I want to know from the Secretary of State what he thinks is reasonable. I think that's a reasonable question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u127	I think this is an unreasonable question. Which institution you go to, whether the distance to it is reasonable and whether that is acceptable to you or not, is a very individual matter. Mrs Leijten will also agree with this in all the examples she knows. Whatever we make up with each other, it's not like there are all kinds of institutions in the Netherlands where places are empty and they're waiting for someone to show up. Sometimes it may be that in your own village or city there is an institution where you can go or where you want to go and you are willing to wait for a spot to be released. Sometimes, however, the situation at home is so serious that you have to go to another place because it provides responsible care. So that depends on the seriousness of the care and on how long you can wait, where your acquaintances are and how your family feels about it. We cannot and should not want to do that in The Hague. This should be agreed between the parties in reasonable terms. I assume that everyone wants to do the same with that intention. If that does not go well, we also have procedures for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u128	There's always a need for consultation. If there is a crisis, you must be able to get somewhere quickly. However, it is specifically mentioned here as something that can be applied by the healthcare office. And then the alarm bells start ringing with me. In that case, care offices can set the conditions and they can say: Mrs Arib, we think it is very reasonable that you should live 25 km away. And where are you? What legal basis do you have? So you have to get that out of the law. Then you just have to say: there must always be good consultation and all parties must agree. Then you shouldn't include in it that a care office determines what a reasonable distance is. That just has to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u129	I think it is only reasonable that you should arrange for someone to have the right to a place in an institution and that as long as there is not yet, there is a need for bridging care and that you can arrange for more care than is normally provided for in the law. So you come to the conclusion that in someone's situation, it's reasonable. I do not just mean reasonable in financial terms, because we have some rules for that in the law. In the vast majority of cases, the main question will be what is still justified in terms of substance. In a lot of cases I come across, we all have personal experiences, and it's not about that question, but more about how long people will last at home, choosing to stay at home as long as possible and only at last saying: if you have to, do it, because it won't last at home. Then I come to the question of house adjustments. When I observe the questions raised by the various Members on this point, the following points are made. It was arranged in a certain way. We all thought it would be better, under the Long-Term Care Act, to create a one-stop shop, in the sense that home adjustments and tools could be arranged from a single window. In all conversations about that transfer, however, we ran into a lot of questions. How do parties feel about that? It is going well now and what exactly is the added value of this transfer? Those are all questions we're looking at right now. I understand the Chamber very well. I do not think I fully agree with the conclusion that postponement should be postponed, but I understand the question of the Chamber to me to look at the variant of set-aside. I'm willing to do that. My criterion for this is: what is the best in the client's interest? The idea was to do it from a one-stop shop because this would be the most useful thing. However, if its benefits do not outweigh its disadvantages, such as the transfer and the regulation whereby each party has to change all kinds of procedures, then I am prepared to look at that variant as well. Give me the opportunity to discuss this with the parties again. Then I come to a number of specific questions. Mrs Leijten asked whether the indicative guidelines could be sent to the House of Representatives. I will. I would like to point out that last year the Wlz 2015 Policy Guidelines were sent to the Chamber. That's what a VSO was about. In the AO Act of 3 March, I undertook to send a letter in response to Mrs Leijten's case. I will also send the CIZ Policy Guidelines Wlz 2016 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u130	The bridging care can be carried out with retroactive effect. That's what this law's gonna do. However, does the Secretary of State recognise that if you no longer qualify for the Wlz because the directives have been tightened up so that you have to be completely out of control and need very, very intensive care, it is actually paper that we are dealing with here and not reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mrs Leijten is assuming that the CIZ indication rules have been tightened up in such a way that this leads to all kinds of other issues. I invite her to use the policy guidelines that I will send to give an indication that she already has in 2015 and she will be given the one about 2016 to review her own premise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u132	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u133	I have seen from someone who needs a lot of care, a rejection of the indication because he can direct himself, call for help and wait for that help. Those are three criteria that mean you don't belong in the Wlz if you can hit a bell. If these are the criteria for an indication in the Wlz, then the bridging care will apply to a very, very limited group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mrs Van Leijten assumes two assumptions. The first is that the criterion would be "push the button." Quod nun. The second assumption is that you don't get care if you don't qualify according to the criteria of the Wlz. Quod nun. In these cases, there are provisions, both in the Wmo and the Health Insurance Act, which, of course, must provide the appropriate care needed for the person concerned. It is not that there is only good care if you are eligible according to the Wlz. That would be the reverse world. If there are claims under the Health Insurance Act or if appropriate provisions are required under the Wmo, I assume they will be met. Once again, I invite Mrs Leijten to test her assumptions on the basis of the documents she receives. Then the question as to why small-scale accommodation facilities are excluded from the WTZi requirement. Budget holders can freely choose their healthcare provider. So that doesn't have to be a WTZi setting. During the introduction of the Long-Term Care Act, we made an exception for the accommodation. The obligation to buy that care from a WTZi institution was only applicable for the accommodation. Today's bill doesn't really create an exception, but it undos an exception. So after the adoption of this bill, the WTZi requirement expires for all purchases of budget holders. Mrs Leijten does, by the way, touch on another point. That has to do with the renewal agenda A decent life with care that I have sent to the Chamber. If care in kind is possible, while unnecessary care is bought in and could only be done through a pgb, I would find both undesirable. I would then like to promote that it is also easier for small-scale funded pgb institutions to buy that care. In fact, a number of health offices are also working on it at that time. I agree with Mrs Leijten on this point. We should not go to a personalised budget for small-scale care, but also to small-scale care agencies where this is indicated. I would also like to come back to that when I discuss the letter 'Werkelijk leven' with concern, which I hope I will be able to discuss with the Chamber soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u135	In this repair legislation, the WTZi requirement is deleted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u136	For sleepover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u137	Yeah, for sleepover. But that's an exception to the rest. That is why I ask the Secretary of State, if the exception for pgb-funded sleepover care expires, why does he not look at the obstacles in the WTZi to buy in kind care from other small-scale care institutions? That's the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u138	So we undo an exception; that's one. Two: should it no longer be possible to buy in care in kind, even when it comes to small-scale institutions so that they do not have to opt for pgb financing? I agree with Mrs Leijten. The practice is that it can be done. I would like to go into more detail with the Chamber in the debate on how we can further promote this. You can see that care agencies are already doing this and are already thinking about this. They used to be financed out of pgbs, but maybe they don't have to. You notice it's possible in practice. Mrs Leijten asked whether the approval of budget holders by the Social Insurance Bank would also apply to the pgb in the Youth Act and whether that would be possible. She also asked if this is a new problem. Yeah, that's gonna work for both the Wmo and the Youth Act. This adaptation will improve the organisation of tasks already assigned. The Sociale Verzekeringsbank is also currently responsible for the labour law test on the care contract, but now has to refuse payments afterwards. With this ability to pre-check, the process is easier and more efficient. This is also in the interest of budget holders and providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u139	I have a brief question about the previous point. In my view, Mrs Leijten's question was 'I have that question too'. That is sensible, but does it still exist for care in kind in the same small institutions? That wouldn't make any sense. You would say that it expires for small-scale accommodation, whether it is funded out of care in kind or from a pgb. You're gonna get that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u140	At the time, it was not for nothing that we said to each other, including from the point of view of governance, that it is wise to make a number of demands to institutions in which there is long-term residence, whether they are small-scale or large-scale. One of them is the WTZi requirement. Sleeping quarters are very temporary. Do you really need to talk about a residence? That may be a very strict requirement. That is why the exception that has been made has been undone. The follow-up question is whether the WTZi requirement is an obstacle to the procurement of small-scale institutions. That is actually the essence of the question. I don't think so, but I'm willing to look into that. In practice, there are many small-scale institutions that can increasingly be contracted by health offices. In advance, I do not see that there are the biggest bottlenecks. However, if Mr Van Dijk asks me to look carefully at this in the context of the debate on decent living, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u141	I'm very glad the Secretary of State wants to look at the latter. In my opinion, it should not matter whether a small overnight shelter is financed by pgb or is financed by care in kind. In both cases, of course, the authorisation requirements "WTZi requirement' must be the same. I'm glad the Secretary of State will look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions of the D66 Group which I have not yet answered in the context of bridging care. I'll start with the removal permit. The consultation of the grant decision is indeed a factor in the direction of the municipalities. Mr Van Weyenberg also pointed out this. Both municipalities and certified institutions, the Children's Protection Board, the Public Prosecutor and the Judicial Council, have asked about their experience of how this has so far been dealt with in the new system. We have promised before that I will inform the Chamber about this in more detail in the coming summer. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me to do so. I certainly want to do that. Then the speed. The Civil Code states that there is no urgent need to wait for a decision by the College to grant it. The article allows to apply for an authorisation to move out without submitting a grant decision if the young person's interest so requires. In such cases, more speed can indeed be achieved. I've been asked if I share the concerns about the conditional authorization. The conditional authorisation instrument is included in the Youth Act to allow a young person who is actually eligible for admission to a closed accommodation to receive youth assistance under specific conditions outside that accommodation. I can't do that without the judge's intervention. This will only happen if the person concerned agrees to the conditions. The judge then assesses in advance whether a young person may be placed in a closed position and under what conditions that might be averted. These conditions must be in the youth's plan. Thereafter, there should be a factual assessment of the youth aid provider concerned whether the conditions laid down by the children's court can be complied with and whether, if they have been violated and the young person is severely hampered in development, it cannot be excluded from the closed accommodation. If the young person does not agree with that factual judgment, he can refer it back to the children's court. So it's complicated, but there's always a judge's judgment. If the person concerned does not agree, the case may also be referred to the children's court. This seems to me to be sufficient to ensure that it does not take place in any other way than is intended by the legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u143	The judge may decide on this afterwards, but do I understand the Secretary of State that there is always, in the possibilities he mentions, a judge's opinion in advance? Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u144	The judge shall assess in advance whether a young person may be placed in a closed position and under what conditions. I come to Mrs Keijzer's questions. We've already exchanged all the necessary information about the care purchase. I also replied to the question on the authorisation of removal. Those were Mr Van Weyenberg's questions. The funding of the various domains was requested. I have already addressed this in the general answer. The orthocommunicative treatment was requested. The problem is that the orthocommunicative treatment of autism involves unproven effective care laid down in a report by the Healthcare Institute. At the end of September 2015, the Healthcare Institute indicated that this care is not eligible for conditional admission to the Health Insurance Act. According to the Healthcare Institute, there is no reason to believe that the regular ggz, the Youth Act and the adult ggz, are not sufficient. Kentalis, the provider of this care, has decided to stop this care after a period of careful phasing out. Care is offered so far in the Eindhoven region. Kentalis now works constructively with municipalities, other partners in the ggz and appropriate education in the Eindhoven region on the transfer of clients, on the communication of a client with autism and employees with experience in that target group. That consultation in the Eindhoven region is going well, I get reported. It seems to me that we have ensured in this way that care for these clients can continue in a responsible manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u145	I understand that the answer to my question whether the Secretary of State would like to talk to the VNG to make this part of the procurement through the framework agreement of top-regional care is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u146	It would be a little strange if we had an opinion from the Healthcare Institute saying that this is not proven to be effective care, to require that care to be purchased nationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u147	Hasn't that been a consideration under the basic Health Insurance Act package? So it is not a question of whether it is proven effective in the context of medical care, but of whether it can be part of guidance for young people with autism. Or does the Secretary of State say that what we've been doing there all these years has been unnecessary, because it didn't make any sense and didn't add anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u148	The process of conditional admission is that you do it for a while and then look at what the results and effects are, so that you can also see whether it is effective or not. It now comes out that it is unproven effective care. It would be a step too far for me to say now: thank you for this conclusion, we are going to oblige the municipalities to purchase it nationally. This would not be sufficient to take account of the opinions delivered on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u149	Does that also apply to the inpatient treatment of these children? If so, why include a subsidy scheme in the Long-Term Care Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u150	This grant scheme is set out in the Long-Term Care Act to allow for a financial basis to ensure that the project has been financed during the conditional authorisation period. It is a subsidy scheme which is intended only to be able to pay legally the activities carried out under that conditional authorisation and to achieve a responsible phasing-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u151	So, what, you're gonna stop the grant scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u152	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u153	As of 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u154	As of 31 December 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u155	So the only reason why this is included in the law is to provide a legal basis for the grants granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u156	Exactly. Mrs Keijzer also had a question about labour law in relation to the debate on drawing rights. The employment test has already been invested in the Social Insurance Bank. The improvement plan ensures that the Social Insurance Bank can also operationalise that task. We have to wait and see whether these alternatives will also lead to a change of opinion on the review of labour law. We will be able to look at that in due course. Mrs Keijzer asked a question about the distribution of profits. At the Eerste Kamer, a change in the WTZi is in progress which, after acceptance, means that in-house facilities, which are also included in small-scale housing facilities, may not make a profit, and extramural facilities, which include small-scale accommodation facilities, may make a profit. Moreover, this situation has existed for many years. I think this distinction makes sense, because we distinguish between extramural and intramural, which we have been doing for some years. I have already made a number of comments on the withdrawal of the WTZi.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u157	The Secretary of State says he thinks it makes sense that accommodation facilities are not included, but why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u158	Because accommodation facilities do not involve in-house care in the sense that there can be a long-term stay in these institutions, which was the reason for that distinction at the time. So I think it is logical that a lodging facility should be seen as a care other than an in-house accommodation facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u159	That is correct, but it is a question of whether we want to allow a profit distribution. The bill, which is in the First Chamber, states that a profit distribution is not allowed for care with residence, inpatient care, because we do not want profits to be paid over care financed by Wlz premiums. But why wouldn't that also apply to sleepover facilities? After all, we know that there are health care institutions that are getting bigger and bigger as a result of mergers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u160	The scale is another issue. The distinction made in the bill, which lies in the First Chamber, is the distinction between intramural and extramural. I indicated to you that accommodation facilities are considered to be extramural institutions, because there is no permanent residence. That is the distinction that has been made in the question of profit distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u161	Mrs Keijzer, do not raise a new issue and really stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u162	But why? I can't help but wonder why it wasn't chosen in one case and the other. Wouldn't the Secretary of State care to put a few sentences to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u163	When can profits be distributed or not? The balance in the legislative proposal has to do with how it is long-term financed and with what resources it is financed. So the question is exactly what you want a profit distribution to apply to. That is why it has been said about inpatient facilities, which have been long-termly financed by contributions, that they are not there. In the case of short-term facilities in the home situation that are extramural, we know many institutions that provide care from their own company. The municipality must then be able to consider whether or not it wants to buy care there. There are a lot of private institutions where that happens and we do not want to hinder the distribution of profits in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u164	Secretary of State, before you go any further, I'd like to hear from you how much time you think you need for your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr President, I hope to be able to conclude in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u166	I regret to have to disappoint you, because I really want you to complete the answer to the questions quickly. If you can't do that, I'm gonna have to interrupt you somewhere around 1:15 p.m. It would be nice if we could finish the first term for that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u167	I understand your appeal to the members of the Chamber, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u168	And to you, too!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the care office could also look at the front of the process when monitoring the accommodation. Yeah, you can. I believe that this can be dealt with in particular in the conscious choice interview, but also in the assessment of the care agreement and the care description, the care office can assume its responsibility. In response to Mr Van Dijk's question, I will raise it again in my consultation with the health offices. A test in advance to determine whether the quality is sufficient is indeed very important. Mr Van Dijk asked for a response to the amendment on the low care-gravity packages. I thought that we had already exchanged views in the debate that I am sympathetic to the idea of avoiding unnecessary relocations if a low level of VPT has already been agreed. I can therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. I'll get back to you when I'm given that. I think we have talked about the house adjustments to a sufficient extent. Mr Potters asked whether we had sufficient attention to the vpt, the full package at home. Can we take some more incentive measures for that? Mr Potters has a point, because the Long-Term Care Act introduced the modular package at home and the full package at home as new forms. These packages should be brought to the attention of all concerned, as they are reasonable new elements in the law. He does have a point when he says that not so many people realize that that possibility is in the Wlz. In general consultation I indicated that I would like to inform the Chamber for the summer about the full package at home and the modular package at home. The health offices are currently carrying out an evaluation for themselves, to see if they could give this point even more attention. I will therefore respond to Mr Potters' wish to pay attention to this. With pressure on the accelerator, I tried to deal with the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u170	Then there are a few amendments that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u171	And my question about the Youth Act! Is there a breach of medical professional secrecy in the case of under-supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u172	Apologies, Mrs. Keijzer is right. That does not mean that she is always right, but in this case she is really right. Does this bill regulate that medical professional secrecy no longer applies? No. I think it would be good to be very clear about that. Medical professional secrecy remains in place, even in cases of forced youth assistance. What makes it a bit difficult is that the rules and privacy of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act apply to medical treatment, but that the other youth aid is subject to similar provisions in the Youth Act. However, the answer to the question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u173	You also have a second term, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u174	I know, but I still have one more question. There will be a new article of law which states that, in so far as medical treatment is concerned, a situation in which medical professional secrecy applies, the paragraph in question does not apply, with the exception of paragraphs 7.3.11, fourth and fifth paragraphs. It states that third parties who have information must provide it in the event of undersupervision. Maybe I don't get it or my analysis doesn't add up, but what about it? The Secretary of State's just saying it's not, but he knows me by now. Then I want to know where it is, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u175	As I said earlier, it is a question of medical treatment in which the rules governing the file and the privacy of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act apply. The distribution between the Medical Treatment Agreement Act and Article 7 (3) of the Youth Act is governed by Article 7.3.1. This means that Article 7.3.1 is amended. That amendment is necessary in order to ensure that the functioning of the new Article 7.3.17 is not excluded for youth workers performing medical treatment. That is the essence of the change. I come now to the interpretation of the amendments. I have here the amendment to item No. Nine for me. That's about the vpt and the care packages. I have indicated that I am in favour of the amendment. I'd like to leave that judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Keijzer's amendment to item No. 10 is about the five-day period. I indicated in the debate that this five-day period was precisely intended to allow a smooth administrative transition between the domains, that parties needed some time to transfer files and that they were small amounts with a high administrative burden. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. On Mrs Keijzer's amendment to item No. We have also discussed 11 in the debate. I have indicated that, if the deadline of 13 weeks is exceeded, this will in no way relieve the health care office of the obligation of care. Even after the thirteen-week period, the healthcare office continues to have a duty to organise a suitable place in an institution and to continue to allow responsible care in the home care situation. That is why I reject the amendment. In Mr Van Dijk's amendment to item No. 13 The rights of insured persons to appropriate care shall be guaranteed. Actually, this is about whether you can arrange to keep the familiar faces. I would like to include Mr Potters' question. He asked whether this would allow for budgetary shifts. As far as I'm concerned, the answer is no. At the time of the indication there is a duty of care for the care office in accordance with the Long-Term Care Act. This arranges that when buying that care you can ensure as much as possible that those familiar faces remain intact. So it is not a shift in commitments and, in my view, it is not a shift with budgetary consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u176	In any case, I welcome that answer. Now, in the explanatory statement that we had in connection with the legislative proposal, it is stated that continuity of care should in principle be regulated during the transitional period and is part of this bill; as such, the legislative proposal should be interpreted. Now that the Van Dijk amendment does not involve a budgetary shift and actually describes exactly what is in the explanatory statement, I ask the Secretary of State where exactly the differences are. I honestly don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u177	I understand Mr Potters' question. I think there is a bit of a subtle distinction between the continuity of care and the continuity of care "by whom." I take it from the amendment that Mr Van Dijk says: of course continuity of care, but let us prevent it from being delivered by others while we can also arrange for it to be delivered by the same faces. Of course, there is the reservation that care remains responsible. After all, it would be possible for care demand to increase. Then you have to switch to other care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u178	In order to properly assess the scope of this amendment, I ask the following question. In fact, there is no big difference between this amendment and what is in the explanatory statement, but the Van Dijk amendment is a further specification of what we mean by 'giving care'. It goes a little further in that field, but there is no big difference in material.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u179	That's right. The Bergkamp amendment to point No. 14 is actually about that thirteen-week termjin again. I would not be in favour of extending that deadline, not even because it would reduce the pressure on the healthcare office unnecessarily. You just want that duty of care to be enforced. I have indicated that the expiry of that thirteen-week period without there being room should have no consequences for the clients. So I would not really be in favour of arranging for care agencies to have more time, as it were, to find a suitable place, which could also be a side effect of this amendment. That's why I wouldn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u180	After the expiry of the thirteen-week period, the debate on duty of care is discussed. Is that the only sanction for the care office to make sure it does its best to find a place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u181	This duty of care does not come after that thirteen-week period; this duty of care is already there at the time an indication has been given. The healthcare office should then check as soon as possible if there is a place available, of course in consultation with the client. Extending the time limit within which the healthcare office must try to deliver a performance is not going to help tighten up the duty of care. Moreover, this duty of care is monitored by the Dutch Healthcare Authority. Just as theoretically, the amendment could have the effect that the Healthcare Authority would only look at it as a structural care agency that exceeds 26 weeks, and I would prefer it to look at it after thirteen weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u182	I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg because the amendment was tabled by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u183	No, it's mine. It's 26 weeks. Then it's my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u184	Are you referring to the amendment to item No. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u185	These amendments are mixed up. I understand your hurry, Mr. Chairman. I'll put it briefly. That duty of care means that a place must be found within a reasonable distance. Mrs Leijten has just tried to clarify what "reasonable distance" is. There's no standard for that. Which means after 13 weeks, someone has to go to an institution he doesn't want to go to. In the end, there will be no sanction for the care office but for the insured person and his family.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u186	I thought we discussed this extensively in the debate. I have indicated that if there is no place available, there must be bridge care provided. We make this bridge care more comprehensive; after the 13 weeks it does not end, but there is proper operation towards the care office to make sure that there is a spot. That is why I am not in favour of the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u187	I think there's still a lot of uncertainty about the impact of those 13 weeks on the client. So I'm just making it a little yes/no question in the knowledge that the Secretary of State is about his own answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u188	For the sake of clarity, this is about the amendment to item No. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u189	Yes, but it is really about the problem raised in both Mrs Keijzer's amendment and Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. Do I understand correctly that inserting into this thirteen-week law is in no way a restriction on the right of clients and cannot in any way mean that a client is under pressure to accept a place after, for example, twelve weeks, when a much more appropriate place becomes available after fourteen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u190	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-24-tweedekamer-4.u191	This brings us to the end of the first term. At the beginning of the afternoon meeting, we will discuss the attacks in Brussels.
