ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister of Education, Culture and Science to questions asked in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to tell you what I'm gonna do. I would like to say a few general words to you. Then I will address a number of questions about finance, equality of opportunity, higher education, MBO and lifelong learning. Finally, I will deal with other questions about macro-efficiency, Attack on Uitval and various other issues. Education is about teaching knowledge, skills and skills. It's about learning a profession, but it's more than that. Education is about forming responsible citizenship. It's aimed at living together with everyone. With this I opened my reply when the Chamber and I were here for the first time in about this composition four years ago. I still support these words and can proudly say that we have made a great deal of progress in these areas. To the Chamber, and in particular to Mr Van Dijk, I say: new public management and efficiency thinking are no longer guiding principles in education, but equal opportunities and challenging education are, as Mr Duisenberg's wonderful example of the honour programme at his daughter's school shows. I know that programme, not only of my own daughter in secondary education, but also of the MBO and, above all, of higher education, which has been at the forefront of this programme for a long time. These are special talent programs in which everyone can participate. They're not meant for a small elite, they're meant for everyone. That's my mission. I have recently been fully committed to the emancipation of vocational education and the quality of higher education, with special attention to bildung and the quality of teacher training. We got into the MBO from a long way. The first file that ended up on my desk was the Amarantis file. That's still fresh in everyone's memory, I think. We have ensured that we can intervene today if institutions do not assume their responsibilities. We have an inspection that looks strictly where it needs to and stimulates where it can. Despite the negative sound I heard from Mr Duisenberg about the MBO, we have achieved many successes. We should be proud of our MBO. Delegations from all over the world are coming to us to see how they can implement our MBO system. We have students who are more satisfied, as the latest JOB monitor shows. We have students who are more challenged because we have shortened courses and introduced electives, including electives that support flow. We have stimulated excellent craftsmanship programs and we have students who remain inboard. We have introduced admission rights, and we have greatly reduced the number of early school leavers. Students receive better education, exam quality has improved and there is more regional cooperation between institutions. There is a better connection for students to the labour market. And students will have access to an I.V. card as of 1 January. Mr Mohandis said it: a long-cherished wish of many Mbo's. In higher education, I have worked hard for the quality of education, paying attention to bildung through the hundreds of millions from the study advance. This year we are seeing this momentum in the budget. Pre-investment by colleges and universities is also visible. I see this now in concrete terms in investments in staff. As a result of investments in quality agreements among others, the number of FTEs for teaching and direct educational support staff has increased by approx. 1,600. This is an increase of 5% compared to 2014. In HBO, the number of FTEs of teaching staff increased by approx. 900: an increase of 4.4%. In scientific education, the number of FTEs for scientific staff has increased by around 400 FTEs compared to 2014. That is an increase of 1.5%. In the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education and Research, I had already announced that more teachers could be hired. This enables more personal attention to be paid to each student. So we're showing that we're taking steps in that. In particular, first-generation students will benefit from this emancipation. I also mentioned in this strategic agenda that education research needs to be given greater recognition in the balance sheet, so that more room is created for student bildung. With the award of Comenius grants, we are taking an important step. With the introduction of the associate degree, the early registration date, the study choice check and the extra millions we have allocated for guidance on the transition from MBO to HBO, I have every confidence that our higher education is and will remain accessible. The latest provisional inflow rates also confirm this. The influx into HBO has increased by 4.5% and in the wo by 8%. Comments were also made on the effects of the study advance. To be honest, I do not understand why Mr Rog's record is stuck with last year's old figures. Perhaps inefficient income support for the CDA is more important than good education for all. That's what I'm aiming for. Apart from being accessible, our higher education is of high quality. We see positive data on student satisfaction, teacher quality and more contact hours. Through honours programmes, associate degrees, switching programs and flex study, the joint proposal of VVD and PvdA, more customization is possible. The accreditation burden has been reduced. So there is more room for the teacher's ownership. The commitment to the quality of teacher training has paid off. The accreditations have gone well in the past year, especially with the pabos. That's a big compliment to the pabos. The additional admission requirements for the pabo introduced last year also seem to improve the quality of the students. At the same time, it draws attention to the importance of a variety of influxes. I therefore welcome Mr Rog's idea of a teachnasium. I think that is a very interesting initiative. It is one of the ways to promote quality and diversity on the pabo. I am a little more reluctant about the idea of immediately starting profiles for the young and the older children, but I do think we can offer more variation in teacher training. This is also done through internships. Teacher training also pays more attention in their curriculum to topics such as science and technology, culture and bildung. Mr Duisenberg also referred to this in his speech. Furthermore, we see a lot of attention being paid to the practical experience of students in teacher training and to the guidance of starting teachers. Finally, what I want to mention in this overview is that students have gained more influence both in MBO and in higher education. Mr Van Dijk referred to the plans of the University of Amsterdam and the referendum there. I have taken note of this with interest. I've seen them develop different models there. I should also recall Mr Van Dijk's own-initiative paper which we discussed last December. I therefore very much welcome the fact that students, lecturers and the UvA board together are taking part in the follow-up process. A high turnout is of the utmost importance, as this creates support within the academic community. The promotion of the referendum must therefore come from the community itself. But I hope for a high turnout and a good dialogue within the university, so that all the voices will be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u3	Let me come back to the devastating effects of the loan system. The Minister says: Mr Rog is based on the figures for the first year of implementation. I remind the Minister of two things. When we dealt with the bill here, we agreed that the estimate was that 2,700 students would refrain from studying in higher education. Terrible, but that's it. It turned out to be 9,000 in practice, only in HBO. Last year at this time, the decline in HBO seemed to be 6.8%, but this decline turned out to be 9% in the final figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u4	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u5	And now the Minister is going to tell me that on the basis of provisional figures I have to do a jubilee dance, because the influx into HBO is only 4,500 less than before the loan system. I don't understand that, and I think it's inconsistent. I asked for a debate at this time last year. That was not granted because the Minister said they were not final figures. The actual final figures were much more serious than the provisional figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u6	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u7	I want to make this point...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u8	Yeah, but it's a really long point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yes, but I'm being addressed by the Minister and I want a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u10	We have discussed the effects of the study advance before, and I said that we can not only look at that first year, because then you will get the so-called bow wave effect. This is not my term, but it is a term from research of those who have not taken an intermediate year and have started studying quickly and those who are now taking an intermediate year. In the debate we have always said that we will see a dip first. The question is how long that dip stays. It has also been established by a majority in this Chamber that we will not see the real structural effects for a number of years. I am also saying that these are provisional figures, but I am encouraged that they are showing a sharp increase again. We'll take stock at the monitor. It'll be for the Chamber next spring. Then we can re-examine the state of play. The real balance can only be achieved after a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u11	So the Minister acknowledges that we thought the influx would be 2,700 less, but that it was 9,000. The preliminary inflow was expected to be 6.8% less, but the actual result was much more negative. The Minister therefore has no right to rejoice here that only 4,500 young people have gone to study less than for the loan system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Rog is not precise. The Centraal Planbureau's assessment was that the structural effect would be 2,700. We knew last year was about a completely different effect. That is the transitional effect, in the first year of implementation. You can't put that number 2,700 there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u13	I would like to congratulate the Minister on that cheerful story in her introduction to the MBO, but I read a story this morning in De Telegraaf about a rock in the north of the country, where there is harassment and arguing teachers, and so on. The Minister says that the exam structure has been strengthened, but much worse is that I read stories there of people who do not have to take an exam at all and still get a diploma. I hear stories about whether English is an exam or not. There are students who only have to write down their names and then get the guarantee that they will receive a sufficient degree. I am very shocked and I hope the Minister too, because I know these stories from six years ago. It was like that back then. I can't reconcile that with the story about the enhanced exam structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u14	Maybe the difference is that you have a story about an incident. I don't know that, by the way. I understand the source is The Telegraph. If you give it to me, I'll see what caused it. I base myself on data on the general picture, including the inspection. Then we see that the exam structure within the MBO has progressed with great leaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u15	We've worked very hard on that. I sincerely hope the Minister is right. I'll send her the article. However, I would like the assurance that the inspection has looked at the fact that this is indeed an incident and that it is not a general line, otherwise we will also have a problem with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u16	I would agree entirely with Mr Beertema if there was a structural effect. All the information I have had in recent times points to the contrary, and I base myself on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u17	The Minister's introduction was a welcome story about the great results she has achieved. Not a word about the dark cloud hanging over Dutch education, about the growing division or the gap that the inspection has detected. I assume that the Minister will discuss this in detail later. But now comes the good news: the Minister embraces the referendum organised by the University of Amsterdam. I love that. I think it's a good result of the protests at the Virgin House at the time. I think we should all embrace that. We give the students and the staff the choice to choose their own governance model. Is the Minister prepared to go there with me to promote that referendum? Of course, we give everyone the freedom to vote for what they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u18	I'm always willing to promote it, but in the form in which I do it, I want the university community of the UvA to be leading. When the UvA organises a debate and invites Mr Van Dijk and me to talk about the pros and cons of different models, I will be happy to discuss that. Maybe she'd like to invite others too. I think the university community should take the initiative. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u19	This is noted. I love this. I would like to thank the Minister very much. I would remind everyone that this referendum will begin on 23 November. I'm sure we'll find a good day when we can have a good conversation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u20	Then that's settled, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u21	It is good that the Minister once again points out the beneficial effect of the beautiful study advance. My question is about something else. The Minister said how much the formation has increased in a number of sectors. How many of these FTEs relate to teachers? Is there anything to be said about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u22	This is about teachers. If I'm right, all the data actually relate to teaching staff. We are talking about scientific staff only, because education and research often go hand in hand in the wo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u23	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u24	I would also like to say to Mr Van Dijk that I consider equality of opportunity to be so important that I have devoted a very special subject to it. However, he still has to wait, because I want to answer the questions about finances first. The SP, D66 and GroenLinks asked how much this cabinet now invests in education and how it was presented in the budget. Let us be clear that, on balance, education has been stepped up since the accession of this cabinet. That is what we see in the budget. It is not cutting back, it is stepping up, also compared to last year's budget. This is confirmed in the statements in the budget. It has also been explained in the answers to the written questions. This is thanks to intensifications from the National Education Agreement, the study advance, the 2014 budget agreements and the amount of 200 million for political priorities added to this budget. This is reflected in the increased average expenditure per pupil and student. It is confirmed in the OECD report on Education at a glance, as Mr Duisenberg pointed out in his speech. When we look specifically at 2017, we see a number of measures that were necessary for the state-wide exchange rate issue and measures to bring the OCW budget to a close. These can be found in the budget. First of all, I would like to mention the abolition of training deductions and the removal of monuments. Part of this revenue is then used to set up new expenditure schemes. Secondly, I would like to mention the generic lump sum and the subsidy discount over the whole budget. It has been softened by the cabinet with 133 million out of 200 million for political priorities. This set of tasks shall be completed by sector in such a way as to reduce the amount of funding at least or not. Thirdly, there is also an estimate adjustment for 2017. It's there every year. For 2017, an estimate adjustment of 150 million has been made. Next year it will be filled in with windfalls and under-exhaustment. That is what the Prime Minister also said in the General Political Reviews. This will prevent the introduction of a possible unnecessary additional lump sum reduction in this budget. In the budget statements and in the answer to the written questions, all pluses and minuses are always displayed transparently. The same applies to the specific measures included in this budget. During last week's legislative consultation, I promised the standing committee that I would look into whether these statements could be included in the budget in the future. I understand that the statements in the budget are rather difficult to read, because there are a lot of numbers. Maybe we can make that clearer. Let's take a look at that. I would like to stress once again that all the measures have a maximum benefit in terms of education. This is in line with the government policy and with the widely supported Pechtold motion submitted during the General Political Reviews. I also say to Mr Van Meenen that with this motion D66 has not reversed any cuts. It is as the Prime Minister said in the General Political Reviews: a motion should be seen as an encouragement, in line with government policy. That is to say, the revision of estimates will be implemented carefully next spring. GroenLinks asked what the impact would be on the budget of OCW, if the treatment of the Tax Plan shows that the abolition of the monument deduction and the training deduction is not going to happen. On the substantive aspects of the training deduction, I will be discussing lifelong learning, but I would like to inform the Chamber that if the reduction in these tax arrangements does not go ahead, a figure of 131 million on the OCW budget will have to be covered in a structural manner. There were many reasons for doing something with the monument deduction and the education deduction. They were in the Tax Administration, in the use of the scheme itself and in the fact that they are little targeted, but it was also an important part to spare the education budget and education itself at OCW. If that doesn't happen, I don't see any other option but a lump sum discount. So much for finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u25	I would just like to comment on the adjustment of estimates. The budget states quite literally that the estimate adjustment amounts to 150 million and is task-making. I would like to have a debate, a real debate in The Hague, on whether or not this is a cut in the budget. But I think schools have experienced it that way. The Pechtold motion will ensure that this does not happen. But now I want to talk about the coverage in due course. Why doesn't the school charge this estimate adjustment? The Minister says this is because of the windfalls and underexhaustment. My question is then: what is the current estimate of the amount involved? Can the Chamber also use this as cover, for example for the interesting ideas that have been put forward here in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u26	No, you can't. I don't know those amounts either. The cabinet does not want to make unnecessary cuts in education in any way. We expect an estimate adjustment next year, as is often the case. There has been a greater incidence of windfalls and under-exhaustment, because numbers of students and pupils are different from those estimated. That could be large amounts, but we don't know that yet. We'll know that in the spring. That is why it is an estimate adjustment to our budget. I can't move it away, but I expect that in spring, with all the pluses and minuses, windfalls and underexhaustment, we can prevent it. This will prevent an extra lump sum discount that will not be necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u27	Then the motion has certainly prevented that reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u28	No, the motion only indicates that the decision on the Spring Note must be made without prejudice to education if we do not get the 150 million within the pluses and minuses, the windfalls and underexhaustibility. However, we expect this to be the case. The cabinet is doing everything it can to avoid austerity in all possible ways and to avoid education; hence also this estimate adjustment. That is why the Prime Minister has also said that he considers the Pechtold motion to be in line with cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u29	Well, Minister, the Prime Minister also said that there is work to be done for the Minister of Finance. I don't know why that should be the case. But I will continue with the Minister's expectation that this could be removed with the 150 million in windfalls. That expectation must be based on something. Are there any numbers available? Or is it a matter of: we hope that things are going well, and if not, then the next cabinet only has a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u30	This is based on expectations of the data we have seen in recent years. There are often large numbers of windfalls and cases of underexhaustment. We assume that this will also be the case next year, but I cannot give you 100% certainty as to exactly what amount it will be. I come to the next block: equality of opportunity. Over the past four years, I have worked hard on quality and accessibility. Education is always facing new challenges. Think of the attacks in Paris and Brussels and the growing social tensions. Think also of what is happening in Turkey and how that has its impact in the Netherlands. Think of the changes in the cities. Think about the pressure of parents on education. Education is becoming increasingly important for someone's future. As a result, the pressure on education is increasing. I have therefore long been calling for attention to be paid to social inequality and separate worlds. One example is my response to the report "2 worlds, 2 realities" by Margalith Kleijwegt. In my order, she described how sensitive social issues are handled in schools. Several MPs, including Mr Beertema and Mr Van Dijk, are concerned about segregation. I share their concerns, but I strongly disagree that the leaders of Education would not want to take that segregation seriously. Think of the right of admission in the MBO that we have recently introduced. That is a very important way to give everyone access, and thus also to prevent segregation. Think of the Equal Opportunities Alliance, which we presented last Monday. I'll be right back to talk about that. As Mr Bishop said in response to Mr Van Dijk, education is not the source of segregation, but segregation does enter the schools. Yeah, all the social problems are coming into the schools. Education certainly has an important function in terms of inequality to be a driving force, to combat this inequality and to prevent it as much as possible. Last year I warned in Trouw in the budget, I quote, 'that the lifting machine that has been in education for a very long time is under threat'. We discussed this in detail during this budget debate. In the debate in the Chamber on the state of education, I indicated that unequal opportunities are a multifaceted social problem. During the recent hearing in this Chamber, Iliass El Hadioui said it strikingly: where things really go wrong, when you first tell young people that everyone has equal opportunities, they really start to believe in it, but then they experience that they do not. It is a task for education to admit students, but also not to let them fall. Allowing them is one thing, but making them reach the finish line is a very different and more complex task. It also means that this does not end in education. If we succeed in giving every young person a chance in education, that is not enough. Young people also need opportunities in their career orientation and in the search for an internship, job or full-time place in society. So education cannot solve inequality on its own. But concluding that this is an autonomous development that we cannot do anything about is far too easy. I agree with Mr Van Dijk: we have to deal with it together. Education is a driving force. I certainly do not agree with him when he says that the education or policy of this cabinet has caused the unequal opportunities. In my opinion, Mr Grashoff said it well: inequality of opportunity is not new, it has developed for years. This does not alter the fact that I feel a great responsibility to do everything in my power to combat it. I take the sounds seriously and I keep a firm finger on the wrist at transitions. The Secretary of State sent the Chamber a letter yesterday about the po-end test. I myself monitor the transition and make concrete proposals to improve the transition between MBO and HBO. However, I would like to point out to Mr Van Dijk that many plans from the SP election programme and from the pamphlet he presented yesterday will not directly benefit equality of opportunity. We know that abolishing the po-end test is harmful, especially to the group of students who do not get it from home. The use of two enrolment lists in secondary education, one for pupils and one for pupils without delay, also facilitates stigmatisation. The abolition of language and math tests in the MBO would be disastrous for those who want to pass on to HBO. They may be admitted there, but they will also fail immediately. Apart from that, I do not think that this does justice to the importance of profession and society. I am not even sorry to say that I have to say about the cuts in the SP's previous election programme of over 800 million. I'm gonna say it again: over 800 million. In our letter, the Secretary of State and I present three lines of action for equality of opportunity. We will invest a total of EUR 87 million over the next three years. I am not saying that with these amounts we will solve the inequality in opportunities, because more is needed for that. This also requires the nearly 35 billion we have to spend in education. This is a crucial task for a public education system. We also need the people around education, as I just said. The MPs were able to read in the letter what we're going to do. First of all, these are flexible transitions in education: links between levels of education, the right to move through secondary education, a better flow through MBO and HBO and a more accessible HBO. Mr Rog mentioned the switching programmes from vmbo to mbo for 3,000 to 5,000 pupils too little ambitious. I do not think that is right, although I would also like to be ambitious. It is a new initiative and it concerns a substantial number of pupils. We must now consider whether this really is the answer to the problem. After all, we all know from experience that reality is sometimes uncomfortable. We can sometimes, with the best of intentions, come up with a solution for something and then see that the effect is very different from what we expected. We are going to develop and test this initiative before we decide on a broader roll-out. The results shall be evaluated. We are going to follow all the initiatives we take in the perspective of equal opportunities so that we can decide in two years' time whether the programmes can be continued and whether more is needed. In this context, the PvdA, VVD and D66 asked for minimum standards for study information. We both consider the LOB to be extremely important, precisely to support young people in transitions. We recently sent the Chamber a plan of action on this subject, which I am sure we will be discussing. I believe that there are already minimum standards in this respect. Every student has the right to LOB and study guidance. All prospective students can go to study choice123.nl and are entitled to a study choice check. I would add that I too consider it essential that the student chooser has personal contact with prospective students and fellow students. Just sending a form digitally to be filled out and signed, I don't find the way. The question is, how are we supposed to do it? I am reluctant to propose one mandatory solution for this. Institutions are no longer creative and they no longer choose the solution that suits a particular training. They're going to send a standard form, and I don't want that. Mr Bruins asked for attention to be given to sufficient opportunities for stackers in higher education. Here's what I'm saying. Institutions have the legal mandate to enable a good flow for students who want to follow a wo-master with an Hbo-bachelor in their pocket. I expect institutions to support those students who need it. Even in the case of the flow from wo-bachelor to wo-master, such support should be provided whenever necessary. Institutions will only be allowed to apply for legal tuition for a switching program from 2017-2018. This is also part of the decisions we have made within the Higher Education Act. This is an important step towards making it more attractive for students to switch from HBO to wo. We are currently conducting research by ResearchNet into the supply of switching programs. That will be done before the end of the year. Then, in consultation with the Association of University Schools, the VSNU (University of Universities), the ISO (Interurban Student Consultation) and the LSVb (National Student Union), I will look for a tailor-made solution for the period 2017-2018. Funding for the tailor-made solution must be found within the current budgetary frameworks. So we need to think carefully about what we are doing so that we do not spend unnecessary money in bureaucratic procedures. That was the first part of the equal opportunities plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u31	Compliments to the Minister for her in-depth study of the SP-nota Education as an emancipation motor. I advise everyone to do the same; look at www.sp.nl. I note that the Minister, like Mr Van Meenen yesterday, is referring to an old SP election programme, in which we wanted to cut 800 million on bureaucracy and management, unlike the government, which cuts 1 billion on students. It is up to the electorate to make a choice. The minister says that segregation does not come from education, but from society into schools. That's only partially true. Of course, society has a role in this, but the Minister cannot deny that our education system also plays a role in segregation. I pointed that out. Orthodox schools, Islamic schools and Jewish schools, for example, are schools that have a door policy. That is precisely why the Party of the Minister, the PvdA, has made a bill for an acceptance obligation, together with the SP and other parties. Does the Minister recognise that schools, especially those Orthodox schools, are also deliberately segregating and would she like to participate in the acceptance obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u32	Freedom of education is a great asset in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State will discuss this in greater detail for primary and secondary education. From international studies you can see that the freedom of education, with a great responsibility for schools, combined with an inspection that looks from above, is a great asset. I see, at least in the sectors for which I am responsible, that much of what was ever born out of denomination is no longer important. For example, look at the Albeda College and Zadkine, about which Mr Beertema spoke. One was once public and the other Christian, but that distinction has completely disappeared; recently one technical college has been formed there. I like that very much. That there is also a Hoornbeeck College with different views, I think, because I think we should also leave a little room for minorities in the Netherlands; let me put it this way. We shouldn't take everyone's weight. What's important is that education is good. We've had that discussion before. Denomination should never be an excuse to be non-transparent or to hide behind in order not to get the quality of education to the highest level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u33	I think that's an honest answer. The Minister says she wants to keep the system as it is, which means that we maintain schools with an exclusive admission policy. I am thinking not only of Orthodox-Christian schools such as the Hoornbeeck College, I have been there; it is a school of very good quality, but it is only intended for Christian children, but also for other schools. Also Islamic schools are de facto exclusively for Islamists and Jewish schools de facto exclusively for Jews. The Minister thus acknowledges that segregation is a consequence of our education system. I think it's fair for her to say that. However, I do not agree with that and neither does the Labour Party, which says that all schools should open their doors to all pupils. The House of Representatives will therefore take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u34	Where that's useful, where you want to solve a problem, for example, you have to take care of it. For the MBO we arrange this through the admission right, because we see that students there are wrongly refused. So that's the problem you have to solve. However, you have to ask yourself what problem you want to solve now. I'm sure the Secretary of State will discuss that later. The Chamber knows he's in the process of drafting a bill to adapt Article 23 to this time of year. Maybe I can use this moment to indicate that 2017 is indeed a special year. That is what I say to Mr Bruins, who asked us to celebrate together. Yes, then remember that we have had freedom of education for almost 100 years under Article 23 of the Constitution. This freedom has brought much to Dutch education: a diverse education system with high quality. He can assume that we will not let that festive moment pass. We will organise a scientific symposium in the spring. In addition, the National Education Museum in Dordrecht will provide information on the historical background of special education. I was allowed to open that museum. It's a nice museum. It says a lot about historical ties and special education. But fortunately, the museum also goes much further. For example, it says something about the democratisation wave of the 60s and 70s, about new challenges around diversity and segregation in cities. I would also like to have this discussion in the spring. I do not want to close my eyes, I say to Mr Van Dijk, who I no longer see. Today's problems are not hidden behind the idea of freedom of education. Let's see where the problems are and find the solutions to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u35	I hear the Minister making a connection between the right of admission in the MBO and segregation. That right of admission would prevent segregation. I don't understand the connection. I can only describe that as follows. All kinds of teachers who do that intake would be guided by the wrong motives not to allow students to enter training courses. I'll fight that. Of course it isn't. But what is the Minister's statement in jip-and-janneketal? What on earth does reducing segregation have to do with the right of admission in MBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u36	I referred to a comment by Mr Van Dijk, who said he wanted a right of admission. Then I said that we have just introduced a right of admission into the MBO with each other to avoid institutions being able to say that they do not want certain students. They may well be students who do not present themselves as usual as the school expects or who may, for whatever reason, need some extra attention. I'd like to avoid that. This will solve a problem that we recognize. I do not see that in Mr Van Dijk's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u37	It is a right of admission to very specific training courses where teams of teachers make a very professional assessment of students. Those who say, "You can't do it, for you're not as fit for it as you are; that's not gonna work." This is happening on very ethical grounds. That's happening very honestly. Does the Minister recognise that there is a perverse incentive in it, which ultimately means that students are admitted and they just don't make it? That happened at the school in Groningen that I just mentioned. There they were again hand-picked so that those students are qualified again. That level, which we fought so hard for to fix, is still heating back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u38	No, certainly the MBO has a very big mission to let everyone in: the very talented students, but also the students from the region who are having a hard time and students who have difficult learning or behavioral problems. I'm glad that happens. The MBO is perhaps the most diverse type of education we have. That's the beauty of the mbo. It has a very important task in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u39	The Minister's speech is now taking so long that I want to interrupt on two different issues. I'll start with the flow from the MBO to the HBO. Does the Minister agree with me that there is a real bottleneck here? Now, of course, Mr Rog is going to shout: that horrible loan system! If he, like me, has looked closely at the figures, he will see that this has been going on for years in a steady downward line. The flow from the MBO to the HBO is getting worse. This is not because of a loan system, but because of all kinds of reasons. Could the Minister indicate how she really wants to break that trend? I do not yet see that in policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u40	I see there's a big problem there. As I said earlier, this problem does not only arise in the case of admission to HBO, but also in the case of the drop-out after that. At a school like the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, but you can also see it at other colleges in the Randstad University of Applied Sciences, especially immigrant boys are a lot out there. I think that's a social tragedy. We are trying to reverse this trend in different ways. If young people want to make the switch to HBO, we are preparing them for that switch much earlier in the MBO. This starts with better career orientation and guidance. That's what the letter says. Not only do we indicate which studies they can do, but we also give information about what learning in HBO means. That's what it starts with. It starts with the choices. With a choice to prepare for the HBO we also take an important step. The matching, early enrollment, trial studies and a day's walk with students are all ways to teach students that. Where things still go wrong is actually in the guidance at the HBO. I have discussed this intensively with MBO and HBO schools in recent times. How can we ensure that students are supervised much better and really intensively? I refer to the equal opportunities plan. It includes resources for the flow of MBO to HBO. What is new is that we are not only looking at this with the schools, but that an important part of it is now going to be filled out by students. When you talk to students, they know damn well where the shoe is. I have seen some good ideas and find that very promising. Just as we do before the transition from VMBO to MBO, which I was just talking about to Mr Rog, we are also going to see how that works for the transition from MBO to HBO. After two years, we're gonna take stock of the situation. Then we will see whether this is suitable for enlargement, so whether it is interesting enough and working well enough to go ahead with it and perhaps extend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u41	Several initiatives are being taken to address this declining flow from MBO to HBO. I have to say that I have not yet seen any effect on the figures. However, it may still be a little early. However, I must also note that the Minister has repeatedly confused two discussions. There's a discussion about the influx and there's a discussion about the outflux. These are fundamentally different discussions. I note that the Minister continues to support the fact that there are influx requirements at HBO in all kinds of places that go beyond having a valid MBO diploma. I'll mention the pabo in particular. The influx of the number of students at the pabo is halved. That's a big problem. And it's also helped segregation. The pabos are getting whiter. A pabodoctor who I know well said: we are gradually getting back from an education that had a very nice mix of backgrounds, the school for girls from the white suburbia. Does the Minister agree with me that we should seek other solutions to the quality of the pabo than maintaining the inflow requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u42	The influx at the pabo is a very important point for me. I have just said to Mr Rog that the solution should not be sought in reducing the quality requirements. We all make high demands on our teachers. We make high demands on the primary school teacher to whom we entrust our children. That's a mega-responsible position. However, I acknowledge that it is very bad and worrying that the more diverse influx from the MBO is therefore decreasing. The equal opportunities letter contains additional measures for this, with a budget of 2.5 million. I spent a lot of time with the MBO and HBO schools. The problem arises mainly in the big cities. We are going to mentor students in the MBO much earlier. We don't do that in the last six months, then it might be interesting to do some choices, but we've been doing that two years before so that they can make up for that change. So I want to do everything, but not by lowering the quality standards. The same goes for the HBO. I want to promote the influx. I also want students to stay. As far as I am concerned, these are not two discussions. Influxes and then well through your studies are two parts of the same thing, namely study success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u43	I'm glad the Minister doesn't intend to lower the pabo's demands. I'm really happy about that, because that's good. At the same time, she says: we are going to start with the teachnasium. There are initiatives for that, for the Havo. That's good. Should such an approach not also apply to the MBO? There are many students who ultimately have the ambition to go to the pabo, but now they don't always save it and even often they don't make it. Should we not take the initiative for them in the same way and invest in links between MBO and pabo?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u44	In fact, that is the core of the proposals I make in the equal opportunities letter. Those are aimed at the MBO-trainings.I mention, for example, the class assistants...................................................................................................................................................................................... It should also be open to other students, but you focus on the group you expect to find the best ways to shape the flow. Eventually, that looks like a teachnasium. We should make up another word for that, but the core is actually exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mr Grashoff, do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u46	I just said that I have two interruptions on two different subjects. I do not think you have forbidden me to do so. I would find that strange, too, because there have been a lot of issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u47	We're trying to do it a little organized, but fine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u48	I try to work on that in this way, but it is not entirely easy for me. The minister also spoke about Hoornbeeck College. We should leave room for that. In an interruption debate in the first term, I tried to make it clear that there are schools. I mentioned the Hoorbeeck College as an example, which does give a very broad explanation of Article 23 of the Constitution, which no longer affects the establishment of schools at all, but very hard to refuse pupils. Not only because they would not respect the foundation or whatever, but simply because they are not compassionate and confessing members of one specific group within our religions in the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with me that the interpretation of Article 23 goes far too far and that we should limit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u49	It is not my type of school, but there appears to be a need for such a school, because the Hoornbeeck College has a substantial number of students. The quality is good; I cannot comment on that. It is among the best performing rocks in the Netherlands. That fits in with the space provided by Article 23. It would be very bad if there were no opportunities for students to go to other roc's or MBO schools. Fortunately there are plenty of possibilities, so no one has to feel obliged to go to Hoornbeeck College in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u50	There are cases where pupils have simply been refused. They would have liked to study there, but they were refused. Not because they would not respect the foundation, but because they do not belong to the right church society. The Minister says this fits within the scope of Article 23. I can read it, read it again and read it upside down, but Article 23 of our Constitution does not say that you can refuse pupils. It says you have the right to set up schools. Would the Minister care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u51	That's what it says, but you can ask students to endorse the foundation. If they do, you can't refuse them. I don't know any examples of that. If Mr Grashoff has it, I am happy to hear it and I am going to go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u52	Many points have been discussed in this block. The Minister addressed the issue of matching and LOB and the plan we launched with VVD, CDA and student organisations for the summer. The Minister too easily ignored the fact that there were no national standards. They're already here. In practice, there are gems of examples at universities. There are HBO settings that somehow don't do it quite as it should. I wouldn't say too easy: there's a national standard, so it's gonna be okay. If we want to combat the breakdown even more effectively, we will have to do much more to achieve real matching for students, so a conversation. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u53	Yes, but I also said: the minimum standard that exists is that the student is entitled to career orientation and guidance. We have recently sent a letter to the Chamber on major steps to improve it. Students have the right to study guidance. I recognise that there are still a lot of training courses where it can be done better, but I do not want to impose these training courses on them and do not prescribe exactly how to do that. Fashion training, for example, requires something quite different from a choice of course at law school or in technical physics. It should be possible to deliver customization. The norm is that there must be study-choice guidance. This can be done with pilot studies or with a conversation. I also think it is undesirable that this should only be done by completing a form, but I do not want to kill the creativity I also see by imposing very detailed rules on everyone involved in the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u54	I can go a long way with that. The most important thing is that "creativity and space" should not mean that there is no offer, that there are no serious matching conversations for an MBO who goes to higher vocational education. That MBO needs to know what the next step is, what it means, what it means to study, what the choice of that training is. I do not yet share the picture that much is already being done. I doubt it's what it's supposed to be by now, that we're already where we need to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u55	There's always room for improvement. If we were where we want to be by now, we wouldn't have sent the Chamber such a comprehensive letter on career orientation and guidance. If we were already where we want to be, then we weren't still in conversation with student organisations and with colleges and universities about what's still to be improved. So once, this is really a process in which we have to make a step-by-step improvement, but one must feel that one is responsible for oneself, that one owns the way one wants to do it. I want to stimulate that with room for customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u56	I would like to support Mr Mohandis. I think that the image of the Minister is a result of a paper reality. In reality, the study choice check programme currently involves many universities and colleges, i.e. in higher education, but also in MBO institutions, that you fill out a questionnaire online, and that's it. There are also examples, Mr Mohandis mentioned them as pearls where they do much more and where you can see that that effect has been, that the fall has gone down very hard. Now students and students are turning themselves in: we want it to get better everywhere and we want it to go faster. They are entitled to a study check, but they themselves state that the group of outliers, which the Minister also likes to talk about and which we are all concerned about, often does not use that right. Those students and students even say, "Make it a duty." So I'm gonna ask the Minister again to take a serious look at that. We ask her to go into consultation with these organisations to make a move here, and to leave the commitment behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u57	I do. It's not like I have my data from a paper reality. For example, I have been working with ISO at institutions to see exactly how things are going there. I have seen gems there, indeed, but I have also seen that it is very labour-intensive. I have seen that many colleges and universities try to follow which interventions are successful and which are not. That is rather complicated, because it is not that it is by definition counterproductive when there is a conversation everywhere. So once again, I agree that it can be done better, but an education with very large numbers of students, such as general economy or law, will also have to organize this in a different way from a very small specialized education. That is no excuse to do everything digitally or in writing. For example, you can also work with pilot studies there. At a number of universities, they do that in psychology. That works very well. There are test exams as well. So that's what I'm stimulanting. So I am really on Mr Duisenberg's side. I hope to be able to work with the Chamber, with the student associations and with the institutions. How can it be better? However, I would like to do so in such a way that we also leave room for customization. That starts with improving the LOB. I believe that we will soon be discussing this in detail in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u58	Even if you set minimum standards, there is still room for customization. The Minister can now, on the basis of her observations, say: I have seen it, there are poles, give them room to do things. But students, as well as deans, say that there is a real need to make better agreements at national level. We need this support from the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u59	I'd be happy to give them that support. That's why I have a lot of contact with deans. If there's anything I can do, I'll go to their conferences, talk to them and say what we expect of them. I am also doing this in the context of the study advances. They are also extremely important when it comes to providing information on all other aspects of study. So I say once again that I agree with Mr Duisenberg that we can do even better and that we should work on that. Each student is indeed entitled to a study choice information and good guidance in the choice of study. We have these standards. We have to give hands and feet to that. I just don't think it's gonna work if I'm going to lay that down very precisely in a law or regulation, so more than we already have. In my opinion, we should do this together, in a stimulating environment and with good examples that we can show. We must do this together with students and institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u60	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u61	I was still at equal opportunities, and I was at the second part of our letter. I have already discussed the transition in education. The second part is investing in stimulating education in the classroom. That's what we do with investments in teachers and teacher training. I have said all that I need to say. We are also busy making access to broad bridge classes. That's what the Secretary of State is going to say. We also support MBO training with many stackers. That's what we do with $4 million. Contrary to what Mr Van Meenen claimed, I am therefore doing something about the cascade cost. In fact, we have found that it would have undesirable effects if we were to continue to tackle cascade costs even further, even in the case of the redistribution of funds between institutions. We now have an arrangement that will compensate institutions that have many stackers and thus face major financial problems. The butcher's school is a good example. Finally, I say that, in this context, we are going to look at equal opportunities in schools with the inspection. We will look into how the inspection can also take this into account in monitoring. The third theme in the letter is: social networks at school and in society. This is what we focus on in programs, such as Tel along with Taal. Involvement of parents also plays a role in this. I also mention culture education and so on. In doing so, it is crucial that other parties participate, outside of education. I have seen a very good example of this at Lentiz LIFE College in Schiedam, an MBO institution that works intensively with local employers, libraries and municipalities, but also offers internships and jobs to bring young people into contact with culture or to make them do something for society. Mr Van Dijk spoke about our action plan on his note. He asked about our proposal that young people who are currently in higher education could be a good coach of young people who are still in MBO or vo. Mr Van Dijk asked: does this not lead to recruitment practices? Let me reassure him. These coaches have performed before. This is a proven effective tool because the coaches are role models that are close to the young people we're talking about. They are therefore students who know from a few highly-educated role models from home. The coaches can take them with them in this way when questions like what is going to be studied and what comes to look at, for example, learning at an HBO institution. I think that is a very nice initiative. I've also seen how that works in America at universities. I am very curious to see how that will develop. By the way, we also have good examples in the Netherlands. Think of a program like Mentors on South. Students from various schools receive weekly one-to-one guidance on homework, planning, developing self-confidence and career choice. And then the knife cuts both ways. On the one hand there is better guidance for the students and on the other there is a broadening of the horizon of the students of the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences. These kinds of plans fit very well in the Strategic Agenda The value of knowing. Thanks to the study advance, there are also a number of incentives for further development of this type of initiative. In this context, I have another question from Mr Rog about refugees. He asked if we wanted to work with the UAF for students in the MBO. With Mr Rog, I recognise the great importance of allowing refugees to continue on the MBO. I also recognise that they are entitled to good guidance and accessible education. The UAF is specialised in this field. It works for ho and mbo institutions and receives subsidies from my department. The experience of the UAF shows that refugees benefit from these specific pathways at MBO level. I am therefore very pleased that the UAF is encouraging these routes. I can only say that I appreciate that very much. We also discussed this with the MBO Council, UAF, Refugee Work Netherlands and other stakeholders to see what else we can do in this regard. I say this in the context of equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u62	I'd like to come back to the cascade payment. For the listeners at home: that means that an institution gets less and less money as a student spends longer on the MBO. Has the Minister not come to the conclusion that this is actually a very bad, almost perverse incentive? Because the Minister is doing everything in his power to counter the consequences of this funding. Now it is doing so again in the alliance and in its plan of opportunities it is going to pay extra for training where much is stacked. After all, they suffer from the cascade cost. Previously, it has also built in an incentive for study success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u63	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u64	When does the Minister come to the conclusion that we should simply stop paying the cascade?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u65	Cascade costume wasn't my idea, it was my predecessor's idea. I greatly weakened that cascade, from the perspective that I don't want to punish schools that have schools or students that take a little longer to get their degree. However, there was also a time when schools did very little to help students to graduate. At these schools they thought: we will get paid for them anyway and if they are here for seven or eight years, it is good. I have greatly reduced the cascade and thereby allowed students to spend longer on their education if necessary. Now, together with the schools, we are working on a tailor-made solution, whereby the resources end up in the schools experiencing the problems. The incentive is also maintained: if it is possible, schools must ensure that students are graduating and graduating and schools must support them, with additional resources such as schools, for example, dealing with second chances and with students who want to stack more. I think that's a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u66	This is an extremely curious reasoning. The minister is now going to help schools where much is stacked. The Minister should be wondering why these other training courses are not stacked. Perhaps that has something to do with the cascade cost. It's become unfavorable to stack. In the context of opportunities, therefore, the Minister should immediately stop the cascade payment and move on to, for example, a funding which ends at a certain point, after a number of years, but which is evenly distributed over the years. And, well, there's so much of her predecessor. If we all had to take that into account...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u67	But that's exactly what I've adjusted. I have greatly weakened the cascade scheme, so that it is no longer the case that an institution immediately notices when a student takes a year longer. I do think it is important that schools take social responsibility and that they do not regard all students as part of a business model. This is particularly true of the MBO. I am glad to see that many institutions take that responsibility. I also note that I have noticed, in consultation with MBO schools, that they do not want a total abolition of the cascade scheme, also because this in turn leads to all kinds of other undesirable financial effects. They think this is a good solution and I agree with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u69	I come to higher education, especially the technical universities. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Mr Duisenberg, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen have drawn attention to the influx into beta technology and the problems experienced by technical universities due to the growing numbers of students. Let me first say that I am proud of the fact that more and more students are opting for a beta-technical education and that we are getting closer and closer to the goal of four out of ten students entering a beta-technical training programme. So the Technics Pact is paying off, you might say. This is also because we have invested heavily in our technical universities in recent years. At the moment, because of the high inflow rates in beta technology, the technical universities indicate that they face major challenges, and I see that as well. They also indicate that it is not always possible for them to keep pace with growth in every training. As a result, quality of education is under pressure in some technical training courses. For me, quality of education really comes first. I do not therefore accept any reduction in the quality of education, not even in technical training. Unfortunately, there is no quick solution. The CDA Group and also the PVV Group suggested that fewer foreign students should be admitted, for fear that these students would occupy places, but then leave the Netherlands. I'd like to nuance that. Many of the international students come for a master's degree. There is no numerus fixus for that. Moreover, more and more international students opt for a career in the Netherlands. That too is important. In earlier research by the Central Planning Bureau, we have seen that it is also desirable to keep many international students. We could even make around 700 million, I believe. Technical universities say there's gonna be a lot of money involved. I see that they have a good lobby for that, but I am going too fast and too short. Technical universities are already receiving higher funding in the current distribution model and, on top of that, receive additional funding under the technology sector plan. For this they have received about 33 million euros in recent years. Other universities didn't get that. It is not just a question of money. The organisation of technical universities should be organised to provide a high quality of education to more students. That takes time, and they need to get used to it, because they need to adapt their organization to that. This is true of any growth in an organization. I can therefore imagine that setting up a numerus fixus may be temporarily necessary to control the growth of technical training and to maintain the quality of education at a high level, as was the case with mechanical engineering in Delft. As this training temporarily established a numerus fixus in the past, time could be taken to increase the capacity and the appointment and training of teachers. The numerus fixus could then be abolished in 2015. Let me focus on where we are now with the number of numerusfixus courses in technology. We have a huge amount of beta-technical training in the Netherlands. At the Bachelor's level alone, in the 2015-2016 academic year, we have 152 university courses and 222 HBO courses. Of these, 54 were at the technical universities. So a lot of beta-technical training is provided by general universities. Five of these courses were subject to a numerus fixus. In two of these five, a fixus was set up, but in both years it was far from achieved, namely in industrial design and in aerospace technology. In fact, there were three courses that had an effective fixus. Twice in clinical technology training and once in nutrition and health training; that's what we're talking about. These are training courses which are also related to health sectors. I think that's an interesting point. It cannot be ruled out that, for example, awarded medical students have gone here, but I am not sure. So we are talking about five training courses and three training courses. In the last two years, no more than 250 students have been rejected in the training of their first preference at the four technical universities, of which 146 in college year 2015-2016 and 91 in college year 2016-2017. So we are discussing 91 students this year in relation to the more than 20,000 students who have started a beta-technical training course at one of the four technical universities in the last year. Last year, therefore, there were 0.5% of students in engineering at all universities. This year we're talking about 4.5 promilles. In the coming year, 8 of the 58 beta-technical training courses of technical universities will use a numerus fixus. There are eight and therefore not twelve as I have heard Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog say. We also ran into the media. It is true that TU Eindhoven will investigate in the coming period whether a numerus fixus should be introduced for four courses in two years, i.e. in the academic year 2018-2019, in order to manage growth. That has not yet been decided. Perhaps they are still able to adapt the organization to increasing numbers of students; that is what I would especially recommend to them. So it is not at all certain that it is necessary there. If the numerus fixus is introduced, it may also be that it is not used at all, as we now see in two of these five courses. It is being introduced preventively from the point of view of 'to that number we can certainly guarantee the quality of education and beyond'. In my speeches at the opening of the academic year, I called for restraint with the use of a numerus fixus. So I'm not just gonna allow every numerus fixus. In some cases, setting up a fixus may be important, for example when there are insufficient internships or where the labour market gives rise to them. But in technical training I consider setting up a fixus given the extraordinary importance of more graduate technicians as an ultimatum remedium. I would also like to point out that the use of a fixus in some of the beta-technical training courses does not necessarily lead to the loss of technically interested students for technical purposes. After all, it is always possible to register with one of the 58 other beta-technical courses of technical universities. If you do not want to do so, you can still apply to one of 152 university courses in the technology that are in addition to the technical courses. Many of these students may not end up in the study they preferred. Future Planet Studies, for example, is a popular programme. There is another training that is very similar and has many similarities with it; that is the Beta-gamma programme. Maybe students can go there. It's just one example. Institutions are carefully working to control growth. As far as quality assurance is concerned, therefore, I do not want to prohibit the establishment of a fixus, as I say to Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog. I take the signals from the technical universities seriously, but a numerus fixus is not yet a basis for hundreds of millions. Universities also have their own responsibility. They have resources for that, too. Technical universities already receive more funding per student than any other student is allocated. If you add up the money for education and research, the average amount for a regular student is €20,000 and for the technical universities that is €30,000. They got 33 million from the sector plan. That has only gone to technical universities to make some improvements. Their financial position, their capital position is really not bad; it is good. So I say to these universities, on the basis of the numbers we are talking about, take responsibility. I also think that we should take a good look at what the problem is in general. A statement by a number of general universities has been received today; perhaps it has been read. They want it to be looked at more broadly, because they also have beta-technical training. There are also other training courses that deserve attention and which may have a less good lobby. Then let me stand up as the lobbyist for teacher training. There we have deficits in the long term, especially in technology. The teachers for technical training are crucial, when you talk about technology in the future. The inflow is limited and the costs are quite high. So let's take the pabos or the technical teacher training courses. Let's look at an institution like the Vrije Universiteit, which has many second chances of getting through their studies very well once they study. They study nominally and they have done HBO before, so you get less funding for that. The Vrije Universiteit has said to me that it would very much like to continue to give second-chance students the opportunity to obtain a diploma, but in the long term to get stuck with the funding. I believe that this is an essential issue. I would like to start a broad exploration into the effects of the current way of financing. Where and how can we improve it? In the short term, a complete review is not possible, but I am prepared to have an investigation, as I said in the legislative consultation with Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog. I am thinking here of drawing up a number of scenarios for changing the financing model, with advantages and disadvantages. That will have to be available for the cabinet formation. I'm looking at that broadly, not just for technical universities. Finally. I do not want to shift the problem to the employers, as I have been accused of. In the context of the Technics Pact, we are also working with employers. An important point of attention is the connection to the labour market. The transition to the labour market, which we have just had a discussion about, involves career orientation and guidance at universities. We now have enough people in technical training, but research shows that a total of some 40% still opts for a non-technical job in a non-technical sector. These are about 3,000 people who have graduated in recent times. If we can take a step there, it will lead to far more concrete results than those 91 students who cannot choose the course of their first preference. I say to employers: let's start with that, let's do it together, let's make sure that more graduate technicians end up in a technical job. This may require more effort than the provision of grants to the Technics Pact. It is very nice that this has happened, and I am very pleased about that, but we need to look more structuralally at the transition from training to the labour market, including in technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u70	Were you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u72	A very comprehensive response from the Minister to the distress call of the technical universities. I think the fact-checkers are working overtime, but that's not my question; we'll find out. To keep it simple, the policy to get more students to technology is successful. This means that more students in the Netherlands are going to an expensive education, because that training is more expensive, also driven from the Empire, because there is a higher funding. This whole movement within students' choice patterns can't go without extra money, can it? That's unthinkable, isn't it? If we were to allow all students in the Netherlands to study medicine, we would lose three times as much as we do now. We have to draw that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u73	There's also extra money going to technical universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u74	There is extra money going to the technical universities, but the minister makes much more of it than it is. The amount of 33 million is not a structural amount. They get that 33 million not every year, but once. The number of students also determines the funding, but does so for less than 40%. Most of the funding is stable. In other words, the increase in funding does not keep pace with the increase in student numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u75	Technical universities have a higher foothold because they have more expensive infrastructure. They asked for it themselves. In 2011, the institutions opted very explicitly for a system with a moving student-related part in combination with a fixed foot. I understand they want money, but I don't have any free money. If we give the technical universities money on top of everything they already get more than other universities, we say that this money can be paid off at the other universities. I do not believe that for the time being. I think that's too quick a conclusion. For example, the Vrije Universiteit also has a very good story. I've just spoken extensively about equal opportunities. I wouldn't want to take that money away from the Free University just to give it to the technical universities. I need an investigation to do that, and I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u76	The Minister is broadening the problem. She is talking about the Vrije Universiteit and university teacher training, but I think we can talk about the Vrije Universiteit very well when it comes to inequality of opportunity, and I think we can talk about university teacher training very well when we talk about the future shortage of teachers. Now we are talking about technical universities. The Minister states that there was a problem last year for 91 students. Then what are we talking about? Minister, pack your suitcase, go to those universities and arrange for that. If we're talking about 91 students, can't we solve it together for the next academic year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u77	That's what I'd say. I believe that this can be done, but it must be clear that I am not going to universities with a bag of millions of euros. Then I also appeal to their responsibility and to the means they have to ensure that no numerus fixus is established if it is not necessary and that, if it is possible, this happens temporarily. I understand what happened in Delft in mechanical engineering. That's what I heard. I can understand that. They said that they had to do so for one year to prepare for it. I think it is less chic to say that perhaps we are going to set up a numerus fixus and to avoid that we want more money now. I understand how much every university wants more money. I also think it is important that more students opt for technology. Once again, I am very pleased with that, but we must continue to see the problem in its proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u78	We have indeed requested an investigation. I'm okay with that. The Minister also says that she has it done, but now we want to solve the problem. I'd like to know a little more about the Minister. She talks about foreign students and I go on for a while: they often study in the Netherlands, they also earn money and 25% of them are still here after five years. So 75% is no longer here, so I conclude. Could that be a solution direction? Apparently, it's a couple of dozens or maybe hundreds of students. Could Dutch students for the Dutch labour market thus occupy the places at the Dutch universities? Then they can simply follow the study resulting from the technical profile for which they have chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u79	I have just tried to point out that too soon the conclusion is drawn that we should no longer have foreign students. Furthermore, universities like foreign students because non-EEA students pay institutional tuition fees. So they get a lot of money from that too. Many students stay in the Netherlands. The labour market welcomes this. I don't think employers would be happy if we didn't have places for foreign students anymore. By the way, I cannot distil the numbers from the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u80	We have just noted in the Minister's speech that the problem with the 91 students is very clear. The Minister also wants the institutions to assume their responsibilities. I find two things very regrettable. Firstly, that there will soon be students who cannot study technology or at least not the study of their first choice, while that is a small problem in the Minister's speech. Secondly, that there is a very wrong picture of technical training. It creates a very bad atmosphere, because you want people to be free to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u81	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think it is important to make it very clear that there is no fixus. The problem isn't big. If there is a fixus, you must have applied for the programme before 15 January. I would ask the Minister to send a letter before 15 January, or at least to make it widely known, that there is no fixus in these training courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u83	I can't. If I want institutions to assume their responsibilities, they have to consider whether or not they want a fixus. I just said that this may sometimes be necessary in certain situations, just because there are too many students. I have just indicated that this applies to two courses. Twice this concerns clinical technology; a popular education, both in Twente and Delft. Then it may be necessary for an institution to say: at least for this year we will not succeed. But that doesn't mean that these students can't go to technical training. After all, there are other training courses in technology. Any student who wishes to do a technical training course can, if he is unable to attend his first choice course at University A, who may be attending University B. I just gave the example of clinical technology. That's complicated, because Delft and Twente can't do that. But at both institutions there are a lot of other courses and if they are not there, they are there at the general universities that have these courses. So I can't send a letter. I would then fall into the responsibility of the universities. I would very much like to discuss with the universities how they can ensure that the right picture is created. I find it very unfortunate that in recent times an image has emerged as if you can hardly study technology anywhere. In my opinion, that story does not relate in any way to reality, at least not proportionally. So I would like to talk to the institutions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u84	A brief question, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u85	Then I repeat my question. Before 15 January, or before 1 January, will the Minister inform the Chamber of exactly what she has done and what the solutions are? I hope that this letter will also say that I am actually asking; the Minister has a free choice in that, but I would have a different opinion on it...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u86	I can promise the Chamber a letter, but I'll have to check it for when. The courses should indicate when they have a numerus fixus... I'm just looking at my employees. Looks like I have to come back to that in the second term. I can, however, give a letter on which institutions want to introduce a numerus fixus for which training courses. I can also indicate what I discussed in the meantime. However, I cannot guarantee that there would never be a fixus in any sector of higher education. That would be contrary to my belief that quality is always paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u87	It is good that the Minister makes this clear again, because we have had a lot of letters about being accessible or not. However, the Minister also said in her speech just now that it is also good to look at institutions dealing with stackers and side-instromers and where the funding is also getting tighter. I shall come back to this with Mr Bruins in the second term, but it is good that the Minister is going to do such an investigation or possibly send a letter. All this must be arranged in such a way that other funding bottlenecks are also considered. Yesterday I had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Duisenberg. I think there is much more going on if we want to ensure that funding is directed at everyone who deserves it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u88	The interruptions really need to be shortened now. I say this not only to Mr Mohandis, but to all the spokesmen. Interrupts must be short questions. Now every question is brought forward with a long speech. You have all had your own term. After this there is a second term. From now on, I am very strict, including for the rulers, because they too must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u89	I take this point from Mr Mohandis. I would like to congratulate Mr Bruins on his action plan for technical and specialist craftsmanship. I recognize many aspects of this: associative degrees, more regional profiling, the regional investment fund, the master-partner paths in the MBO, the integration of education into the labour market. Again, I am willing to commit myself to training people in technology, and not only at universities, but also at HBO and certainly at MBO, because that is crucial. But they have to be able to get to work. I come to my next theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u90	How much longer do you think you'll need to do that, even in connection with dinner break?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u91	I have two more themes. They should be ready in ten minutes, 15 minutes at the most. I joined the MBO block, with citizenship in particular. The Members have said the necessary things about this. I agree with them: citizenship is a key task for the whole of education, so certainly in the MBO. This is a key task for primary education up to university education. In a society in which people are increasingly able to fill in their own lives, one can easily live side by side. So this is an important theme. I just mentioned Margalith Kleijwegt and her report. I am curious to see what the Chamber will do with the views of the hearing on this matter for as many as two days. I am also very open to discussing this with the Chamber. Mr Mohandis drew attention to the better anchoring of social or civic education in the MBO. In June 2015, Mr Rog tabled a motion asking the government to examine whether it is desirable and possible to impose competence requirements on teachers giving citizenship. I have seen that these Members have jointly presented a plan for this. An external agency is currently investigating the quality of citizenship education in the MBO. The inspection is working on the thematic research into citizenship in the po, vo and mbo. I expect to receive both studies at the end of the year. If it calls for additional action, I am very happy to go along with it. But first I want to know what these two investigations, one of an external agency and one of the inspections, both of which are about citizenship in the MBO. Let's just say that we haven't been sitting still. Thanks to Mr Rog's motion, we have taken steps. This summer we have the critical thinking, actually learning to reflect and judge critically, anchored in the qualification structure of the MBO. What I think is very important is that this is going to take shape throughout the MBO programme; not just an hour of civic education or social studies in a separate subject, but integrated into all subjects. We have done this with the qualification decision. The demands for citizenship have been strengthened with knowledge of human rights. Trainings and manuals have been developed for teachers and other professionals. We cannot yet see the total yield, because all this has just been implemented. This must therefore also be improved. This action fits well with Margalith Kleijwegt's observations. I talked to her again last week. Once again, she is concerned about the cultural relativism of teachers. Mr Bertema also pointed this out. I agree with him. I listened to the little debate between Mr Van Meenen and Mr Duisenberg on values and traditions. I would argue that cultural relativism should be combated by teachers. It's very serious if a teacher would say that all truths are equally true. It's very bad when Charlie Hebdo's approach is put away as a figment of Zionists. I am just as sorry as the story about that boy who washed up on the beach in Turkey is being thrown away as propaganda from left-wing activists. This is precisely about the importance of learning to reflect. It's not just social education teachers who are responsible for that. In the MBO we do not know any subjects; there it must be integrated into all subjects. This also applies to a theme such as sexual diversity, which we have discussed recently with the emancipationists and which we will also discuss separately. It is important that we train teachers, including teachers' training, in difficult conversations and in citizenship as everyday practice. This is not only necessary after terrible incidents; you need to know what to do day by day. That's what I'm very motivated about. I am therefore going to organise another meeting with Margalith Kleijwegt next year, but together with all teacher training courses, where specific attention can be given to teachers who are going to teach in the MBO, because they have to do so in a different way than teachers who teach in society. Again, we don't know that class in the MBO. I therefore agree with the call made by several Members of Parliament for greater attention to be paid to this issue. I would first like to look at the results of these studies and the successes we are achieving, step by step, including the introduction of citizenship into the MBO. I also take up the question about the Vm2 routes, which both Mr Van Meenen and Mr Beertema have spoken about. I note that in practice for some of the VMBO students an extra year is working on the VMBO to raise the level and eventually to move on to the MBO-2 training. Beautiful examples are known, such as Calvijn Meerpaal in Rotterdam, where children with learning disadvantages can progress in this way. I have been to Calvin myself a few times with Junior College in Amsterdam and I see the same examples. We know that the vm2 experiments are particularly suited to students who need a clear perspective and a practical approach. For them, the experiment has proved effective. For other students, who are still busy making choices about professional identity, the experiment proved to be too narrow. Schools want more space within the system of vmbo and mbo and want changes to be removed. I think it is appropriate to consider what we can do with these vm2 pathways in the future. The Secretary of State and I will look critically at the first experiences with the experiment craftsmanship route, the successor of vm2. The craftsmanship route is good for some students, but perhaps not for others. We will explore the possibilities of introducing these programmes as a separate route next to the existing transit routes from vmbo to mbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u92	First, I have a question about the vm2 part. Do I now hear a promise from the Minister that it will be done? I understand there's gonna be an investigation first. At what time can we expect results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u93	I didn't agree to an investigation. I promised I'd see what the first experiences were with the craftsmanship route. I also said that the craftsmanship route and the vm2 route might exist side by side in order to shape the transition between vmbo and mbo, which I mentioned earlier in a small debate with Mr Rog, in a different way. The switching class is one way and these are other ways. The Chamber will hear more about this in a letter from us soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u94	I asked because I had a motion ready, but I wouldn't file it. I also have a question about the first part of the Minister's speech. What was that about again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u95	Citizenship education!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u96	Oh, yeah, yeah. I would like to say this to the Minister: I am pleased that steps have been taken and that the Minister now fully recognises the need to combat cultural relativism. I think that's a firm statement. I love that. I've been talking to people for a long time about how to handle that. Where do you start? It's a chicken or egg question. The trainers of the trainers are of course just as culturally reactive as the students and teachers. Cultural relativism is endemic in education. I'm genuinely interested in this. In what direction does the Minister think when it comes to an effective approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u97	That starts with teacher training. That's why I'm gonna organize that conference, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u98	But there are teachers who suffer from it, I'll say. They suffer from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u99	I agree with you that it is bad when teachers suffer from cultural relativism in the sense that they accept any view of truth. That is why we need cultural resilience. I fear, however, that Mr Beertema and I differ on what is to be done. As far as I am concerned, there is critical reflection on this: that there is not one reality or one truth about what the correct values or the real Dutch values would be. After all, they are also variable. It is therefore very important that we include students and teachers so that they learn how to deal with them. They need to learn to think about how information comes to them, how they can assess it and how they can have a good discussion about it with each other. So it's not about a true versus a false view of what I should all find. Fortunately not; fortunately there is room for different views.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u100	The Minister seems to be underestimating the PVV's cultural assessment. I believe we are in complete agreement, especially when I hear the term 'cultural resilience'. That brings us all together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u101	I count my blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u102	The Minister has spoken fine words about citizenship in the MBO. I think it is true that there is a lot of good going on there, especially with regard to professional practice and career orientation. However, the Minister also said that it is all integrated. Isn't it wise for us to offer some certainty? After all, there are schools that fail to implement, for example, the political and legal component, whereas that is also an assignment. They give that component no or very little detail. That's also totally free. Does the Minister agree with me that we should get rid of this noncommittalism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u103	I understand very well what Mr Rog is saying. I believe that we have already begun to do so by anchoring critical thinking in the MBO with a qualification decision. That is why I also want the inspection report, because it is very bad if schools do nothing about it. I would like to avoid that we have had this discussion more often than not that we place the MBO exactly in the mold of vo. You shouldn't say that: in the vo the subject of social studies is given, so you should also follow that in the MBO. Because that doesn't fit with the MBO. I would find it a shame to think this way, because then you put it somewhere separate and there is a derogatory one hour and one is done with it. I just want it to be all over the curriculum. It can't be non-committal. I am therefore prepared to look into the results of the research that we have yet to receive and the initial experience of the qualification decision to see if there is any further need in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u104	How does the Minister view that students who are trained to be, for example, police officers in the classroom, do not talk about attacks taking place on the European continent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u105	I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u106	I can go a long way with the Minister. The Minister keeps saying that much is happening in the area of citizenship, but the problem is that there are institutions where it is very non-binding. The argument is that it must be integrated everywhere, but it is not integrated everywhere. No one feels responsible for giving it in a good way. The plan must lead to the certainty that it is being given, especially in the case of institutions that are now doing a little bit of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u107	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u108	It's too noncommittal. There are institutions that deal with it far too freely. Does the Minister agree with me? Shouldn't we organize this much more firmly? Surely it cannot be that MBOs get much less in the field of social studies than, for example, vMBOs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u109	I think we should be on top of it tight. I find it unacceptable for schools to throw their hats at that. Again, that is why we have now introduced it as a core element. Now the schools have to work on it. We all have to be on the verge of it actually happening. Unfortunately, in education, I too cannot rule by decree and it is all settled the next day when I say: I think you should do all this now. That would be very nice, but it often takes a little more time. However, I am very motivated to tackle this issue and, above all, to learn from the good experiences. I would like to talk to MBO schools about this, but I would also like to talk about the good examples and the schools where things are not good enough. Maybe those two investigations I just mentioned will help us get a closer look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u110	If an MBO setting is just doing well, I'd say curly and ready. What matters is that there is an effort obligation on MBO settings. People do feel that they should do something about it, but that can sometimes mean in practice that a teacher who has a completely different competence is asked whether he or she would like to add it. That's a certain type of noncommittality. Every institution where it lures, there's one too many. I have seen examples of institutions whose names I will not mention now, which I thought you could not organise in this way. That's not how it's meant to be. That is another practical reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mr Mohandis has a few examples. Mr Rog also has a few more. Perhaps it would be good if I went back to work with both of them to see a good example and a place where things are not going well. Then we can look at how we can learn from that, so that we continue to conduct this discussion with each other towards those studies, towards those initial experiences. Then we can see where the improvement points are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u112	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u113	I am in need of the last theme: lifelong learning and training deductions. A number of questions have been asked about this by SP, VVD, CDA and ChristenUnion. Can I first of all draw attention to the fact that this cabinet is really taking a number of major steps to take substantial measures in the field of lifelong learning? It's been discussed for a long time. Some people say, "Luck for a lifetime." I myself have had my own experience of this, because once, when Mr Ritzen was Minister of Education, I was allowed to sit in the presidency on the knowledge debate, together with Mrs Gardeniers, Mr Wijffels and others. One of our conclusions was that lifelong learning deserved much more attention and that it would be good if much more were to happen with individual budgets, such as vouchers. That was early '90s. Not much has happened since then. The main achievement of the previous VVD and CDA cabinet was a proposal to reduce funding for MBO students over 30 years of age. Luckily, that bill didn't make it. Advice has also been written for years with the conclusion that demand financing would boost lifelong learning. I am sorry, however, for Mr Duisenberg, who talks about experiments and cutting-and-sticking that I am carrying out, that I think I am taking a number of steps that my predecessors have not taken. One of my illustrious predecessors, Mr Rutte, made a big plea for learning rights, but we have never seen anything like that again. Another illustrious predecessor, Mr Zijlstra, had proposals for demand financing. They died a soft death. This year we actually started an experiment with demand financing in higher education, so that we can conduct the discussion on the basis of experience from the practice. It may not be a big step, but it's never worked before. That is just one part of the policy. I would therefore say to Mr Duisenberg that in recent years, with a coherent package of measures, this cabinet has given a real boost to lifelong learning. I refer to lifelong learning credit, again thanks to the study advance, which allows for a maximum of five times the amount of legal tuition fees for recognised training courses. I mention the possibility of obtaining certificates for parts of training in the MBO. I mention pilots with flexibilisation in higher education, experiments with demand financing in higher education and explorations that are currently underway to launch such initiatives in the MBO. I call vouchers for the first cohorts of students studying with the study advance. I would like to mention a scheme of training vouchers and employment opportunities for job seekers at SZW, the funding of language and calculation courses through adult education and, finally, the intention to convert the training deduction into training vouchers. I would like to say a few words about that. The analysis of the CPB shows that of all taxable persons between 25 and 60 years of age, 2.6% deducts annual study costs. The CPB investigation also shows that the instrument is not effective and effective. It is called a training deduction and that sounds very nice, but the question is whether it is being used for training and whether it is being used for those who are most in need of training. The CPB says that in 73% of cases an additional euro in the deduction of training expenditure does not lead to an additional expenditure on training. Those who need it the most, namely people who are affected by the transition into the labour market, hardly make use of it, partly because you always have to prefinance a tax deduction. In addition, a tax scheme is more advantageous for people with relatively high incomes. They therefore use it more often than people on a smaller scholarship, while it has not been said that people on higher incomes are more in need of training than those on lower incomes. They both have it. That is why we want a new system that is more effective and that is also aimed at people with low or middle education, such as Mbo-2, Mbo-3 and Mbo-4, who have to deal with a lot of changes. Think about the automation! This means that the vouchers are also accessible to them. However, I would say to Mr Duisenberg that those vouchers are, of course, also accessible to others. They are also intended for a financial manager who has training at higher education level, who, for example, works at a bank and currently has little growth opportunities or whose job is threatened. This manager sees that there are vacancies at an ICT company, but he must have an associate degree or a bachelor's degree in ICT. Such a person struggles with the costs and with the training. The current employer is not going to pay it, because at best it only works with R&D funds. He has to go to a lot of trouble for it, but it costs money. And then a voucher can be the solution. You can apply for it in a minute. That does not need to be approved by the employer. A number of criteria have to be met, but if you get the voucher, you can also go straight to study or go to school. So what we want is a new scheme, a voucher scheme that goes directly to workers andzzp's and is intended for all those affected by this transition to the labour market. We expect that in the end, because we can get a large part of that deadweight out of it, we can reach as many people as we do now. And it helps to solve the budget problems in my department. I would also add that if it does not succeed with the training deduction, I can honestly see no other solution than, however painful, a lump sum discount. I've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u114	I give Mr Rog the opportunity to make a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u115	I'll take note of that threat. I'd like to go back to the contents. The minister says she wants to help groups who might need it more. What she's doing with it is expanding the range and, in the meantime, cutting down a huge cut. How is that going to fall out in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u116	As I just said, the eligible group is being increased. This means that you have to work in a transition labour market to be eligible for it. What we see now is that a lot of people deduct training costs. Look at the CPB report. It's not my conclusions, it's CPB's. They would also receive this education without deduction. I think it's both possible. We can increase the group we reach. At the same time, we can make a cut because we are taking out the inefficiency that is now in the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u117	The Minister calls it inefficient, but it is a right that exists now. The Minister is now asking us to put a line on this right. This means that people who work on their attractiveness in the labour market will no longer get that benefit. We do not know what kind of arrangement will replace that. I find it extremely complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u118	What will replace it is a subsidy scheme. We're making it right now. I'd like to see if I can put that arrangement in front of the Chamber. The point is that the subsidy scheme should be put forward in good time, so that the Chamber can quickly see what this scheme can look like. In view of all the analyses, I believe that the scheme can be used more effectively, or at least as effectively as it is now, when we make it a subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u119	I can go a long way with the Minister's reasoning regarding the ineffectiveness of the current deduction scheme. I can also follow the Minister in the way in which she wants to shape that independently of employers in a voucher scheme. But then it gets complicated. I am not getting any focus on whether the Minister is heading towards reaching the same number of people for less money. I can see that she wants to spend much less money on it or that it is a question of getting a much wider reach. How, then, does the Minister support the very substantial reduction of over 100 million in the total cost that is being incurred?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u120	I see that in the overall framework of lifelong learning measures we are taking. That's why I started it. This is not the only thing: we are encouraging in a lot of ways, but far more focused than with this very general deduction of education, that people invest more and get more into lifelong learning. It is true that the eligible group is increasing when it comes to training opportunities, but is getting smaller because it has to be made clear that it really has to be about training. The training allowance is now largely used for meetings, meetings and travel expenses. A voucher is really about education. It is therefore necessary to submit the plan in order to assess whether it meets the criteria. If that's the case, you'll get a lump sum, which will allow you to take the necessary training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u121	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u122	It remains a kind of general principle, which I do follow, but I do not yet have the beginning of understanding the criteria. How much is the amount involved? Is this 100% funding? Is there a fixed own contribution? Who is it intended for? Again, the key question is this. It seems, as evidence from the absurd, that you can save 100 million and at the same time increase the final effect below the line. That may be an assumption, but I don't see the Minister providing proof of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u123	That assumption is based, among other things, on investigations such as those of the Central Planning Bureau. It indicates what is now the dead weight loss and that these resources are actually not effective. Also on the basis of previous experience, we assume that a voucher scheme for €2,500 per person can be much more targeted. I understand there are questions about the exact design. I also believe that we will be able to discuss this subject on Monday. Then I will join in the tax debate your Chamber has with Mr Wiebes. However, research shows that the training deduction is in no way effective, that vouchers can also help to stimulate the initiatives of employees, zpp'ers and thus citizens themselves, and that arguments can therefore be put forward in this respect for more effective use. If the Chamber so wishes, I will see if I can answer her further on Monday. It won't work in writing, given the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u124	I'm getting excited about the plan that the Secretary of State outlines here. Does it also see a possibility to incorporate in such a system that you should not only pay for training from it, but also, for example, the recognition of acquired competences, i.e. the EVC certificates? So I'd like to make it a little bit wider than just the training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u125	The point is that you need an education or training to make that change to a next job or position. This does not always have to be a complete education. But those competences acquired elsewhere and those EVC pathways, of course, we are also trying to tackle them in other ways. That's what I just said. We want to work with certificates to do, for example, parts of training in the MBO. I think that is precisely what many people may need. In this context, Mr Bruins also referred to a motion he tabled earlier. He talked about lifelong learning and the question of whether we should not promote the right to at least an ad-level degree for everyone. Actually, that's already there, because the starting point is that everyone can take a bachelor's degree and a master's degree. There's actually no limit to that. So you can do that at a later age. Each adult can attend an MBO course. The challenge for graduate courses is to make them even more suited to the needs of adults. That is precisely why we are experimenting with demand financing in higher education and with demand financing in the MBO. That's what the Sap Commission is working on right now. So I would like to stress that all these measures really belong together. And yes, that education deduction and what we do with it, contain a cut. But this also includes a much more focused spending. This must be seen in conjunction with all the other plans we are presenting and which we will continue to develop in the coming period. This brings me to the end of my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u127	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr. Chairman. Last Monday we launched the Equal Opportunities Alliance in Amsterdam. The motto was: there must be no difference, you must make a difference. That motto was taken from my heart. When I started this job four years ago, my biggest annoyance was the mediocrity in Dutch education. Differences were brushed away or covered as much as possible, where schools or teachers were good at and could be better at, so too often remained unspoken, education was mainly aimed at eliminating disadvantages and nowhere in the world were the differences between the weakest and strongest pupils as small as in the Netherlands. But it lacked ambition and challenges for talents that can handle more. There lies my motivation to reduce ambition in education, to show differences and reward performance. We have achieved results in this area. More and more teachers pay attention to top talents in class. Mr Duisenberg has already referred to this. The number of students who claim to be bored in education was still alarmingly high in 2013: more than 56%; by now that number has been halved. The examination requirements have been increased; the whole education warned of a massacre, but the percentage of graduates has increased. The bar is higher and students can handle the level well. Having high expectations pays off. More and more schools work in teams of teachers and school leaders on a culture of "every day a little better." This is seen, for example, by the popularity of a Foundation for Learning Strength, which started in 2012 with 15 schools, but has now become a very broad movement with some 500 affiliated schools. We've gotten harder for schools that do bad. We do not let them muddle, but close them if necessary, as we have done with Ibn Ghaldoun and with the Foundation for Evangelical Schools. But we also put schools that do excellent work in the spotlight. The number of excellent schools in this cabinet period has more than doubled; the number of weak schools has been more than halved since 2011. In fact, I can tell you that next week's education inspection will produce a report showing that the proportion of weak and very weak schools in the Netherlands is now at the lowest level ever. That is a great compliment to all those masters and teachers, school leaders and administrators who have worked hard on it. When we talk about better education, we often talk to teachers, school leaders and administrators. However, the best advisors in education are the students themselves. I know them as expert, involved and critical. The latter is also right, because we are seeing progress, but we are far from there. Last Monday in Amsterdam, at the meeting on equal opportunities, it was the students who stole the show. There was a conversation with four or five students. One of those students came from Rotterdam. Chaimae was her name. She was 15 years old and was in class 4 of the VMBO of the De Hef course, a VMBO in Rotterdam-Zuid. She was powerful, active in the student council and now penetrated the college of mayor and aldermen, because she really had an incredibly good story. Her message was actually very clear: students want more ambition and inspiration and more attention to the development of personal talents. As for these students, challenging and contemporary education are also the main priorities for me. I will answer your Chamber's questions along a number of lines. First of all, I answer the questions raised about challenging education for all talents, high expectations, equal opportunities, which, as far as I am concerned, is also included in the scope of the programme and tailor-made work for pupils. Secondly, I will deal with the questions that have been asked about contemporary education and the renewal of the curriculum. I would also like to comment on the questions raised by your Chamber about the technical VMBO. Thirdly, I will address the questions that have been asked about citizenship and the core values in our education, also where this has a relationship with Article 23 and the "More room for new schools' bill. Finally, I would like to address the questions that have been asked about the framework conditions for good education. You can think of class size, time and reward of teachers. Challenging education...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mr Van Meenen probably has a question on... themes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u130	No, I have a question about the introduction. The Secretary of State actually describes the policy he has advocated and has also advocated here. Of course there are also successful elements in that, I am certainly not going to fight that. In the meantime, however, we have also noticed that inequalities in education have increased. This has been noted by the inspection, and this has been established by the OECD, which praises the Secretary of State for his other policies. Does he see a relationship between his policies in recent years and the fact that the success of pupils has become increasingly dependent on their parents' pre-training?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u131	Around no. What Mr Van Meenen is describing here is a false contradiction, namely that having equal opportunities must be at the expense of excellence and vice versa. However, the question is exactly the same: how do you enable children to get the best out of themselves and develop their talent and potential to the full? Basically, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u132	If so, one might expect that policy would have led to a reduction in inequality of opportunity, but it has increased. How does the Secretary of State explain that if it's not his policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u133	There are a lot of explanations for that. The OECD has said a few things about this and the Education Inspectorate has said a few things about this. There is not one reason why the strength of the Dutch education system to do well in terms of both excellence and equal opportunities is under pressure. That is why we have come up with an action plan. If you really want to make a difference, there is not one golden key, but then you have to do actions on different fronts: in the areas of transitions, of switching programs, of the final key, of streamers, of stacking et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u134	On that point, is it not true that the Secretary of State has scored mostly on the issue of excellence and that he has given particular attention to equal opportunities? The causes are well known, but they have not been dealt with in recent years or only after strong pressure from the Chamber, not even solved, and now, at the end of this cabinet period, there is a plan on equality of opportunity, while a number of things could have been taken up a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u135	No, the answer to that is absolutely no. Mr Grashoff is now saying that all this has been known for a long time, but I think that the report on education inspection we received this spring was a surprise for all of us. At least it made the alarm bells ring a bell with me and the Minister. We went straight to work to see what is needed to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u136	Already well before the inspection report was in place, we have had many debates here on the limitation of flow, on the reduction of multiple opinions, on the reduction of broad bridge classes, on obstacles that have crept into education on the basis of return accounting in the culture of education. Each time the Secretary of State says "I'll take it with me." He never said: I disagree with you, but in the end little has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u137	I think that Mr Grashoff and I differ on this. I think a lot has happened. Look at the flow and the stacking. I hear Mr Grashoff saying every time that there can no longer be stacking in the Netherlands, but in this cabinet period there has been an increase in stacking across the board. In fact, the total number of stackers in secondary education last year was at the highest level in ten years. That did not just fall out of the sky; we have all worked very hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u138	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u139	Challenging every child on their talents means that you do indeed sometimes have to work hard on equal opportunities, especially in places where children get less from home. Those kids need an extra boost at school. The same applies, however, to children who are bored and do not feel challenged. The point is that mediocrity in education must never become the norm. Education must make a difference for all children. You can, but that's not just settled. To achieve this, education needs to be much more tailored to the talents of individual pupils. We must prevent students from being placed in booths. In short, we need more customization. A great deal has happened in this area too in recent times. The strict standards for teaching time have been abandoned, to the full satisfaction of both schools and pupils. Mr Van Meenen mentioned this in his speech as a point due to D66, but I would just point out to him that it was simply in the coalition agreement. Much more is possible to enrich the normal education programme. For example, students in secondary school have been given the right to take courses at a higher level. Vmbo students can already follow parts of their program on the MBO. Vwo-students can go to university or finish their vwo in five years. In secondary education, we are now talking about customized diplomas and plus portfolios with which students can also show their good performance outside the regular courses. I liked the example of Mr Duisenberg's daughter. There are more summer schools and switching programmes; that is a point Mr Rog has always stressed. This gives students an extra chance to live up to their potential. We see that's paying off. As a result, the number of students remaining on one or two subjects actually decreases. With such an extra summer class these students can often just get back through the year after. These measures have undoubtedly brought about something. The system is becoming more and more adaptable to the student rather than having to adapt to the system. Talents get a better chance and are more challenged. Mr Duisenberg asked how we explain that the number of top talents is so much less bored than a few years ago. I think it's complicated to point out one factor for that. I think it is a combination of a very strong commitment through national policy and also ordinary money and, above all, the commitment of a lot of teachers, teachers and school leaders. We see that something really happens in those schools themselves. I think it has to do with a change in structure, making it more possible with more flexibility, but also with a change in culture. When I started four years ago I found teachers who said: what is the problem; these students will come on their own? That's really changed. If I am now walking around in education, I rarely encounter people who deny that students who can handle more and have special talents are entitled to education that challenges them. But we're far from there. Although the Netherlands is traditionally good at offering opportunities to children, regardless of their origins or the background of their parents, the Education Inspectorate found this spring that this very strong point is under pressure. That was also the reason for the Minister and me to launch this action plan this week. The Chamber has received that. Many speakers have referred to this and asked questions about it. I will focus specifically on a number of questions relating to basic education. The minister just got a couple of cases in h.o. And done in the MBO. I am referring, for example, to the final test, the broad bridge classes and the flow-right, which I will say about later. But let me begin with the comments that have been made on the alleged cuts in education deficit policy. Both Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Meenen spoke about a reduction in education deficits. I would point out that this is not a reduction but an adjustment of estimates. The 2016 budget already included a downward adjustment of the budget, up to 100 million in 2020, and the 2017 budget represents 10 million. These adjustments are linked to a decrease in the estimated number of apprenticeship weights. I cannot stress enough that schools and municipalities receive no less per pupil weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u140	We've been having this discussion for over a year now, so I'm gonna argue with you again. The Secretary of State does something he does all the time. There is some theoretical model, which makes it seem as if there are fewer students who are lagging behind, and so he says that there is rightly less money going, while we are still trying to look closely at the correct definition. In the Chamber, it has been said several times that there is at least a reduction in the amount of money that is to be spent on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I do not accept that the Secretary of State keeps his well-known story that there are fewer children whose education is lagging behind. That will still have to be determined, and meanwhile the Secretary of State is reducing the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u141	If that is to stop, I would like to see an amendment tabled by Mr Van Meenen. Last year he simply agreed to the 2016 budget, which included these estimates. It is not just a theoretical model, even if the determination of student weights is always model-wise. This is based on the level of education of parents. If you look purely at apprenticeship numbers, those numbers in education are decreasing. That's not theoretical, but you can just count that. This also has an impact on the resources needed for educational disadvantages. Moreover, we can see across the board that the level of education in the Netherlands is increasing. There are fewer people with very low education. We know that this is one of the biggest and most important predicting factors for children to lag behind. We may also celebrate that things are getting better in the Netherlands. Mrs Vermue and Mr Kuzu asked questions about the school opinion. They have proposed to require primary schools to update the school advice upwards if the score on the final test gives rise to this. I very much believe that a quality advice at the end of group eight is carefully drawn up, because it is so terribly important for the transition of children from primary school to secondary school. Parents and children are just entitled to that. In the letter of Monday and in the action plan that I sent, it can be read that I am not immediately in favour of automatically adjusting when the test goes higher. This makes that test de facto leading again, with accompanying test stress. The risk is that especially higher-educated parents send their child to a test training, because then a lot depends on the final test that is automatically adjusted. And it shows less confidence in the teacher's professionalism. For these reasons, the legislative proposal on the final test opted for a very good balance between, on the one hand, the school's judgment and, on the other hand, the test as a second opinion. However, I think it is important for schools to reconsider their advice when the test is higher. That is an obligation; schools must do so. The school needs to look seriously again at the advice "We have done this well, or perhaps we still need to adjust it, but there is always room for a professional judgement. The number of adjustments is increasing, and that is positive, but I do not think that increase is sufficient. I agree with Mrs Vermue and Mr Kuzu that it is undesirable that the majority of the opinions should not be amended now. We see this particularly in a number of schools and sometimes also in a number of larger school boards. That is also the reason why I asked the inspection to have a serious conversation with these schools. This applies in particular to schools where relatively few pupils receive revised advice. Furthermore, I will send a letter to all the parents of pupils in group eight, in which I will remind them of their rights. Then they can knock on the door at the school and then they know what they're up to. In that letter I will also mention that schools always have a duty to look again at the advice, to reconsider the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u142	I think it's a little too easy. The new law does indeed apply. The law is clear about that. We experimented for a while with an adjustment, a review. However, we see what the result is. Educational institutions are left behind. We see only one out of five opinions being amended. Does the Secretary of State consider it sufficient to do it this way: send a note, make a comment about it? Is that really gonna help? Then what can we charge the Secretary of State for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u143	If I thought it wouldn't help, I wouldn't. In any case, I can see that the number of adjustments is actually increasing relatively. Last year it was one in six, but by now it's one in five. I think we need to dive deeper into it to find out exactly what is going on. It is also possible, for example, that some schools have given a mavo/havo advice to someone who is now registered for a broad mavo/havo bridge class. From the key may come a Havo advice, but the child is already in a mavo/havo bridge class. The school then asks why this advice still needs to be amended. I don't think that's a good excuse, but that might be the story behind the numbers. I think we should look carefully at what is going on before we draw firm conclusions and call for the law to be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u144	In the meantime, thousands of students are not getting to the level that they can actually handle. That also affects the lives of those children. The Secretary of State knows that as the best. Shouldn't the Secretary of State act more decisively? Doesn't he really have to do something about it so that we don't end up at one or five, but everyone ends up at the level to which he or she is entitled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u145	It is intended that everyone should reach the level at which he or she is entitled. However, it is a little too easy to conclude on the basis of these figures that this is not happening across the board. It is quite possible that a test does give a higher score, but that a teacher and the school have very good reasons to hold on to an opinion. A school and teachers still see the whole film of a child. They experience the child tracking system, they know the situation and they know the working attitude and social emotional development of a child. On this basis, they will come to an opinion. If a different score or a different result comes out of the final test, I think it should always be looked at again: have we done well? But to say that all those masters and girls in the Netherlands have been wrong is too easy for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u146	I fully agree with the Secretary of State. If we make the test belching again, the gate will be off the dam again. So we should not do that. I do have a question. On what does the Secretary of State now base itself on the fact that it is too little? You must have a reason to assume that. It can't be both: the teachers are doing well, but it's happening too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u147	Mr Van Meenen has a point to make. This is a bit of a gut feeling. I would say that it should be higher, but if we go deeper into the data, we see very large differences between schools. If we compare schools with similar populations, we see that in some of these schools advice is much more often adjusted than in other schools. I think that's crazy. Then I think: what is going on in these schools that this doesn't happen or hardly does it happen, even though we see it goes higher and even though there is a duty to reconsider? I really do see room for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u148	May I conclude from this that the Secretary of State undertakes to give the Chamber more in-depth research into the underlying causes, in order to perhaps eventually adjust policy in schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u149	Yes. That is why I have a great preference for not making hasty decisions now and saying that we need to change the law now. In early 2017, I will send the Chamber an interim evaluation of the law on the final test in the po. I hope to be able to say a little more in these areas. Then we can also use the inspection, which also has all the data we're going to analyze, to sit around the table. In my opinion, this is the right time to discuss further with the Chamber any amendment to the law. Mr Vermue and Mr Grashoff expressed their concern about the decreasing number of broad bridge classes and the consequences that this could have for pupils' chances of flowing up. Mr Grashoff proposed to encourage the formation and maintenance of broad bridge classes with financial incentives. Both he and Mrs Vermue asked me why I do not want to go along with that. First of all, I share the concerns. I also see, of course, what is going on with the registrations and that there is a slight decline in them. In our letter on equality of opportunity, we indicated that we want to ensure that all children can enter a broad secondary class, but also that homogeneous bridge classes are and remain possible. In other words, students must have something to choose. For one pupil, a broad secondary class has been cut, while another learner is better served in a category mavo, which is often a little smaller in human terms, where a student feels more secure and where more personal attention is available than in the large, wide school communities where all school types sit together. I therefore wonder whether a financial incentive is the best way to stimulate broad bridge classes. After all, a financial incentive also results in redistribution effects. If you say: we're going to make it financially more attractive for schools to set up or maintain broad bridge classes, you're going to shift into the funding parameters of secondary education. This is at the expense of, for example, small VMBOs or other categories of schools. I find it undesirable that they should bear the burden of this. Then what are we gonna do? In order to ensure that there is an adequate supply at an acceptable distance in each region, including broad bridge classes, we announced in our letter that schools should make good agreements among themselves on the flow and transfer of pupils. These can also be agreements between category schools and broad schools. The sector is behind this. We are also going to map out the actual offer of bridge classes across the Netherlands. We have the macro figures and we see a number of trends, but we need to identify exactly where the white spots are. These are the regions and there you can also work more with customization in terms of policy. You don't have to do things generically for the whole of the Netherlands, but you can say so to speak: there, there and there we see that the accessibility and reach of broad bridge classes is compromised, and you can jump in on that. This can also be done with regional instruments, for example. For example, there is the Regional Plan on Educational Facilities. Boards in the region also make agreements on the provision of schools. I can very well imagine that they are also going to agree on diversity, the palette of schools, including schools with broad bridge classes. Mr Grashoff also asked questions about the right of transit. He's already made a proposal for that before. Like Mr Grashoff, I believe that students who have the potential to succeed at a higher education level should be given the right to face that challenge. Then it's about stacking. As far as I am concerned, this applies to any transition in secondary education, both for VMBO-havo, on which his motion was made, and for Havo-vwo, but also for stacking within VMBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u150	How much longer do you need for the flow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u151	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u152	Then let's do it first. Then I'll give you another opportunity for questions and interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u153	I just said it: I hear a lot of people shouting that stacking is no longer possible, but the opposite is true. I sent a letter to the Chamber on 13 June 2016. We see that it is rising; we are now at the highest level in the last ten years. Stacking happens most often in the transition from the vmbo to the havo. This is about 16.7% of pupils, one in six. However, I think we can do even better. In secondary education, a code of admission is used, but not every school adheres to it. It is therefore not always clear to students and parents what they are up to. That is exactly why, in my letter on equality of opportunity, I indicated that I wanted to move towards a legal right of transit, but that must be a right that offers real opportunities. Now we see, for example, that two thirds of the VMBO students with a 6 average stroke do not reach the finish line on the havo. I do not call that equal opportunities; that is a recipe for massive outbursts. We all wanted to counter the fallout, because we know that it is so terribly limiting young people's chances. We will therefore have to do this very carefully. What are we gonna do? In the short term, we will focus on switching programs. We have real money for that, too. These are switching programmes at the intersection between vmbo and havo, in order to be able to provide additional support for students who want to make the switch. That increases their chances of success at the havo. In addition, we are developing a legal right of transit, with a clear indication of the conditions for such a right. Think, for example, of an average final figure. This may be lower than it is now in the admission code, but if this is such a determining factor for the success of the HAVO, it may remain equally relevant. For example, think of the course package. In the minimum curriculum for students in the VMBO there are six courses. In the Havo there are at least seven. So it is often very complicated to pass through with a low number and a minimum box; then you immediately get into trouble. As the switching programmes bear more fruit, I think we can bring those additional requirements or conditions down step by step. I think that's what the members wanted. So much for short-term action. There are also longer-term actions. For example, we need to think of a fundamentally better link between the levels of education. This calls for a serious review of the curriculum, with better coordination between subjects and profiles and between the levels of the different types of school. We can see that they are too different now and that there are gaps between them. What if we succeed? This is rather complicated, because the VMBO is not only sorting for the HAVO, but above all towards the occupational columns in the MBO. We would very much like to keep it that way. But if we find cleverness for that, then perhaps an unbiased right of flow in the long term is one of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u154	I'd like to come back to those broad bridge classes. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that offering these broad or roof-pan bridge classes can also mean what is the cost of schools? For example, there may be more diversity in material. We must then be able to deal with more differences, so perhaps more attention should be paid to this by the teachers' teams. This could justify the pursuit of a different financing model. The current lack of this can be a reason for the decline in the number of broad bridge classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u155	It is good that Mr Rog asks this, but it is not the arguments that we get back when we talk about, for example, the financing model or where the costs lie. Perhaps Mr Rog has a point, but I can also think of a number of reasons why it might be easier and cheaper for broad school communities to set up broad bridge classes. Such a school is slightly more flexible in its classification than a small category school. Such a school also has more economies of scale, which translates into education. Small-scale education is by definition a little more expensive. It's a good question, but I don't have a clue that this is a part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u156	I have another short question. When a student enters a broad secondary school and does not get out at the highest level, this had negative financial consequences for the school board. Have these been taken away by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u157	The answer to that is "yes" for a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u158	So it can be... brief answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u159	I've got two interruptions, one on the broad seventh grade and one on the flow right. It's the two central points I have. They were glued together now, so I can only make both interruptions now. The first one is about the broad junior class.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u160	I'm going over the interruptions, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u161	Absolutely. If you prevent me from doing so, that is your right, and I find it annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u162	I say that because for the second time you announce how many interruptions you have. Anyway, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr President, I am forced to do so by this system, am I not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u164	What system do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u165	I think that is fine with blocks, but that may mean that you have something to eat with each other on more than one subject. That's not weird, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u166	Probably for you, but so far it's working fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u167	The Secretary of State says that he doesn't want to do anything about it financially, because that is at the expense of something else. I find that a strange argument. If you really think it's important and you want to stimulate it, that's a reason to say that you have a little more to do than do something else. It is therefore up to the schools themselves to choose and take the consequences. I still don't see why the Secretary of State, if he is serious about promoting something and taking into account that we think the quality of the broad bridge classes is important, doesn't say that the schools should have a little more opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u168	I think it's important. I think it's important that there's something to choose. I see no legitimate reason to finance one type of school or one grade more or higher than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u169	I can see that. That is also my question to the Secretary of State. The criticism of the phenomenon of the broad middle class is essentially that it is an extra burden if you have pupils with different levels in the classroom, while at the same time you want the broad middle class to benefit them all, not only the less intelligent student but also the top class. Isn't this criticism also the argument to say: yes, we need to have a little more money left over, for example by making a class a little smaller or by allowing a little more guidance for those students?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u170	Sometimes you can disagree politically. Mr Grashoff says that GroenLinks thinks that the broad secondary class is the best option for all pupils, both for top-level and for those who just need some extra support. I think it's a little bit different. For some children, a wide secondary school is a fine type of school. It would be a problem if there were no wider bridge classes available in a region across the board. However, I also see children finally blossom when they can go to a small-scale Mavo, where with a few hundred students they suddenly regain confidence and do wonderful things. They also get equal opportunities there. Mr Grashoff asked: why don't you put one thing first? I don't feel like rewarding the broad middle class or the broad school community and punishing the small category schools, because that's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u171	No one says that schools should be punished. I would like to comment on the right of transit before we let that pass. The Secretary of State states that he intends to organise a legal right of transit. I am happy about that, but there are still students in the Netherlands who, with an average of 6.7, are excluded from access to the HAVO. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? When can we see that proposal? How is the Chamber involved? I still haven't heard from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u172	I think that's a problem. Mr. Rog gave an example of such a school where to flow through you had to stand on average a 7 instead of a 6.7. In my view, it is a 6.8 which is included in the admission code as a sector agreement. I think that's undesirable, because then it's gonna be a big deal for parents and students because you get to go through school with a 6.7 and you have to have a 7 on average at the other school. I am very much in favour of clear national standards that we can legally lay down. I imagine we'll just decide in the law when you have the enforceable right to stack at a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u173	The Secretary of State is talking about national standards. Does he mean that there will be national standards on top of the diploma, with the result that we will exclude even more students from access to the HAVO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u174	No. The admission code is a sectoral standard. However, it has been agreed on a sector-wide basis, which is not everyone's responsibility for ensuring that pupils meet certain requirements. One is that pupils must have a certain average figure in order to have the right to flow through. In any case, schools can always deviate from that in a positive sense. If schools think a student with an average 6.5 can handle it, then they can stack if the school sees something in it. According to the national code, you really have that right above 6.8. The problem is it's a code that's not enforceable. Not all schools are in. We can make it enforceable by making it a national scheme, so that everyone knows where they are, without saying that someone with a Mavo diploma can pass through unbiased, without making up the average grade and curriculum. In fact, we know that the chances of students dropping out with a 6 average are incredibly high. That's not a recipe for equal opportunities, it's a recipe for massive outbursts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u175	If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, he is now in the process of formalising that we accept and allow, together, inflation of the VMBO diploma, by limiting the law that would logically result from it, namely access to further education. That's worse than the code that exists right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u176	I don't agree with that at all. There is now a code, but a number of schools do not comply, so the situation for parents and students is very unclear. A national standard seems to me to be very good, because it offers clarity and clarity to pupils, so that they know what legal rights they have. We can see that a Mavo diploma in its most minimal form, with low grades and a very narrow curriculum, is not enough to succeed at the HAVO. Then you have to ask yourself if it is wise to give everyone the chance to stack automatically. That's really a recipe for accidents. In recent times, we have made an incredible effort to reduce early school leaving. I know one thing for sure: if we go down the road that Mr Grashoff proposes, namely that a Mavo diploma, even in its most minimal form, always gives entitlement to stacking in Havo, the early school leaving will simply increase again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u177	It could increase the rate of early school leaving. But let's face it: what the Secretary of State is proposing here is the incredibly hollowing out of the rights that are attached to a diploma. He also shuts down the road to the Havo for the percentage that would succeed, because he says that there might be a lot of others who wouldn't make it. That is to promote inequality of opportunity in the purest form.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u178	I think that Mr Grashoff and I differ. I think that clarity, a legal flow right and extra help with switching programs just give students the support to take that step. If we succeed, the conditions attached to the flow fee can be brought down step by step as far as I am concerned. That must be done carefully, because I do not want to bear the responsibility for the fact that many children are going to fall into havo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u179	What is so amazing about this debate is that everyone here, including the government, has been talking about fighting inequality since last Monday. The Secretary of State has issued a plan in which there are more opportunities for stacking and more opportunities for flowing through. That's great, because we're all shocked that the division is increasing. Now here's a flawless motion from October 2015 that says that if you have a mavo diploma, you can go to the havo. Everyone has to understand this. Why doesn't the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u180	I will carry out that motion, because it calls for a right of transit. I have already indicated that I want to make this legal, but I want to do it carefully, so with conditions as long as that is necessary and with additional switching programmes to give students just a little more chance to make that step, but not completely unbiased for the time being. Otherwise, we'll see that a lot of kids fall out in Havo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u181	That is the whole point: the Secretary of State does not carry out the motion. The motion states that if you have a VMBO degree at the level of the theoretical learning path, read "mavo," you may go to the havo. The Secretary of State won't allow it. He allows clauses, i.e., you have to have an average 6.8. That's what those schools' code of conduct says. If he executes this motion, if he takes Parliament seriously, he says: away with that code; a Mavo diploma gives access to the Havo. This fits in with the story of equal opportunities and the right to flow. Execute it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u182	I am very willing to follow up on that motion and implement it, but I would like to be careful and sensible. The admission code is now based on a 6.8. I can imagine that, with those switching programs that we're going to create, that average figure can go down, because you're still getting some extra help and an extra switching program. Then maybe the kids should do something extra in the summer. As far as I am concerned, we are building this up rather than creating additional blockades. But once again, if we see that students with a narrow curriculum and low average numbers are more likely to fail than a chance of success, then I really think that we need to consider a way of implementing the flow right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u183	Mr Duisenberg has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u184	That is true, because we can all see that Mr Van Dijk is more interested in his motion being carried out than in the fact that students are going down massively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u185	That wasn't an interruption to the Secretary of State. I hear it's called entrapment. Mr Van Dijk, you may respond briefly. You should have just done that, but that's okay. You do not have to respond, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u186	I would like to say to Mr Duisenberg: have a little respect for democracy. Here's a crystal clear motion with very strong arguments. It has been accepted and the Secretary of State says very nicely: I am not carrying her out. That's not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u187	I will continue with the following theme: contemporary education. If we want to prepare our students well for the future, it is already necessary to think carefully about our curriculum. The current curriculum is outdated, incoherent and overloaded. That is perhaps the case because we have never looked at this curriculum in conjunction. We see the labour market changing very quickly. Jobs disappear and new jobs are added, but one thing is certain: the time you joined an employer and then stayed there 30 to 40 years until your retirement, is really far behind us. This requires flexibility and the willingness to continue learning. Knowledge remains the basis, I say to anyone who hammered it again. But other things also become more important, such as working well together and the ability to think creatively. Mr Duisenberg mentioned the human dimension: empathy. The Netherlands scores low on the motivation of students. There's another similar relationship with that curriculum. Students want appealing and relevant education that helps them to better understand the world around them and the world in which they live and see the news. That is exactly why two years ago we started a broad discussion about the curriculum, and not even about a box here or there or off but this time in full width under the title Education2032. That is what we are going to continue with teachers right now, because they are going to be the ones who have to work with that new curriculum. Mr Van Meenen stressed the importance of digital skills and coding. I fully agree with him. Working and learning in a digital world is, in my opinion, part of the core of contemporary education. We see that getting more and more important. This was also reflected in the opinion that the Platform Education2032 was published early this year. The platform indicated that digital skills should also become part of a core curriculum. So it's not just about language and math, but also this is really part of the future. Mr Bruins asked for technical attention in primary education. That's actually the same thing. The opinion also said that this should become part of a core curriculum. So we no longer want loose projects here and there in an elementary school, but it has to become a permanent part of the teaching material. I can assure you that the deepening phase in relation to Education2032, to which the Chamber very much attached, will be completed later this month. I expect the opinion on this during the course of this month. I will then inform the Chamber about the continuation of the curriculum renewal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u188	I am also aware that this discussion is ongoing. It is good to hear that at the end of this month it will lead to a result. Then we'll look at that again. I have drawn attention to it, because education2032 or not I cannot imagine a scenario in which digital skills should not become part of education. A motion from me on primary education has also been adopted earlier. I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that this could mean that you are already starting to train teachers and develop teaching materials. That's actually my question. Does the Secretary of State want to start on that road as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u189	I don't know if we're going to run into a lot of time for that, because we're going to make a next step in the course of this month. I can't imagine teachers coming up with the statement that ICT isn't important anyway. I really think that's gonna be a part of it, and I really think that's gonna be a part of it. I would also point out to Mr Van Meenen that it was he who rubbed my nose last year that I should not be working on developing all kinds of teaching material and parts of the curriculum if I did not bring those teachers. One of the reasons why we took that flooring is to involve them. Mr Van Meenen says that ICT is important and Mr Bruins says that we need more technology in primary education. In the conversations I have with many teachers in primary education, they say: stop doing something else, without thinking about what might be a little less. If we think that the core curriculum is wider than just language and arithmetic, and this is a fixed part that needs to be included, then we should all also discuss what that means for the rest. In that integrality, I like to fly it. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna make a flying start next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u190	Fine. I can live with that. If I were to table a motion on this now, I would hold it until the report arrives, so I accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u191	Moreover, I have already addressed the most urgent curriculum renewal, I say to the Chamber. This is separate from the discussion on Education2032. This is the curriculum renewal in the VMBO: the introduction of the vocational programmes. The number of profiles you can choose as a student is reduced from 35 to 10. As a result, they are better organised for schools, give pupils more space and improve their connection to regional vocational education and the labour market. Now many speakers have expressed their concerns about technical education in VMBO. Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog pointed out that technical training was in danger of disappearing in more and more areas. Mr Bruins mentioned the growing shortage of technical trained people. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Van Dijk asked for attention to be paid to the tight funding. Let me begin by saying that the importance of technical vmbo cannot easily be underestimated. The commitment to the flow of technicians from education to the technical labour market and the maintenance of technical talent is extremely important both for professionals in the workplace and for those who are highly qualified in technology. Therefore, I take very, very seriously the signals that have been expressed yesterday and which have already sounded in the media over the past year. Since the last time we discussed this, I have not been idle. We've done a number of things. For example, we have researched the participation of students in vmbo technology in our own files. We have had a quick scan performed among all vmbo schools to see what they are going to do with the transition from the old to the new profiles. We have talked to schools that offer technical vmbo, to see where exactly the pain is and what exactly the problems are. I asked the Education Council for advice on how to ensure the future of VMBO. There are challenges in terms of financing, but also in terms of shrinking. That makes it difficult to organise. When VNO-NCW and SME Netherlands called last year, I immediately contacted them to see what exactly is going on and how we can work together to find solutions. Because we have put things in motion on many fronts, it seems to me appropriate to give a factual picture of the situation in the VMBO on the basis of the information that has emerged from it on the basis of three important concerns. Is the number of students who technically choose VMBO going down? Does the regional offer, that is to say, do we currently lose technical training? What exactly is the financial situation and are there bottlenecks? To begin with, does the number of students who choose technical VMBO fall? The answer to that is yes. The number of students who opt for a technical direction has been falling for several years. Unfortunately, I'd say. Between 2005 and 2015, the number of pupils in vocational education who opt for technology fell from 29% to 20%. I think that is a worrying development. VNO-NCW also explicitly points out that certain groups of pupils seem to prefer, for example, economic and administrative education, while employment is right in the technical sectors. This also has to do with an image problem of the technical subjects, of those sectors. This is partly the reason why I attach such incredible importance to the fact that with the new professional profiles career orientation and guidance has really been made a mandatory subject, so that you can start talking about questions like: where will the work be, what will suit you, what exactly do professions involve? This will enable these students to make a better informed choice. The Technics Pact is also important in this respect, because it aims to increase the popularity of technology. In the Havo and VWO we also see that this works very well. There the numbers of students have increased considerably. In the vmbo there is still a lot to be done. My discussions with employers' organisations and the technical business sector, among others, show that they can help to show what good work is done in these technical sectors. But there's still a lot of work to be done. Another question may be to what extent the declining numbers of pupils are linked to a reduced supply of institutions. This brings me to the second point: is there a decline in the supply of technical education institutions? Is there even, as Mr Rog said, a bald blow? As a result of the introduction of the new profiles, I do not see any reduction in the number of institutions offering technical education. I've had research done on the supply of the profiles before and after the introduction of the new profiles. That's why I had all the VMBO schools questioned. So we have gone through all these schools in the Netherlands in recent months. With a response of almost 80%, we really have a good picture of the flag. What does that prove to be? Schools convert almost one-on-one their departments to the new profiles. As far as the technical profiles are concerned, the sample shows that technical profiles are disappearing in a number of municipalities, but new offers are added; that is the other side of the coin. Let me give you an example: it turns out that building, living and interiors disappear in 12 municipalities, but that there are 36 municipalities where this training is new. The PIE profile, which is production, installation and energy, really a hardcore technical training... appears to disappear in 13 municipalities, but in 8 municipalities it is added.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u192	I take it you're done with this, Secretary of State? No? Mr Bruins has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u193	13 minus 8 is 5. It's going down by five anyway. But apart from that, I have the memory of taking this out of my mind for a moment that we discussed with the Secretary of State in May or June. Then we asked for the results of the first quickscan. Then he said, "Wait till the autumn; I'll have it complete." But we have not yet received the complete report, so I ask the Secretary of State to be sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u194	We are really trying to give a better picture in the short term. We have also been investigating the future of VMBO. If you want to know exactly when it will be, I might have to come back to it in the second term. Then I can tell you when I can give you the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u195	The exact dates are important, because Metaalunie, VNO and SMB-Netherlands have also called the whole of the Netherlands and made enquiries. That's where results come out that I'm really worried about. I would therefore like to be able to make the comparison in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u196	I think that would be great. However, I would point out that we are working closely with VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands. Mr Bruins himself indicated that it does disappear in a number of cities. At his quick math, he came under the line at a minus. We can see that, too. We are not sitting still there either. We're really going in. I recently had a meeting with UNITO-VNI, the industry organisation for the installation, precisely with a number of regions where it is really difficult to sit down, so with the local business community, the relevant alderman and the relevant school boards, to talk about how we are going to ensure that it stays or that it does. I have good hope that this will lead to something, also because the driver of the Technics Pact is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u197	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u198	I just said something about turning profiles. If we look at a slightly longer time horizon, I have to say that in the past few years some technical departments have indeed been divested. I think it's a little too far to call that a bald blow. After all, this sometimes has something to do with shrinkage. However, for the vast majority of the Netherlands a technical vmbo is located within a radius of 10 kilometers. I come to the third question. Is there some kind of tight funding in the VMBO? Two discussions actually play a role here. Firstly, it is indicated that the switch from the old to the new profiles requires an occasional investment. We've been watching that. I also note that the introduction of these new profiles is very different from governance to governance. This also has to do with the choice of profiles and the fold. Some drivers, for example, purchase point welding machines or scaffolding material because they now want to offer profiles that fit them. Other boards already have these materials in place. I have no signals that the introduction of the new profiles has caused serious financial problems. This may also have to do with the fact that, of course, wise governments have seen the change coming years in advance and have taken this into account in their management. The second point relates to the structural costs of technical VMBO and the question of whether these costs are higher than the funding received by the administrations. That question was raised earlier by Mr Bruins during an AO in which we discussed this issue. We can see that in the current funding, vocational training is already receiving more money, because the costs are higher there. There is therefore a higher level of funding per pupil per year. An approximate amount of €600 is paid for a learner in the technique than for a learner in the theoretical learning path. So there is a kind of storage of about 10%. To date that has always been enough to offer just technical vmbo. I do not immediately have any data or information showing that this has changed. However, we are looking seriously at this. There are several developments around that vmbo. There's a lot going on in these schools. For example, we are on the verge of demographic decline in secondary education. This will also have an impact on the supply of technical vmbo. The proposed simplification of funding, which we have been discussing for some time, also plays a role. Given all these factors, and given the value I attach to this technical vmbo, I have asked the Education Council to advise me on this. The aim is to ensure that funding enables schools to maintain a high-quality supply of technical education. As I said, depending on the discussions and the outcome of those investigations, I will inform the Chamber further. I will repeat in the second term when exactly that will be. I come to the third issue that has been raised, namely the formation of citizenship and the basic values in education. Both from education and from the Chambers, attention has been paid to this. Mr Duisenberg asked about the implementation of the Strauss motion. Mr Rog also pointed out, as did Mrs Vermue and Mr Beertema. I actually hear everyone saying that citizenship in schools deserves more attention. That's not crazy at all. We see that more and more topical issues come into the classroom. Sometimes they lead to violent reactions and conflicting views. It is precisely there that the school has a very important, forming role. The Minister said that just now. In a more diverse society, the importance of the transfer of standards and values in education is increasing. It is precisely now that our shared values are under greater pressure and tensions that education has a crucial role to play. It is very important that pupils not only know but also support the core values of a democratic state of law. Teachers must not let things go: racist statements and anti-Semitic statements do not belong in school and action must be taken against them. Citizenship is just as important as language and mathematics and deserves, as far as I am concerned, a more prominent place in education. Now it is true that ten years ago we laid it down in the law, with the task of citizenship. But that's what it's all about right now. Schools need to work on citizenship; point. This leads to too little planning and too little focus for schools to work on. What is the result of that? In international research we see that Dutch students score particularly poorly in the field of knowledge of the fundamental values of our democratic rule of law and also the appropriate skills and attitudes remain behind. Now we haven't been idle in the last few years. A great deal has been done in terms of support. But if you look deep into my heart, you can see that I think it's still too noncommittal in education. Citizenship must therefore take a firmer and larger place in the core curriculum. Perhaps we should also define more precisely what needs to be done with it. This too was one of the opinions contained in the report of the Platform on Education2032. There was something about ICT and technology, but the other big point was that citizenship should be more secure in education. So I come back to this in my letter on the sequel of 2032. As far as I am concerned, citizenship and values in the Netherlands will receive ample attention in this respect, I will give place to the implementation of the Strauss motion and I will also take into account the results of the ongoing thematic survey of the state of citizenship education in the Netherlands. We are talking about the core values in the Netherlands. That is why we cannot avoid the freedom of education. Article 23 is now almost 100 years old, but is still alive in my opinion. I enjoyed the contributions of Mr Bruins, Mr Bishop and Mr Rog, who, from their identity and background, naturally have warm feelings. However, as a liberal, I am also firmly in favour of freedom of education and of Article 23. I am also a liberal because I like the fact that people in the Netherlands can start their own school. We reward with Article 23 private initiative. Parents also have a choice in the Netherlands. With Article 23, we do not have uniform state education. There is no country in the world where the supply of schools and education is as multiform as in the Netherlands. Article 23 allows a free choice of parents and pupils for a school that fits their ideas on education and education. And if that school isn't there, you have the opportunity to set one up. That freedom is limited and restricted at the moment only by the way in which we have incorporated Article 23 into lower laws and regulations. That is why I think it is time to ensure that the implementation of Article 23 is brought back to date. I agree with Mr Van Klaveren that it is necessary to return to the core of Article 23, where everyone is free to start a school, although I heard in his contribution that people have to pay for it themselves. That's what I'm in. But the core of freedom of education for all is also at the heart of what the Education Council said in 2013 at the request of your Chamber. Modernising Article 23 is the essence of the bill More room for new schools, which I hope to be able to send to the Chamber after the turn of the year. With that bill, I want to increase the opportunities for parents and other initiators to start a school. As far as I am concerned, this can be done on a religious basis, and we are not going to abolish it on the basis of a good idea of education. We are only making the freedom greater in that respect. There is also another side to the proposal, namely that the freedom of education should never be a licence for education that does not meet quality requirements or education that is contrary to our core values. Here too, we see that the current legislation and regulations are inadequate. We've got a couple of pending lawsuits. I'm not going into that in detail. I think that every school should ultimately contribute to learning children what it means to become part of our society, our society. That school must be run by good drivers and not by revolving door drivers who, after closing a school last week, start again tomorrow. That is sometimes the case at the moment. With the current legislation and regulations, we have no way of stopping this. As far as I am concerned, that is the second element of the legislative proposal, which is more room for new schools: to increase freedom, but serious education that meets quality and core values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u199	Were you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u200	I'm done with this subject, except for the acceptance requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u201	Perhaps you could comment briefly on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u202	Yes, because then I have completed this theme in its entirety. I can imagine that Mr Van Dijk hopes that I will perhaps include the obligation to accept this bill as well, but I have to disappoint him in that, I am afraid. I would like to stress once again that this is also a very small percentage of schools which actually makes use of the possibility of implementing an admission policy. Not all special schools do that, and this can only be done on the basis of consistent and consistent policies, which must also be in line with the general law on equal treatment. Especially in primary education, it is often small schools outside the big cities where the problem of segregation is hardly at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u203	I thank the Secretary of State for his warm words about Article 23 and the pluralism that that article has given us in the Dutch education system. I would also like to thank him for his disgust at the uniform state education that Mr Van Klaveren has in front of him; I must not think about it! Room for new schools. That sounds really good. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the relatively high standards of foundation in the Netherlands will be a bump that we will have to take before there really is room for new schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u204	I think we will have to have the discussion about foundation standards in the long term, but one does not have to wait for the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u205	I was wondering if the Secretary of State could explain, from his liberal view to which he himself referred, why religious education should be a task of the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u206	That's not a state's job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u207	The Secretary of State just said he likes it when it's paid for by taxpayers. The general resources are used to this end. The essence of particularly religious education is religious education. The Secretary of State makes that a state task. Why, I ask him, especially in view of his liberal vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u208	Two things. Special schools are not part of the State. They are private foundations, private associations or communities of parents who consider it important to provide education that fits their identity. That's one. Two. This is about religious education, says Mr Van Klaveren. No, it's about confessional education. Children simply learn language, count and all other subjects that children also teach at other schools. Otherwise, we wouldn't allow it at all. The inspection would intervene immediately. You can do that from a certain identity. You may lead in prayer in the morning or you may end the week with a week's closure, or you may occasionally read a part of the Bible or the Qur'an. I think that should be possible in schools. I think it is a value of the Netherlands that we offer this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u209	It is true that religious schools are paid from the general funds. With that, it has become a task of the State. After all, the Secretary of State pays religious education on behalf of the Cabinet, and it does do so in religious education. For example, when people receive Koran lessons, those lessons are taught by teachers who are paid from the general funds. The Secretary of State apparently thinks it is wonderful to spend it on religious education. I have another question. How does the Secretary of State look at the words of Frits Bolkestein, an icon of his own party, who very explicitly said that Article 23 is absolutely not a liberalism?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u210	There is also some discussion among liberals. If Bolkestein said this, I disagree with him. I'm more in favour of the Prime Minister's line. Last week he put it firmly in the First Chamber. Like me, he is very pleased that we have Article 23, because it allows private initiative and increases parental choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u211	The VVD is a house with many rooms; I believe that was it. I'm all behind the Bolkestein line. That is a great liberal, I would like to say to the Secretary of State on this point. His group chairman, at least the group chairman of the VVD in the Lower House, also recently said that such an acceptance obligation is appropriate to us. The Secretary of State of the VVD-huis is therefore becoming increasingly alone among large liberals who see that this naturally fits perfectly in the line of the VVD. So I don't really understand why he's hugging these very respected little Christian parties so strongly. I respect them, too. The Secretary of State says "it may only be a small group of schools that can do that," but they are there. There's a small group of schools that just keeps the door shut for you, chairman, and for me, because we don't fit the profile of that strict Christian school. My question to the Secretary of State is: is that still of this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u212	I'd like to reflect the question. Why does Mr Van Dijk deny certain groups of parents or certain schools the possibility of carrying out a particular identity? The percentage really is a fraction of the number of schools throughout the Netherlands. I see a lot of schools in particular that are incredibly diverse. The Education Council also indicated in 2013 that there is no reason to assume that special education is conducive to segregation. So I really think it's a sham problem that we're trying to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u213	I do not deny the special education to exist. Let me turn it around: why does the Secretary of State deny it a healthy Dutch child from a normal family who happens not to meet or fit the profile of that school, to enter it, while the education is paid for by all of us. That's the answer to his question. Dutch education is paid for by Dutch taxpayers. The public school must always open its door to every child, regardless of origin, but in these special schools, these are not only orthodox-Christian schools, but also Islamic and Jewish schools, the State Secretary allows them to conduct a door policy. I'm very sorry about that. I would advise the Secretary of State to go along with his time a little bit. Also look at the current discussion about the separate worlds. The Secretary of State can always try to make it small, but you can see that there are always schools that have exclusive policies, including in the big cities. There is even talk of Gülen schools. The Secretary of State should therefore go along with his time and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr Van Dijk is keen to see the schools he has in mind, or rather, which he is targeting, act like small islands. Does the Secretary of State have any indication that these schools do not comply with citizenship and that they also do not comply with the orientation of society and with the involvement of society as a whole and with other population groups? Does the Secretary of State have any leads in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr Bishop, as it were, is putting the ball on the penalty tip, so that I can actually shoot it for open purposes. No, we don't have those clues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u216	And to think I don't like football at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u217	The question is whether we are dealing here with a real problem or with a theoretical problem, I say to Mr Van Dijk. If a school has a very strong identity, I don't think it's so crazy, but it's a handful of schools in the Netherlands that ask those schools, if you want to bring your child there, that you'll, for example, endorse the identity of that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u218	I believe that this point has been discussed at length.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u219	Can I make another comment about the Gülenschools? Well, that did bother me during the summer discussion. The majority of the schools we are talking about say that they are not a Gülen School at all and that they do not want to be called Gülen School at all. A lot of that is found, without people visiting it. I did visit one of these schools: Cosmicus in Rotterdam. This school is in South, a mixed neighborhood. The composition of that school was as mixed as the neighborhood itself, I can tell you. They were not just Turkish children, but for two thirds they were Hindus or Moroccan children or ordinary Dutch children and a third was Turkish. Of the staff working there, only 25% had a Turkish background. Let's make a judgment based on the facts before we talk about horribly closed communities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr Van Dijk, let me finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, how kind of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u222	Glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u223	That one-two between Mr Bishop of the SGP and the Secretary of State of the VVD, who just said: can I get the ball in or shoot it up, that says everything. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to reconsider who he's embracing. Mr Bishop is a great man, but about the party he's from, we should talk again. There is no integration of pupils there, Mr Secretary of State. Mr Bishop asked if you have any indications that something is going wrong there. The quality of these schools is high, but do not deny that Mr Bishop's schools consist exclusively of one group of pupils and that they are an island.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u224	Mr Bishop may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u225	Can I get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u226	No, but you referred to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u227	I appreciate that. Mr Van Dijk makes a clear error of opinion. My question was whether there were any indications that students who attend that school are not active in society, are involved in society as a whole and in that sense are part of society, what we call integration, and also establish contacts with people outside that circle, in their own way. That is how Mr Van Dijk's question needs to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u228	You've made your point. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u229	Very briefly. We have talked a lot about the fundamental values in the Netherlands and that our freedoms are under pressure. I say to Mr Van Dijk that you are not protecting freedom of education by abolishing it. We need to ensure that this freedom is not abused, that the quality of schools in particular is good, that good citizenship is being worked on, that there is attention to integration, but to say that we are putting the whole special education on the sidelines or stopping it is really a step too far. With that, you're throwing away something very valuable in our educational tradition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u230	Whose freedom is Article 23 really about? Isn't it about the freedom of parents and children to choose a school and not about the freedom of schools to admit children?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u231	Freedom of education assumes that parents can choose the school themselves, but if you look purely at what is in the Constitution, it is about the possibility of establishing a school. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u232	The Secretary of State is now trying to settle the plea by saying that it does not help to put aside the whole special education. I didn't hear anyone say that here. Even my party doesn't say that. The only point here is whether or not it is the duty of acceptance. I hope that we will soon be able to enter into a debate with the Secretary of State and that the bill that has been before us for ten years will come into being. It is very interesting to see how the Secretary of State relates to his own party, because in his party there are a lot of noises to support that law. We're gonna go through it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u233	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u234	I have already indicated that this will also be the best discussion within the party. This is my opinion. Apparently, there's been a bill for a very long time. I would say that the Chamber is about its own agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u235	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u236	Then cop it and discuss it. At least we know what I'm up against. I'm moving on to the last block. In doing so, I will address a number of questions on the framework conditions for good education. Good education can only be provided if the conditions are in order. We want the best teachers for the classroom and those teachers must have the space to exercise their profession properly. If we have happy and happy teachers, I say to Mr Rog, then it must be possible to get the students excited so that they choose to become teachers too. There is no subject where it is best possible to seduce a future generation to choose that profession. The framework conditions must be good. That is why we have invested heavily in this in recent years, including through the Teacher Agenda and the sectoral agreements. We have literally done so, with hundreds of millions for, among other things, better guidance from novice teachers. I also mention the professional development of teachers through the Teachers' Fair and other educational offerings. I also mention time and space for teachers for intervision and peer review. Mr Van Meenen asked me what more I will do in the future in the area of professionalisation of teachers. He mentioned in particular the freeing of time. He asked this in response to the letter I sent with a number of scenarios for the elaboration of his and Mrs Ypma's motion on more time for teachers. This was specifically about reducing teaching tasks from 25 to 20 hours per week. I want to look seriously at the possibilities together with parties in the field. That is how Mr Van Meenen should read my letter. This also applies to the test we started to create more time for teachers in twenty schools in neighbourhoods with many disadvantaged pupils. This was part of the Action Plan on Equal Opportunities. See here where the shoe wrings. Reducing teaching tasks for teachers is a costly task. The test at those 20 schools already cost 3 million euros. If you do this for all schools in the Netherlands, the costs will rise. In the letter I sent to the Chamber, I calculated that this cost 1.8 billion. Now Mr Van Meenen likes to play nice weather here, but he hasn't delivered that amount yet. Mr Van Meenen said in his contribution that D66 wants to invest 1 billion more in education. I have taken the counter-budget of D66 once again, but I really couldn't find that in it. I have not yet come across the amendment to this effect, an additional 1 billion for education. So I'm anxious to wait. The same applies to the plans of Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Siderius of the Socialist Party for the introduction of The Hague class size standards. Apart from the fact that I do not believe in this kind of micromanagement from The Hague, I say that there is also a lack of a credible plan here to cover the costs involved. I am now used to the fact that this paragraph is mostly missing from the Socialist Party. It was very funny. I took the plan. Liberals always go to the back of the plan, because there is the financial paragraph. I'll show the Chamber what it looks like: the logo is there, but otherwise it's fucking empty. I'm used to that from the SP, but from a party like D66 I really expected a bit more solidity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u237	I understand that this is a difficult idea for the Secretary of State, but on 15 March we are holding elections. We've got an election program that includes a billion dollars. We will also provide figures to the Central Planning Bureau. That 1 billion for the teacher's time is also included. I would have liked to have tabled an amendment today, but I had the feeling that it would not make it. That is why it is good that there are elections. This is exactly the same for the initiative on small classes. We know how the Secretary of State looks at that. That's a dead end in this cabinet period. But the Secretary of State can assume that this will be fully covered in our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u238	I feel like I've been walking around in the wrong book these past few days. After all, we have not had an election debate, but we have been discussing the 2017 budget for education in recent days. I hear Mr Van Meenen making all kinds of promises, such as smaller classes and more time for teachers, but then you also have to take care of the money. What Mr Van Meenen is doing here is simply shouting popular things, because that's what it is of course. Everyone likes that: small classes are popular with parents, more time for teachers does very well with them. But Mr Van Meenen is really turning his eyes on these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u239	For the small classes, we have tabled an orderly bill. We are going to deal with that here, but the Secretary of State is already getting ahead of it. I find that odd. In addition, a motion was adopted in June in which the Chamber indicated that the teaching task should be reduced. Then it is very special to note on 3 November that the Secretary of State intends to talk to all kinds of parties. What's he been doing for the past five months? That conversation could have taken place a long time ago, but it didn't. It worries me that this Secretary of State just doesn't want that. He was also fiercely opposed to the motion. That is why it is good that there are elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u240	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u241	Mr Van Meenen is becoming more and more like the Wilders of Education. These are populist things: calling for teachers' teaching tasks to be reduced from 25 to 20 hours, without adding a penny. This is just populism: yelling fun things, sending Twitter messages to the world like: look, look, I'm the hero of education! If he's really gonna put on big pants, he's really gonna have to throw in the pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u242	Mr Van Meenen can respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u243	I think so. The Secretary of State is really falling to a level I'm not used to. I really think of it as an insult. I hope he will apologize again later, because I do not wish to be compared with this particular colleague. Apart from that, I have just spoken about the motion adopted in June. That's an assignment to the Secretary of State. That's not a noncommittal question, but he should have. There should have been a letter by now, stating exactly what it takes. That was part of the investigation. But it's not there. No, it's a letter saying we're gonna talk. Very nice! We deliver and we will do so in our election programme. That's what we stand for. If I am blamed here that part of my contribution has been made in the light of the forthcoming elections, then I think that we are all doing so here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u245	My party leader is being addressed, so I'd like to respond. I would like to say that I find D66 much more populist than Mr Wilders. We are always right on all our subjects, with a delay of two or three years. But we're getting right and D66 isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u246	You've made your point. The same applies to Mr Van Meenen and also to the Secretary of State. I'd like to ask him to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u247	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen is placing me with impossible tasks. He thinks that the Secretary of State should just take care of it without giving one clue. There's no extra euro. He has not begun to indicate whether it should come from the length or from the width. This is just not real.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u248	I am not giving the Secretary of State any instructions; that is what the Chamber does, in a majority. That's a really big difference. I wish I could give the Secretary of State an order, but it's not like that. So the Chamber gave him that order. If he's handling assignments from the Chamber like that... Well, then that's special to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u249	I suggest that the Secretary of State conclude now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u250	I thank the Chamber for the motion, but I note that there was no money machine. The final question is that of Mr Grashoff on the opportunities for teachers to grow in primary education. I think that is an important theme. I consider serious career paths and opportunities for teachers to be very important. We do not want teachers to have to become directors in order to be able to make a career; we want them to be able to do the same for the classroom. But it is not the case that there is no growth potential in the wage structure of primary education. The collective agreement in primary education is based on the LC salary scale. However, it is not being used sufficiently. The procedure for appointing teachers in this scale is the responsibility of the school authorities. In the Po sector, objectives have been set together with the social partners, including the function mix, including the number of teachers with an LC scale. I note that this objective has not yet been achieved, despite the fact that there is room for it. Mr Grashoff has a point there. In fact, this also applies to the objective of the share of the LB scale agreed by the social partners. My proposal would be to continue to encourage the social partners and employers to make real progress on the ambitions of the Learning Power Action Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u251	Thank you. I think you're done now. One more question from Mr Grashoff before the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u252	A question about that last, relevant, point. We didn't pay a lot of attention to that for nothing. I see a logic in the answer given by the Secretary of State, but it is a little too easy for me. We share the view that this growth must come about. So if we all think that this is important, but we see that primary education has a big problem and that this problem is going to get much bigger, then we cannot stop saying that we do have a few agreements but that nothing will happen. Then we really need to take action. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to take real action now. We have proposed to start an experiment. We have even tabled an amendment to that effect. School boards don't just do that; there's something behind that. We need to break that. We need to take that concretely in the head for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u253	I would very much like to discuss this with Mr Grashoff. I believe that the research that Mr Duisenberg has asked about how this function mix works in both a quantitative and a qualitative sense can help in this respect. We have had research carried out on this and that is almost complete. I am sending that to the Chamber for the discussion we are about to have on the progress of the teacher agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u254	When will you send that to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u255	I think over the course of this month. I don't see any frightened faces in the public service box right now, so I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u256	Now comes a brief question from Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u257	I would like to return to the written answers on the VO-HO networks and the scientific bottlenecks. I think the Minister has already said something about this. From the answers of both the Minister and the Secretary of State, I have first of all understood that both initiatives are supported by the heads of government. So they're both saying we're gonna go through with it. The universities have agreements on that. However, I also get reports that the university has made their funding dependent on funding from OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u258	It's two things. The meetings with the Beta Techniek Platform about the VO-HO networks have been held this week. I think that is to the satisfaction of both sides. I was surprised at the petition, which was triggered by the universities among others, that OCW should contribute more to the science nodes in the future. We made very clear agreements on this with the universities a few years ago. OCW would pay for a run-up of a number of years this state would be black-and-white and then the universities would take over the funding of these nodes. This was also discussed with us. We will also continue to appeal to the VSNU. As far as I am concerned, these nodes continue, but it is also very clear who has to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u259	I would like to come back to the VO-HO networks. Do I understand correctly that the subsidy for this is gone in 2017 or is it going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u260	There's gonna be one. That's what we agreed on this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u261	We now move on to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u262	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his intensive study of the SP note, as I have just noted. He made a little populist joke about it, but we forgive him. It's late at night, and there's got to be a laugh. We will see each other again on 15 March! There is a growing gap in society and education. The inspection has established this and I have devoted much of my first term to this. The rulers really need to scratch their heads again, because with a tip of 25 million in the last few months before the cabinet leaves, you won't get there. I would say: take a closer look at the financial paragraph of the SP plan, because there are firm proposals in it. There really has to be a zero! Even on such a small point as the obligation of acceptance in education, the fact that we give all children access to all schools is not something that the cabinet wants to give way and it prefers to remain cozy, together with the Christian Union and the SGP. These are valued parties, but about the only ones left in this Chamber who reject that acceptance obligation. That's seven seats. Cabinet, think about it again and as long as you do not do so, the Chamber itself will take action, as I said! In a few weeks, that's really gonna have to happen. That bill's just there. I'm going to move on to my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas school boards receive the national contribution in the form of lump sum payments;]] [[considers that school establishments within a school board should have as much control as possible over how the budget is spent;]] [[calls on the Government to organise a pilot which pays the State contribution directly to the school establishment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are schools asking hundreds and sometimes even thousands of euros for voluntary parental contributions;]] [[considers that a high parental contribution is undesirable as it restricts the accessibility of schools to pupils of low-income parents and thereby enhances the division in education;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with all relevant actors in primary and secondary education, to set a limit on the voluntary parental contribution and to inform the Court before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current financing of technical VMBO is insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with VNO-NCW, SMEs-Netherlands, the technical branches and technical platforms of VMBO, to establish a fund for the establishment of good technical profiles in schools and to establish a more adequate funding factor when reviewing the financing of secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-17]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Vermue. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-18]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u263	My final motion is about another hot topic, the high tuition fees for a second study. Anyone in favour of lifelong learning should support this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas universities and colleges of higher education often ask for towering tuition fees for a second study;]] [[noting that the number of students attending a second study has decreased by one third over the last five years;]] [[Whereas the structure of the rate for a second study is often opaque;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to maximize tuition fees for a second study (bachelor/master) and to inform the Chamber by spring 2017 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u264	I see I have one minute and 33 seconds left. I ask the Minister to draw up her agenda, because her embrace of the UvA referendum led to good reactions in Amsterdam. I can tell the Minister that we received an invitation for Wednesday 23 November. On that day, the UvA referendum will start to see how to get more democracy at the university. That is a great achievement. Students can choose from four scenarios. I have 58 seconds to explain those four scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u265	You can also choose to leave that time to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u266	I know, Chairman, I know; I'm kidding. It would be great if the Minister and the undersigned would go to Amsterdam on 23 November to talk about that referendum and the possibilities of organising more control and democracy there. I'll lock up and have 37 seconds left. That's a gift to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u267	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and Secretary of State for their reply and also for their four-year term as directors. It is not over yet, but at least we are seeing more challenging education on all fronts. On behalf of the VVD I would like to thank both directors for that. I would also like to thank my colleagues for four years of interesting budget debates with passion for education. I would like to discuss a few final issues in connection with the debate. I'll start with the fixus. The Minister responded to the call made by myself, Mr Rog and a number of other colleagues to address the problem of the capacity fixus at technical universities. If it is such a small problem, it must certainly be solved. According to my information, this should be done before 1 December. I hope to get that message in the second term, but just to be safe, Mr Rog has a motion ready with my name on it as well. Another point is the LOB. The fallout remains dramatically high. We talked about that, so let's really take the attack on failure to a higher level. The approach is really too varied, both in schools and in universities and colleges of higher education; that came up a bit in the debate with the Minister. In many places things are going well and the fall-out is going down, but it is important to make sure that it goes well everywhere and that the level goes up everywhere. That is why we, the PvdA and the CDA want to embrace the action plan drawn up by ISO, LAKS, JOB and NVS-NVL. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas too many young people are too often involved in further education or training because they have not been properly prepared for the choice of study and information on the supply;]] [[Whereas there are examples in both secondary and secondary education where career guidance and information are well regulated, but due to the lack of minimum national standards there are too many young people who are not well prepared;]] [[noting that ISO, LAKS, JOB and NVS-NVL, as a result of the study selection checklist, have made a good move towards national standards;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the relevant organisations, the VO Council and all sectorial organisations in further education, to establish national standards to meet minimum career guidance, study guidance and study choice activities, and to share their impact with the Chamber for the May 2017 period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Duisenberg, Mr Rog and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u268	Yesterday we had the first deadline for this debate. Mr Bishop has told us some liberal history, for which I am grateful. We have already talked about Mr Thorbecke and Mr Cort van der Linden, two liberal gentlemen who have meant a lot for education. Especially for the Minister, I would like to add a third person, an important woman. In the 40's and 50's of the last century, MP Adriana Fortanier-de-Wild was spokesperson for the VVD. In a portrait, in honor of her farewell after eleven years of Parliamentary membership, she was called "the champion for better education." Like now, they and the VVD are already committed to greater differentiation. She said: a small people like ours must have the best education to be able to maintain themselves; by means of core and elective courses and differentiated diplomas one would have gone a long way further. At that time, in the 40's and 50's, she criticized progress in this area. About this differentiation, she added: until now, nothing has been done but patchwork. As far as differentiation is concerned, we have seen and over the last two days we have heard that great steps have been taken. But today's patchwork is frustrating me. It is also frustrating to the directors and many people inside and outside the Chamber that the real improvement in lifelong learning is too long overdue. We have to get away from what we've been calling here. We're gonna spend the rest of our lives playing tricks. We have to go to a completely different learning culture in which 17 million Dutch learn new things every day. Just like then, it is essential for our country as a whole to maintain our earning ability and thus our prosperity, but also for all those individual Dutch people who understandably worry about their place in society and the economy of the future. Our education debates are very often about the education that students and students enjoy in the beginning of their lives. But what do we offer those 12 million people who learn a lifetime? What do we offer the administrative employee, the waltz operator, the hairdresser and the desktop designer who want or have to make a change in their lives? Reschooling and sub-schooling are the new guarantees in a changing world. I know everyone here in this room shares that with me. I also know that everyone here shares my frustration that things are going too slowly. This has been expressed by everyone here in debates. Everyone of us has taken initiatives from that point of view. I myself mentioned in this debate the personal education budget as a direction, but there are also the learning rights, which I have heard from Mr Bruins, the vouchers of Mr Van Meenen and Mr Grashoff and Mr Mohandis' credit. Those are all steps that way. Mr Rog mentioned in his term the shift in the age limit for lifelong learning credit. Everyone's doing their thing. Think of what will happen if we do not focus all our efforts on initial education in the first roughly 25 years, but bring this more into balance with educational opportunities in the next 50 to 75 years. That is an important and much larger period. Think about what happens if we do not think in a box of'social security' and in a box of 'education', but actually manage to bridge the gap here. How much more self-confidence and certainty would that give people? It is a question of total action and coherence. My question is: can we now join forces in this Chamber to take more concrete steps in the coming years that will benefit the Netherlands? I think that this is a perfect time to move this issue to a higher level with a group of experienced MPs in the upcoming cabinet period. In the coming weeks there will be several studies on lifelong learning. There will be studies from the ESC and from the Commission-Sap. The last one's for the MBO. The report of the Education Council has also recently been published. I would very much like to receive a substantive response from the cabinet. Then, as a standing committee, by organising a wide-ranging hearing, let us lay the foundations for lifelong learning that goes beyond party politics and also goes beyond portfolio boundaries. This is how we really push lifelong learning over the next few years. I hope, and I am asking you to do so here in the last budgetary debate of this period, that colleagues will join me in picking up that glove. If we succeed in becoming a country of confident people who know what they can do and who are given the means to continue to develop, then we need not be afraid of change. Then we can embrace and drive the change. And then we can make sure that for our country and for all the people who live here, the best time is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u269	Mr Grashoff, I see you want to interrupt. You also have a time limit in which you can say a lot. I'll allow a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u270	There is an important issue in this debate on which I would like to put another question. This concerns the acceptance obligation and Article 23. In my view, we have heard a somewhat surprising statement by the Secretary of State. We have heard all kinds of comments from people from different parties in the corridors, including those from Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u271	And now the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u272	My question is whether Mr Duisenberg would like to point out to us the position of the VVD. Is the VVD for or against the acceptance obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u273	I think it's been announced that there's going to be a bill. I think it would be best if we had that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u274	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for the answer and the good debate. It was an extremely substantive debate. I would also like to thank the rulers, in particular, for their own authentic way in which they addressed Article 23 and the freedom of education. I like to hear that. I'm very happy about that. I am also grateful for the answers on the networks in secondary education and higher education. I just tore up another motion. This also applies to the point around the links vmbo/mbo. I welcome what the directors are going to do on that front and I am also extremely curious about how that will work out and I am looking forward to the evaluation. I myself or anyone else in my group will, at any rate, be critical of this at any time in two years' time when we have the outcome of this experiment. Mr Duisenberg has tabled a motion on attack on Uitval. I am a co-signatory of that motion and, for the sake of clarity, I agree with what he has said. I have four more motions of my own. The first motion is about students with disabilities. I've made motions on that before. I am now trying to join an initiative of the coalition parties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that students with disabilities, severe illness, pregnancy, disability, chronic illness or special family conditions are often unable to complete their studies in nominal time and the financial support from the profiling fund may vary significantly from institution to institution;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet has launched a test of "paying per credit";]] [[calls on the Government to allow students who are longer on their studies due to force majeure, when caused by the above-mentioned special circumstances of a structural nature, to pay per credit;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u275	I have often tabled motions on lifelong learning and on 55-plussers who cannot make use of lifelong learning credit. I am now trying to join with an up-to-date development. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has recently been announced that the AOW age will move by three months from 2021 for people born after 1954;]] [[noting that the number of people over 55 participating in formal training is lagging behind other workers;]] [[noting that 55-plussers are not allowed to use lifelong learning credit;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the age limit for lifelong learning credit is equal to the increase in the AOW age;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u276	I have spent the last week together with Mr Duisenberg to stand up for the technical universities. Mr Duisenberg has just indicated that a small problem needs to be resolved. We'll help the Minister with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that technical universities are considering setting up a capacity fixus for 12 training courses;]] [[Considering that, as part of the Technics Pact, an ambition has been agreed between government, educational institutions and declining professions to reach four out of ten graduates in beta and technological training by 2025;]] [[Considers that investment in recent years through the Technics Pact, the Betatechnic Platform and many others involved in education has led to a higher proportion of pupils and students who opt for beta-training and technological training and that a capacity fixus is completely illogical;]] [[Calls on the Government, with the VSNU and in particular with the 4TU Co-operation Group, to reach a solution before 1 December 2016 for the envisaged capacity fixi in the academic year starting September 2017;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the financial bottlenecks and capacity bottlenecks at 4TU and to inform the Court in spring 2017;]] [[Invites the Government to launch an in-depth independent study into the overall funding system of universities and to inform the Court of 15 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Duisenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u277	I'll read my final motion right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Education Inspectorate notes that schools are still not systematically engaged in civic education and that specifically "critical thinking" is under-exposed;]] [[Whereas VMBO students who pass to the HAVO receive at least one additional year of social education, but this is not a compulsory subject in the MBO and does not apply to it;]] [[Whereas knowledge of our democratic rule of law, reflection and discussion of controversial issues and learning to discuss are of great value in order to participate successfully in our society and democratic institutions;]] [[invites the government, in consultation with at least the Dutch Association of Teachers Society (NVLM), the Network Citizenship of the MBO Council, the Practorate Citizenship and the Youth Organisation Vocational Education (JOB), to arrive at:]] [[anchoring critical thinking skills and human rights in line with social studies in VMBO, as an integral part of the obligation for schools to offer citizenship education and to assess the need for further adaptation of the Web Exam Decision;]] [[a proposal on how teachers in the MBO are optimally prepared and supported to give these lessons;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of this matter before the summer of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u278	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Cabinet for its first-term response. Too often the origin of a child determines the chances it gets in life. The Secretary of State also mentioned this in his speech. The Labour Party finds this unacceptable. So who amazes me? The Secretary of State wants to participate in a legal right of transit. Positive, you'd think. He thus suggests equal opportunities, but then applies various clauses, creates barriers and thereby maintains thresholds. Young people who have something in common should never be excluded from the labour market if they have obtained their diploma. Abolishing the admission code does not mean integrating the thresholds into the vmbo. Education that connects, a plan of action to get together and thus give young people a chance to become the best edition of themselves: that is what we support. The Secretary of State is going to work out the right of transit, but we want to ensure that no new exclusion is created on the road there. A diploma that young people can be proud of, without any strings attached, is the starting point. That is why I am tabling a motion calling for a legal anchoring of the right of transit. In this way, the Chamber can monitor the implementation: equal opportunities for all children, including a 6.7 on their diploma. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the case of cross-country nationals with a VMBO-TL diploma, haboschools use an admission code with an agreement that the figure average on the diploma must be at least 6,8;]] [[Whereas, in many cases, also streamers with a lower rate average than a 6.8 would be able to successfully complete the training, especially as a tailor-made and personalised accompaniment;]] [[Considers that having a diploma at vmbo-tl/gl level should give access to the HAVO;]] [[calls on the Government to establish in the law a flow-through right from vmbo-tl to havo and to offer a more tailor-made and accompaniment perspective on a smooth and promising flow from vmbo to havo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Vermue, Mr Grashoff, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Kuzu and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u279	Now that this motion is part of the debate, I have a question on it. Does this mean that applicants demand a 100% guarantee that anyone who has a diploma, with any average, can always claim one-on-one the right to go to further education? Is that exactly what the motion is asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u280	Exactly. In my opinion, Mr Rog also agreed with his party on 7 October 2015, namely the motion: "calls on the government to give pupils with a VMBO-TL and VMBO-GL diploma the right to move on to the HAVO'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u281	Finally, Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u282	That's exactly why I'm asking. Because I can live with that operative. I do believe that we should give everyone the right to do so, but we must look at what is good for the child. That is, I think, something other than an absolute right without a condition being attached to it in any way. But it's interesting. I welcome the fact that we know exactly what the operative part means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u283	Please continue, Mrs Vermue. You were ready? I shall then give the floor to Mr Mohandis on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u284	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. Like Mr Duisenberg, I look back on a good debate. Rog rightly referred to a very substantive debate. I also look back at a period of hard work by many. Big changes have been brought about, changes that have been discussed for a long time. There was the big reform when it comes to the study advance. Much has been said about this, not only during this debate but also over the last four years. It is also remarkable that it has succeeded in doing so with broad support. It was not a reform ink that was implemented with one seat difference, so that after the next elections everything is called into question again. It was precisely a sustainable change that gives security to students and institutions to ensure good education for future generations. But there have also been very different developments in the past period. I've already mentioned something in my first term that I'm very proud of. I keep telling you how great it is to see, on 1 January 2017, how hundreds of thousands of mbos can simply travel from home to study place without losing hundreds of euros a month when they just have to travel in order to learn and get a starting qualification. My colleague Duisenberg has just read a fine motion from which I am a co-subscriber. I really want to emphasise that there are many problems in higher education and that we rightly often talk about accessibility. But if the percentages of drop-out rates in higher education were to apply in secondary education, the Netherlands would be too small. It is therefore essential that we make every effort to help, support, guide young people in making the right choice. That must be done much more than is happening now. It's complicated enough as it is. That is why it is a good thing that many student organisations are jumping over their own shadows in this respect too, and are jointly pursuing this ambition. That's what they do with political parties. They think about a lot of different points, but they say at this point: we're just gonna do this. I come to citizenship and social studies. In the debate on this matter with the Minister, I have already made it very clear that things are not going well everywhere. But the important thing is that there are institutions that are ticking this off. They do it because they have to. At these institutions these subjects are not given with the passion that is needed and with the fixed character you can expect because it is necessary for many MBOs to acquire all kinds of social studies. I welcome the motion. Not only is my name underneath it, but I would also strongly recommend from this place that the Chamber support this motion. Let's give that broad assignment to organize this well to all those organisations in the MBO. I also see a fine motion by Mr Van Dijk, with whom I do not propose very often. But this covered motion is well thought out. There's also a good operative part in it. No, maybe this is a little lame. I would also like to say the following about this motion. In 2013 I tabled a motion, together with Mr Rog, calling for transparency in the construction of these institutional college fees. Those towering tuition fees are always a thorn in our eye. I've asked the Minister before to see how you can maximize it. I think it is very important that we now say in the Chamber: as far as we are concerned, the norm is maximized, but look at how you organize it in an orderly manner. I also say that we should not opt for one maximum, because then we will grow to the highest maximum. We're gonna have to look at this by training. How much does a law education cost on average? How much does medical education cost? Those institutional rates are quite different. However, please, let us not accept that they are far above the real cost. That is why I supported the submission of this proposal. Mr Bruins speaks after me, so I will not say too much about the proposal he will make on my behalf about the emancipating task and the linking with it of the financing of institutions. It cannot be the case that institutions that make every effort to give side-intromers or stackers a chance in higher education are discouraged by problems of funding. I therefore wholeheartedly support the initiative. Mr Bruins will be tabling a motion on my behalf shortly. I look back at a nice debate in which it was about equal opportunities. Sometimes I get to teach a guest lesson at a VMBO or MBO school. Then I often hear: sir, you have been on vmbo and are now in the Chamber, so I can. That's the beauty of our Dutch education system. That story is still not told enough, not only by me, but by many who are supposed to tell that story. Many young people have dreams, but often experience a glass ceiling while that ceiling is not there at all. It's about how we make young people feel like they're getting the best out of themselves. I will continue to do so in the coming period. There are too many young people who dream and for whom opportunities are not self-evident, but who do have everything they can to make the most of themselves. In the end, that's how you're working on a connected society. I would also like to thank all the support, all the officials who have been watching this debate for thinking along, for writing quickly and for all their opinions. They too, of course, deserve all the support and compliments for the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u285	You forgot to thank Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u286	That's what I did in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u287	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But I wanted to say that Mr Mohandis' story is beautiful. Fortunately, there are many more stories like that and he's not the only one telling it. Because I tell his story in a lot of places. We should all do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u288	Thank you. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u289	Mr. Chairman. After this group hug, we move back to reality. I don't have a lot of time, so I'm gonna take off right away, but of course after thanking the rulers for their comprehensive response. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools in primary and secondary education in the curriculum should pay sufficient attention to Dutch identity, culture and history;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the key objective 38 of the "Guidelines on yourself and the world" section in such a way that the text reads: "In this field of learning, students orient themselves on their own, on how people interact with each other, how they solve problems and how they give meaning and meaning to their existence. Students focus on the natural environment and on phenomena that occur in it. Students focus on Dutch identity, culture and history. Students also focus on the world from that Dutch perspective, close to, far away, then and now and make use of the Dutch cultural heritage with emphasis on the world economy,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that our flag is the symbol of our shared values, institutions and history;]] [[Whereas these should be given priority in Dutch education;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that fixed moments are determined at every Dutch po- and vo-school at which our flag is raised together and the national anthem is sung,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is essential that school advice in primary education and admission and placement in secondary education is successful;]] [[having noted that a larger number of updated opinions raises organisational problems in the vo;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[Considers that the central final test is an objective matching instrument for admission and placement in the vo;]] [[invites the government to plan the (deduction) date for the central final test in the school year in such a way that the results are in place before the entry into secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-27]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-28]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u290	Well, that's pretty spacious. I see the Secretary of State nodding approval. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the sneaking introduction of English, not only as a language of instruction, but even as a language of instruction in higher education, does not correspond to the law, laying down provisions on higher education and scientific research (Article 7.2);]] [[noting that research clearly shows that the use of a foreign language as an instructional language has a negative impact on the quality of the teaching process;]] [[Considers that our Dutch education in this way actively contributes to the degradation of Dutch as lingua franca and as a scientific language;]] [[calls on the Government to restore the position of Dutch as a language of instruction in higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that numerus fixus in higher education applies within a number of courses both to Dutch and international students, thus limiting the training capacity for Dutch students;]] [[noting that 73% of international students return to their country of origin after completion of the training;]] [[considers that internationalisation should not be at the expense of the capacities, qualities and potential of the Dutch student;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct higher education to give priority to Dutch students in the case of numerus-fixus policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-30]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u291	Mr. Chairman. Over 37 years ago, I became a teacher to work on opportunities for children, for students. For exactly the same reason, four years ago, I became a Member of Parliament, precisely because I was concerned about that. Then it is quite special in itself when you are called "the Wilders of Education." I can only hope that the Secretary of State will be relieved. I can also imagine that he needs some relief, because we see it happening again today with the right of transit: he doesn't want it, but it does happen. That's kind of the history of the past four years. The Secretary of State has repeatedly stumbled upon by the Chamber. Then it'll have to come out once in a while. No problem. I've been through enough in my life not to wake up. It's also wrong. D66 has taken responsibility for an additional EUR 500 million investment in primary, secondary and MBO education. We have taken responsibility for a billion-dollar investment in higher education. Over and over again, we have taken responsibility for the reform agenda of this cabinet and for final budgets. Then it's a big deal when you're accused of not being properly covered and all. I would like to remind the Secretary of State and the Cabinet once again that today we have mainly discussed this issue of opportunities in education, and that will not leave us alone. This will also be a major issue in the context of education in the elections. In that light, I also spoke today. I hope that, except for the Secretary of State, no one will blame me for that. I'm gonna keep doing it, because chances for kids, that's why I'm here. I have four motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the social loan and reimbursement conditions within the study advance ensure that monthly charges are lower on reimbursement and that the possibility of buying a house with a study debt becomes easier;]] [[calls on the Government to give students who are still subject to old loan and refund conditions the option to opt for the loan and refund conditions as they apply within the study advance;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u292	The second motion is about a group I've been worried about for a long time. I deliberately asked the Minister to come forward with her picture of the students with disabilities in the light of all the measures they are dealing with. This is not only the study advance, but also, above all, the fact that the level of benefits varies from one municipality to another. According to the letter, the Minister shares this concern, but for the time being she does nothing. That is not acceptable to me and to my group, hence the next motion. By the way, I have also signed a motion which will be tabled by Mr Bruins shortly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the financial contribution for students with disabilities varies widely between different municipalities, namely between €30 and €380, and therefore depends on the municipality in which students live;]] [[calls on the Government to determine the level of a basic amount for the municipal allowance and to introduce a range of €50 between which these allowances may differ,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u293	The next motion concerns the Model European Parliament. This is an important and interesting phenomenon that threatens to die. We would be very sorry to hear that. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the grant to the Montesquieu Institute has been discontinued and that it is no longer possible to guarantee the continued existence of the Model European Parliament (MEP);]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to ensure the continued existence of the MEP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u294	My final motion also concerns the provision of opportunities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a CJP cultural card that can buy secondary schools for their students and which allows them to receive a discount on all kinds of cultural activities;]] [[noting that this does not yet exist for primary education;]] [[Whereas it is good if children are given the opportunity to get into contact with culture at an early age;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities and costs of making the CJP Culture Card available for primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u295	You may ask one short question, Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u296	I have a question on the motion asking the government to extend the reimbursement conditions of the study advance to the group that received or received the basic grant. That's pretty complicated. What exactly does Mr Van Meenen mean? If you are in an annuity system of redemption and have 5 years to go to pay off the total amount, should that be taken back to 35 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u297	There's nothing to do. The purpose of this motion is that students should be given the option of staying either in the old regime or in the new regime. All kinds of considerations can play a role in this, but this motion states that they should be able to get that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u298	One more question to tighten it up. It may be that someone has three or two years to go before he has repaid the whole amount. In the old system, it's after 15 years. That person could take another 35 years, while he only has two years to go. That is the consequence of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u299	It's not worked out in detail. That will not happen until this motion has been taken, of course. However, you could reason that 12 years of those 35 have been over at that time. Besides, I would expect someone who's so far away from making that switch at all. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u300	Mr Van Meenen defended the loan system again during this budget debate. There are 9,000 students less at HBO. In the last two years, there have been ten motions and amendments from the SP, the Christian Union and the CDA about students with disabilities. They were all categorically voted out by D66 and now Mr Van Meenen comes forward with motions for resolutions. He has filed one and he has announced that he will join another motion. Does Mr Van Meenen recognise that the loan system has extremely serious effects for this group of young people? Does it therefore concern Mr Van Meenen that 20% of young people with disabilities did not study in HBO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u301	Questions really have to be about the motions. You should not go back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u302	This motion is the follow-up to a motion that I tabled in June with the other 'loan system parties', just to use a new term. It asked for an investigation. That investigation has come to light. For me, this is the result of it. All the loan system parties have always said: if students get into trouble, we must do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u304	These students may not only be affected by the loan system, but also by the fact that the benefit per municipality is so different. That's what my motion is about now. Mr Bruins will be tabling a motion to fix that other point. I therefore call on the Members of the loan system to say what...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u305	Mr Van Meenen, this debate has been held very often. It's really just about the motion. We shouldn't reopen the discussion right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u306	I have a question on the motion on the conversion of these loans. What are the financial consequences of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u307	These financial consequences will occur in 2050. That is in 34 years; 35 years after the introduction of the loan system. Then there will be a financial effect as a result of the change in the refund. Now, 34 years in advance, that's estimated at 115 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u308	That's the wrong answer, but it's an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u309	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday in my first term I launched the website mijnschoolisbijonder.nl, with the invitation to schools to tell on our website why a school is so special. Elementary school De Regenboog from Reeuwijk sent a small message. A teacher wrote: "My school is special because we are a small society together, in which honesty, kindness, humour and love for each other are paramount. I hope that all these special children at my special school will take this with us in their future and that we, as teachers, will be able to look at each other in fifteen years' time and conclude that, because of our good concerns, we have contributed a bit to a beautiful society." I would like to thank the two directors present for the way in which they have once again protected special education and explained the meaning and value of Article 23, which was the great article of the Constitution which was so long in the struggle and which has been going on for so long and gives us that excellent education system. I shall put to the vote a motion which has been held on learning rights. The Minister said at the time that this motion was very similar to what she was preparing. I hope that my motion will outline a final picture or give a vision of where it can go with those vouchers, those learning rights or those training grants, and that they can count on a majority in the Chamber and the Minister's support. I have also tabled an amendment on a fund for VMBO technology, which Mr Van Dijk has already mentioned. I think I found a good cover for that. With that, I hope to achieve a dream that I share with the Secretary of State. Last spring we said to each other in a debate: if every VMBO student can choose the direction he or she wants, within cycling distance, 15 to 20 km, that would be wonderful, wouldn't it? We see that this is going to be very difficult with technology. I am thinking in particular of the provinces of Drenthe, Groningen and Zeeland. I hope that my amendment will help to solve the main problems. It takes at least ten times more than I ask, but I thought, let me keep it modest. I have four motions I'd like to read. The first one is about vmbo technology. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that apprenticeship numbers in VMBO technology are decreasing and that the supply of technical profiles is declining and fragmented in different regions;]] [[noting that the introduction of the new profile structure creates additional costs for schools, including the purchase of equipment, materials and equipment for practical premises;]] [[noting that schools have difficulty offering the full width of the new PIE profile if they did not previously offer the three underlying directions;]] [[considers that the supply of VMBO technology in the Netherlands should be maintained;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with VMBO schools and technical industry, to identify short-term technical VMBO bottlenecks, to resolve acute bottlenecks by introducing the broad profiles and to take the lead to maintain the technical VMBO throughout the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u310	We now come to the motion announced by Mr Mohandis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that equal opportunities in education, in particular with the MBO-hbo-wo transitory system, is a broad shared ambition;]] [[Whereas the financing of higher education puts increasing pressure on the support and guidance of "stockholders" including groups such as side-intromers;]] [[Whereas limited success in studies among talented "stoppers" undermines both the success of studies and the quality of MBO, HBO and WO;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with universities, colleges and student organisations, to introduce a programme of additional support and guidance for "stackholders" and inclusive groups such as side-intromers in higher education, and to involve this in the budgetary research and action plan on equal opportunities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, before the introduction of the study advance, students with disabilities received an additional year's performance grant of €3,433.80, but that this financial support has been replaced by a lower remission of €1,200;]] [[Considering that the 2015-2016 Ministry of Education's Policy Monitor shows that students with disabilities are less likely to influx and have a higher risk of failure, that their chances of study delay are higher and that they have more difficulty finding an internship or job, which makes it more risky to start a study;]] [[Considers that students with disabilities are entitled to equal opportunities and reasonable adjustments to inclusive education;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the amount of remission for students with disabilities to €3,433.80,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Mohandis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-37]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u311	Can I ask Mr Bruins whether the operative part of the motion is about the same as the explanatory statement on Amendment No 2. 11 (34035) tabled by his colleague Mrs Schouten in 2014 and voted against by Mr Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u312	I gotta get this out of my head, 'cause that took place before I got into the room. I suspect that the amendment was about an allowance, while this motion is about a waiver. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u313	Mr Van Meenen probably knows what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u314	It was about forgiveness for students with disabilities or chronic illness. It's exactly the same formulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u315	Then the Christian Union is at least consistent. That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u316	I can explain that very well, Mr. Chairman. At that time we didn't know what the effects would be. We never take measures until we know the effect. Now we know that and then we take that measure exactly as it was agreed at the time. That is something other than what Mr Rog has to explain about the situation just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u317	I do object to the idea that we now know exactly what the effects are. Let me fully agree with the plea that we must do everything we can to ensure that higher education is accessible to students with disabilities. It's gonna take a lot more than that. We do not yet know exactly what measures are helping to support this group. In the letter we received from the Minister last Friday, that was also said. If we know for sure what the effects are, you can take targeted measures. I would like to point out to Mr Bruins that this proposal was tabled earlier by his colleague Mr Schouten. At the time, we were very conscious in saying that we would first wait for the exact effects. If these effects are final, Mr Bruins will find me by his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u318	Thank you very much, Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u319	However, I dispute that we can now assume that the picture is final. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u320	Thank you. Please continue, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u321	Yes. That images are not definitive, I share with Mr Mohandis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the results of the central final test (and alternative final tests) for primary education are used as a means of determining the quality of primary schools, whereas the pupil weight related to the educational level of parents is the only real correction to the result;]] [[Whereas the final test gives a limited picture of the possibilities of a pupil and is not intended and developed to determine the quality of education;]] [[Whereas the apprenticeship weight system has lost its value and is, in fact, unreliable as a correction;]] [[Whereas the use of this system sometimes causes primary schools to receive the "weak" qualification from the inspection;]] [[Whereas the exception that children with an IQ below 80 are not included in the test does not do justice to the use of schools to achieve appropriate education for a large group of pupils;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the assessment of the quality of schools on the basis of the average results of the central final test (and alternative final tests) for primary education until a clear and unambiguous system has been developed that does justice to the pupil, the appropriate education and the deployment of primary schools,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Rog and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u322	Mr. Chairman. This debate focused on equality of opportunity or inequality in education at important moments. It is good that this is being debated and it is good that I am told by the Cabinet and the Minister and the Secretary of State that they are concerned about this and that they want to take action on it. But it is a debate that we have been having for a long time, especially in the case of primary and secondary education, on which all the necessary motions have been adopted and the necessary statements have been made by the Chamber. I have to say that I do not think that this Secretary of State deals purely with the Court's statements on this matter, certainly not on the law of transit, but also on the broad classes of bridges. I feel pretty sure I'm being sent in with a brat in the reeds. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we will have to tighten the reins on this point, hoping that there is still a clear majority in the Chamber for this. We really need to act on this. This must not only be confessed by mouth, but also by actual and concrete actions. On that basis, I would like to have signed Mrs Vermue's motion on the right of transit, which is virtually identical to my own motion last year, but now it says that it must also be legally anchored. Last year, there was no difference in opinion that this was a real right, resulting from a diploma without additional requirements. That's it now. I'm glad this is confirmed. I hope that Mr Rog is as wise as he was last year to support that. There is no other way but simply to leave diplomas in their value. With regard to a few matters, I would like to ask the House to give its opinion on them with a motion for a resolution. First of all, a motion on the broad seventh grade. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the number of so-called 'wide bridge classes', in which pupils of more than one level of education are combined in the secondary class, is falling;]] [[Considering that the advisory bodies advise the government to maintain broad and multi-annual bridge classes due to their positive contribution to children's development opportunities;]] [[Noting that there has been no plan of action to promote broad bridge classes, such as the Grashoff motion. (34300-VIII, No. 58) asks:]] [[Considers that the promotion of broad bridge classes offers added value and needs insight into what schools need, including financially, in order to organise broad bridge classes where all pupils receive sufficient attention;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how to achieve more broad bridge classes, what is needed financially and to send a proposal to the Chamber before 1 February 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Vermue. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u323	I come to my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the education inspection concludes that more and more shadow education is emerging, such as private homework classes, tutoring and test and examination training, which contributes to inequality in education;]] [[Considering that in ten years the number of private educational establishments has doubled considerably and parental spending on private education has increased significantly;]] [[Notes that public-funding education should share responsibility for providing guidance and support to pupils in such a way that additional private education, homework guidance and examination training are not necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how more space and budget can be given to schools so that schools can provide appropriate guidance and support to pupils who need it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u324	This is my last motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many pabo-graduates do not enter primary education and that a large group quickly leaves primary education, which contributes to the (upcoming) shortage of teachers;]] [[noting that there is a large difference between remuneration and career opportunities in vo and po;]] [[believes that teachers in primary education are as valuable as teachers in secondary education;]] [[calls on the government to set up its policy in such a way that in the short term there will be better remuneration and career opportunities in primary education, equal to secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u325	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I don't have any motions, which will care a lot of reading. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. My thanks to their associates have been decided in that regard. I also wish them strength and wisdom in the implementation of the budget which will be adopted shortly. I would also like to thank both for the passionate and involved way in which they have expressed the value of the freedom of education. I appreciate that very much. They were clear arguments. If we listen to that honestly, I don't think we can get a pin in that. I would like to raise one more point in substance. I do not have a motion for that in preparation, but I am working on it in a different way. It is something that puts us in the throat like a bone: the way things are going around home education. The Secretary of State has written a nice letter to the municipalities. What was the effect of that? Exactly. Nothing. We are still getting signals from municipalities that arbitrary, very strange measures are being imposed there. A parent couple who for the second time indicates directional concerns is ordered to specify the objections to each individual school in a circle of 20 kilometres around the city. Then I'm thinking to myself, guys, what are we doing? I have seen in the written reply that in December is the internet consultation of a bill that is now before us. This means that no legislative proposal will be tabled during this cabinet period. We are very much in favour of getting this settled within this cabinet period, so that the willing home teachers who consciously choose to do so do not become the victims of all kinds of municipal arbitrariness. We will work this out and keep in touch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u326	Mr. Chairman. Due to time, I'll start my motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that schools and companies are jointly responsible for the availability of sufficient traineeships;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that placements for young people are guaranteed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u327	Now my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the additional requirements recently introduced for the pabo have led to a decrease in the inflow to the pabo and that many fewer MBOs are passing to the pabo;]] [[noting that the decline in the influx of students with a migrant background to the pabo is relatively high;]] [[considering the shortage of teachers;]] [[Considering the importance that diversity on the pabo reflects diversity in our society;]] [[calls on the government to identify, for example in a progress report Teachers' Agenda, whether and in what way a switching year could help the pabo to reduce the drop in inflow to the pabo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u328	I shall now move on to the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pupils with lower-educated parents appear to be less advanced in education than their peers with higher-educated parents;]] [[noting that inequality plays a role in the involvement of parents in the schooling of their children;]] [[having noted that the Government is involved in the programme of action Tel with Language, inter alia, in increasing parental involvement among low-language parents;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with relevant civil society organisations, to also pursue targeted policies to increase parental involvement among parents with a migrant background,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u329	I have a question about the first motion, because I don't quite understand filing it. This motion has already been tabled and adopted. Mr Kuzu thus undermines the previous broad majority in the Chamber. That would be a shame while we're fighting for the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u330	No. There has been an initiative paper from Mrs Jadnansing. The Minister has responded that for the time being she is literally not prepared to give that guarantee in the letter from the Minister, because she holds almost the whole world responsible for it. I think that this statement should be corrected once again, because the Minister is not going to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u331	The own-initiative paper was discussed in the Chamber and there was no majority in favour of it. Join us, and we'll get closer to a majority. Afterwards, however, a motion was tabled for a final approach to guarantee the internships of the member Jadnansing. It was a motion and it was passed! I'm making this interruption because I need her; I might make a nice Facebook movie out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u332	I would like to pass this question on to the Cabinet to see if the Minister wishes to carry it out. If it is the case that the Minister unreservedly states that she wishes to carry out this motion, I am, of course, prepared, also for the Facebook film, to withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u333	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their response. I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current education system, which includes special religious education, was designed by the State almost 100 years ago;]] [[noting that the character of the Netherlands has changed fundamentally since then, however, as a result of the progressive secularisation;]] [[noting that this change has caused the pillar society to cease to exist in view of the fact that 70% of the population no longer belongs to a ecclesiastical mindset and pronounced atheists now form a larger group than theists;]] [[noting, however, that the current system does allow for the development of a new Islamic pillar;]] [[Whereas the further secularisation of society as a whole will not allow this pillar to stand alongside other pillars, but in its own right;]] [[Whereas this constitutes a basis for an undesirable parallel society;]] [[whereas religious education is not at all the responsibility of the State;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards ending the subsidy of special religious education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-VIII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u334	I have two questions. What does Mr Van Klaveren mean by "working towards the end of religious education"? Can he make this more concrete? What happens to special general schools, such as Montessori schools and the like, if this motion is carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u335	I shall begin with the second question. The difference is that it is more about the didactic form of learning. How do you learn that one plus one is two? You can do that with toys and materials like they do at Montessori schools, but also oldskool with a booklet. So these schools are just gonna exist. The first point, 'working towards', ultimately means that we want to ensure that special religious education is no longer subsidised by the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u336	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. 30 motions have been tabled. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u337	Mr. Chairman. I'll walk right by the motions. I shall begin with the motion by Mr Van Dijk/Mohandis on part No. 20 on the high tuition fees for the second study. I advise against this motion. I do not need to have that investigated, as requested in the motion, because I know what it costs, namely 90 million. I don't have that money right now. However, we have arranged that you can do your second study at a statutory tuition fee when you start that second study while you are still in your first study. I think that is a huge step forward. It costs 90 million. If Mr Van Dijk wants to settle this, he will also have to indicate where it should be paid for. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u338	You may respond very briefly, Mr Van Dijk. 30 motions have been tabled. If we discuss every motion again, we'll be here until 6:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u339	I'm not interrupting 30 motions, just the first four. The minister's going a little too fast with that $90 million bill. The motion only asks how you could maximize it. So there is no limit at all. We're just giving the Minister the room to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u340	The amount it costs stays in place. If you let someone who has already completed a first study do their second study against legal tuition, it costs 90 million. We know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u341	We're not going to have the discussion again, I'm very sorry. You may intervene only if you wish to amend, withdraw or maintain a motion. A new discussion is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u342	But this is a misunderstanding. It is not a question of reducing the rate to legal tuition fees. There are countless variants possible. You can also maximize up to €6,000, namely the funding of a higher education study.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u343	Then we'll start a whole new discussion. Why else would we fund a second study than a first study? I don't see that. We have two funding systems: legal tuition fees and institution tuition fees. We can choose from that. We can start a whole discussion about tuition fees, but I don't want to do that. I'm glad our legal tuition isn't too high. You never know where it's gonna lead when you start a whole discussion about that, which brings people to certain thoughts. This is gonna cost money. If you want to do it now, at legal tuition fees, it'll cost 90 million. Mr Duisenberg would like the Chamber to talk about all these fine opinions on lifelong learning: the opinion of the Education Council, the ESC opinion, the opinion of the Sap Committee. That debate will take place on Monday, during the debate on the Tax Plan, at which I will be present. If Mr Duisenberg wishes to begin this debate, he will be able to follow that debate, because then we are going to discuss the training deduction, which is in line with the opinions. The Duisenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 21 is about study information. This motion is partly superfluous and I would like to dissuade part of it. I can't, so I'm gonna have to dissuade her completely. It would be even better if this motion were held. The Chamber has received an extensive letter from us about LOB. In that we state that there are already clear starting points. A national standard, as proposed by Mr Duisenberg, does not, in my view, offer anything extra. However, it is possible to design a top-sectoral expertise point, which has a central national function. We can see if we can join in, but I have the feeling that the letter on LOB is still subject to a debate with the Chamber, so I would ask the authors to hold this motion. There will also be an examination of the study choice check. That study will be completed by the end of this year. We could involve this issue in this. It is my preference for the motion to be held; if it is not, I would advise against it. In the motion-Rog in part No. 22 The cabinet is asked to allow students who, due to force majeure, are longer on their studies to pay per study point. I think it is a creative idea, also to join the initiatives of Mr Duisenberg and Mr Mohandis. I can also imagine, but that experiment flex study has not yet begun. We should start with that first to see if it can be done for other groups as well. Part of the groups mentioned by Mr Rog are also in the experiment. For example, I heard him talk about pregnant women and I also thought about parents with children. They're in the experiment. Maybe other groups could be added. I don't reject that in advance, but first I want to wait for the experiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u344	What is the verdict on Mr Rog's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u345	I'm dissuading him now. The motion could also be held, but it will take a while, because that pilot has yet to begin. I sincerely say that I find the idea interesting, but it is now far too early to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u346	Isn't the Minister prepared to see if she can broaden the experiment with a part of this target group? It is a specific target group that, by definition, already knows at the front that he will not get all credits. Is that a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u347	It's complicated. We've just established that pilot, and it needs to be carried out now. I'd like to see if I can, but I can't guarantee that. Then I really need to take a look at the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u348	I am holding the motion and I would very much appreciate it if the Minister would let us know if there is such a possibility. Then I can always decide to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u349	I'm willing to look into it. Let me say that. I'm not reluctant, but I wonder if it's still feasible. That's more the question. I hear now that it's probably feasible. I'll let you know the exact answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u350	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (34550-VIII, No. 22), as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 19 December 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to selfemployed persons and to members of their That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u351	I have one more question for the sake of clarity. It was agreed between Mr Rog and the Minister that the Minister would look into it. Is that specifically about the institutions that are now participating in the pilot?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u352	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u353	If it goes out there, it's impossible anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u354	No, it's just the pilot. We can then learn from that whether it might also offer opportunities elsewhere. In the Rog/Van Meenen motion to item No. 23 The Government is invited to index the age limit of lifelong learning credit according to the AOW age. Again, I think it is an interesting and logical idea. I would also like to ask for the motion to be retained, because there is a cost involved in such an increase. However, I do not think it is surprising to explore this subject further, even when dealing with the intention to abolish the training allowance. That is also what lifelong learning is about, so I would prefer to include it in Monday's debate. It's probably gonna get a sequel there, too. Then we can have the debate properly. We don't actually have space here for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u355	Are you going to hold the motion, Mr. Rog?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u356	Yes, with the Minister's promise, I'll hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u357	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (34550-VIII, No. 23). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u358	The Rog/Duisenberg motion in part No. 24, I don't think it's necessary. I have already promised an investigation in the legislative consultation. I've announced that here again. I would like to send a letter at the turn of the year about training with a fixus. I also want to do an investigation, but I want to do that widely with multiple scenarios. This is therefore aimed not only at technical universities, but also at general universities with beta courses and also at first generation students or stackers, for example. For the rest, I've already promised this. So I find the motion superfluous and dissuade her. The motion in part No. 25 of Mr Rog and Mr Mohandis are concerned with civic education in the MBO. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I share the importance of civic education in the MBO. I have made a number of comments. There's still a lot to figure out. But as the motion has now been formulated, it also gives room for manoeuvre. So I'll leave the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 30 of the member Bertema deals with English as a teaching language in higher education. I'm deceiving that motion. We have also talked about this many times. I believe that Dutch is important and should also remain an important language in higher education. But English is also relevant. We are also training more and more for an international market, with international students. It shouldn't turn around. I asked the Academy how institutions can cope with this tension. I expect to get that report by Christmas. I could suggest to Mr Beertema that we hold the motion because we can discuss that report from the Academy around or after Christmas. If he doesn't, I'll advise against the motion. In the Bertema motion in part No. 31 the government is asked to instruct higher education to give priority to Dutch students in the case of numerus-fixus policy. I would advise against this motion, because it is very important that international students should also be able to come to the Netherlands. They often pay institution money. That's important for universities. It also creates the international classroom, which is important for Dutch students. So I do not think this is a desirable solution. Mr Van Meenen's motion for a resolution 32 deals with the study advance and the conditions for reimbursement. I'm deceiving that motion. Of course, it is a sympathetic idea, but it concerns no less than 800,000 debtors. They would then have to pay less back and spread their reimbursement over a longer period. That costs a lot of money, and not only in 34 years, but also much earlier. It would cost some 500 million. Government debt is increasing. It's a sympathetic thought, but it's not something you put into an afternoon like this. I do not mean that disrespectfully, but there should be a very good investigation and debate ahead of it. I would advise against the motion as it has now been formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u359	I have a brief question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 31 by Mr Beertema. It was about those foreign students. The Minister doesn't like doing that. Were those the arguments? It is not the case that higher legislation opposes this? I think this is important for advising my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u360	I think it's very complicated. I don't think it's possible to say you can't hire international students anymore. The only thing that can be done is that institutions say that they give priority to Dutch students in decentralised selection. But I would find that very undesirable. It is contrary to all international agreements on higher education and Bologna agreements. It should be something we really shouldn't want, because then we will question all international agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u361	I would really appreciate it if the Minister could let the Chamber know what international agreements this would be against. I think that's relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u362	The Bologna Agreements are the most important agreements in the field of higher education. I will let the Court know that with further arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u363	I understand what the Minister is saying about my motion in part No. 32. To call this an afternoon after! It doesn't feel like it. Anyway... If I changed the operative part of the motion so that it would say: does the government ask to investigate the possibilities for students, etc.? Then how does the Minister look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u364	Then I think it is a very broad-based motion. What kind of research do you want to do? What do you want to point that at? I suggest you make the operative part a little more precise. They were also asked what it means if you let those 800,000 students flow in from one day to the next in the study advance. But to see if there are scenarios for that, that would be theoretically possible. However, I do not think that is the most important thing at the moment, with all the priorities indicated by the Chamber. So it doesn't seem crucial to me at the moment. I would like to say: let's see how the study advance crystallizes. If we have more insight into that and have it in order, this could be a next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u365	What are you doing with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u366	I was prepared to change the motion as a result of what the Minister said. Now, apparently, she comes back to that. I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u367	You have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u368	So my judgment remains: dissuade. Then I come to the Van Meenen motion on part No. 33 on streamlining the study allowance. Let me be clear that I share the concerns about students with disabilities. I have recently sent a letter to the Chamber about this with an inventory of problems, which shows that there is not one bottleneck and that there is not one simple solution either. So this can't be the solution either. We do not know whether the individual grant will help, because not all students are eligible for it. It is part of the Participation Act, which is decentralised. So it is also contrary to the idea behind it. I have already indicated in my letter that I would like to look at the next monitor, which will come out in spring. If there is a reason and if we have more information that will help us to determine the bottleneck, I will also act. I admit that, but I do not recommend the adoption of this motion. Moreover, Mr Rog's idea of flex study is perhaps just as interesting a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u369	Nor can the Minister exclude that this is a solution. Wouldn't it make more sense to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u370	You can. I'm fine with that. In the spring we have the monitor on the study advance. Then I might be able to indicate more precisely where and how a problem arises with students with disabilities. On the basis of the letter received recently by the Chamber, this is not the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u371	Then I'll take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u372	At the request of Mr Van Meenen, I propose his motion (14550-VIII, No. 33). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u373	Then I come to the Van Meenen motion on part No. 35 on the investigation of the CJP pass. I do not recommend its adoption. It is of course a sympathetic thought, because I would very much like cultural education, but I note that we are taking good steps, with quality cultural education. The Chamber will soon receive a letter from us on cultural education. We have introduced a cultural map in the MBO. There it was also necessary, because mbos cannot use facilities. This is different in primary education, because most young children can already make free use of cultural facilities. On top of everything we already have, I don't think a CJP makes any sense. I therefore reject this motion, but I repeat: the Chamber will soon receive a letter on cultural education. If the motion is held, it could still be involved. Then I come to Mr Bruins' motion. I do not have the number at hand, because it is a motion on lifelong learning that has been tabled before and is being put back to the vote. I think it's an interesting motion. It is largely in line with the letter on lifelong learning that we have sent. This is also in line with the idea of converting the training allowance into vouchers. I would therefore prefer to include the motion in the debate on Monday. I am not saying it to be faint, but I would like to ask you to hold the motion until we have had that debate. Once again, Mr Bruins's thinking is very much in line with mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u374	If I am not mistaken, the votes are on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u375	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u376	Then I'll hold the motion until Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u377	Thank you. I thought we were talking about the 21st motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u378	I don't have a number, because it's an old motion that's been filed before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u379	For the Acts: this is the 34475-VIII motion, No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u380	At the request of Mr Bruins, I propose his motion (34475-VIII, No. 14), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u381	Then I come to the Bruins/Mohandis motion on part No. 37 about stackers in higher education. I would like to take over this motion, because that motion is very much in line with what we announced in the letter on equal opportunities. I mention the research that runs into the transition from HBO to wo and from wo bachelor to wo master, so the switching programs and the custom solutions we propose, and researchNed's research into the switching programs, on which I will further inform the Chamber in spring 2017. I am therefore inclined, if the Chamber does not object, to adopt this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u382	Does anyone object to taking over this motion? I see that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u383	The motion in part No. 38 is about forgiveness for people with disabilities. On this motion, too, I would like to ask for her to be detained, for exactly the same reason that I did so in the other motions on students with disabilities. I refer again to the letter I just sent to the Chamber. There is no clear bottleneck in this. Nor does it say that this solution would be the preferred option. If this spring from the monitor shows that there is a real problem, I am willing to look at a solution, but then we have to look at a cover right away. There's no cover in this motion. I therefore ask the proposers to hold this motion. I come to the Kuzu motion on part No. 43, about internships. Mr Mohandis has already mentioned this. I can only agree entirely with him. We have already taken important steps in this respect. Mrs Jadnansing has called for this once again. I'm working on it, and there's a final approach. SBB has an explicit role to play in picking up the signals. This motion adds nothing to that. I'm gonna dissuade her. Then there is the Kuzu motion in part No. 44, on a progress report for the Teacher Agenda and a link year at the pabo. I do not know whether Mr Kuzu has read the letter on equal opportunities correctly? In any case, he has seen that we also come up with proposals, with funding, to encourage students from the MBO to go to the pabo. That is precisely what we are doing on the basis of the desire to promote diversity. So there is now an intensification of the support pathways and a pilot in a metropolitan context. We do that because I want all children in all classes in the Netherlands to be able to identify with teachers, with masters and with role models for the classroom. I therefore advise against this motion, because it is really unnecessary. Finally, there is the motion by Mr Kuzu about Tel along with Language. That motion is unnecessary, too. This also applies: once Mr Kuzu has read the letter on equal opportunities, he has been able to see that through the Tel programme we are already going to develop additional activities with Language in order to involve parents. Then there is a lot of energy from colleagues, including from other departments. I would say to Mr Kuzu: you are already being served and no motion is needed for this. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u384	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I shall suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u385	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u386	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins owed me a number of answers concerning research into technology and vmbo. I asked for an opinion from the Education Council on the financing of technical VMBO. I expect that at the end of this year. I will then send the opinion to the Chamber as soon as possible, with a response. That will be in December or January. The quickscan we were talking about turned out to have been sent to the Chamber last Friday. So it's already on his desk somewhere. And at the beginning of next year I would like to send the Chamber an overview of the actual conversion to the new profiles by the schools that passed in 2016. I must point out that schools can also choose to do so only in 2017. So it doesn't give a full picture yet, but it's kind of an intermediate position. A complete picture is given to Mr Bruins in early 2018. Then I come to the motions, starting with the Vermue c.s motion. in piece No. 26. I'd like to say a few things about that. In the end, I think we want the same thing. We want a flow-right that is clear for all children who have completed the vmbo, without ifs and buts. At the same time, I have to say that the VMBO does not fit well with the HAVO at the moment. There's a nasty hole in it. But I think it could be better than it is now. Quite apart from the fact that the admission code is not applied everywhere and that it is a mess, I think that the thresholds raised are on the high side. They could be lower than they are now, especially if we start working with switching programs later. Maybe this is what I'd like to suggest. I think I can come up with a proposal fairly quickly and I suspect that I will be able to meet Mrs Vermue with that. We can go to a flow-through law that offers children opportunities, without causing incredible accidents and ending whole generations of children, which we could have expected in advance. I'm here for the Christmas celebrations with that proposal. Perhaps Mrs Vermue would like to continue her motion until then. Then I'll go to the Bertema motion on piece number one. 27. In that motion we are talking about an adjustment of the core targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u387	Before you go any further, I have one more question. Could it be that you also have the motion in part No. 17 should be dealt with, and the motions on pieces No. 18 and 19? Mr Duisenberg, do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u388	I heard the Secretary of State at the previous motion make the request to apprehend her. However, I would like to ask what his opinion is if that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u389	Then, strictly speaking, I should say that I should discourage the motion. But I feel like we're so terribly close together. I therefore hope that Mrs Vermue will give me the opportunity to come up with a serious proposal. I have also heard Mr Grashoff. He felt that there was too little pace, but there has really been an incredible amount of work done lately. I'm really over the bridge, too. In his first motion, Mr Grashoff asked for the right of transit. So I've spent a lot of time with these schools, and I've come to the conclusion that, if you really want to do this right, you have to take care of it legally. That is why we have put in the action plan that we are going to do this legally. I think I can really come up with something that will satisfy the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u390	And what is your verdict in case the motion is not held?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u391	If the motion isn't stopped, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. But I'd think that was a shame, because we're incredibly close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u392	The Secretary of State says: I think we agree. Then what is the problem with putting the motion to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u393	We agree on the dot on the horizon. That horizon may not even be that far away. We agree on where we want to go. The vmbo and the havo don't match well. Suppose you got your VMBO degree, six courses. In addition, a number of courses do not fit in well with what you get on the havo. Still, you want to go to the Havo. It is impossible to catch up in that very short period of time and the extra course and in terms of course content in exams that are totally incompatible. That is a huge task. It is even a huge task for the very strong madman. I want to see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u394	I think we have the law for that. In that light, I will discuss it with the co-subscribers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u395	Then you have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u396	I appreciate that. I skipped three motions. I'm gonna go back to the motion on part no. 17. It belongs to Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Siderius. I advise against this motion. The funding goes to school boards and they themselves have the opportunity to make decisions in this regard. They never do that themselves, however, but always in consultation with the participation council. A pilot in this area is also very complicated, because it cannot be legal. There is an employer and that is always the competent authority. I'll come to the motion in part No. 18. In fact, I think that motion is superfluous, because parental contributions are always voluntary. If you can't pay a contribution or, more importantly, if you don't want to pay it, you don't have to pay it. There is also a risk if you go this way and limit the contribution. Then you assume that everyone will have to pay the contribution and the voluntary nature will be removed from it. In other words, I don't think that's wise. I would therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 19 is based on the establishment of a fund. I also advise against that motion. At the moment, it does not appear that the current funding is insufficient. I had begun the motion in part no. 27. Perhaps Mr Beertema is prepared to hold this motion. I see what he wants. He really wants to give substance to the task of citizenship, including in the key objectives. Honestly, I think he did his best. I don't know where he got it or whether he made it up himself or had any inspiration. I think that there are very good elements in these proposals for the core objectives, but I do not like it in terms of process. We have just started a whole process in which we let teachers think much more about the design of the curriculum. I'd be so sorry if politics were to overrule that. It's a little premature, I'd say. Perhaps Mr Beertema is prepared to hold on to his motion. Otherwise, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to dissuade her. I'll come to the motion in part No. 28. I have personal feelings about raising the flag and singing the national anthem. I often get goosebumps, in the good sense of the word, but I think it is a step too far to impose that on all schools in the Netherlands. The motion in part No. Twenty-nine, I don't recommend it. I do not rule out the possibility that we will be discussing this again, but we will have to do so as soon as there is a proper review of the law. I expect a mid-term evaluation in spring. I shall now turn to Mr Van Meenen's motion for a resolution. 34. It seems very sympathetic, but we have had to make a number of choices in terms of a substantial subsidy mission. Perhaps the Model European Parliament can use some private funds in a different way. There are a lot of private funds in the Netherlands where you can find money. I don't think this is a task for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u397	Of course, this is a very harsh situation. This was once a private initiative of a lady, who grew older, and then it was decided in consultation to place it at the Montesquieu Institute. Then there will be a mission all over the Montesquieu Institute and this will disappear. The Secretary of State might consider, for example, whether it is possible to move it somewhere else, so that it can be continued in one way or another. That's how broad the Secretary of State can see the motion. I'm just asking him to look for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u398	Then perhaps Mr Van Meenen can do it with a commitment from my side. I would like to have a conversation with those who are doing this in order to look more broadly at what is possible, but I would like to make it quite clear that that does not mean that we are going to take it one-on-one. I'd like to think along, but that's different than paying for it. The Bruins/Van Dijk motion in part No. 36 is about vmbo schools. It calls on the government to take a serious look at this and to remove any bottlenecks. I haven't been idle, and I'm not going to. We did that sample I was talking about. In a number of cases, schools, further education and business have already proved to be working well together and to be able to maintain technical education. Where that is not the case, there is work to be done. I have found Doekle Terpstra willing to work as a driver of the Technics Pact to overcome the bottlenecks in those regions and to get things moving. Of course there must be interest from students, because if there are no students, you cannot keep an education in the air either. I like to do this together with the business community when it comes to the direction, but the schools will ultimately continue to have the responsibility to come up with a joint offer. If Mr Bruins says that he can live well with all these remarks and if he thinks this is a good way to do it, I see him nodding now, I can accept this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u399	Is everyone okay with taking over this motion? I see that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u400	The Bruins motion c.s in part No. 39 is very dangerous. First of all, I do not agree with the proposers that there is anything wrong with the way the inspection looks at the learning outcomes in schools. There's a lot of things being taken into account. That's just really, really good. If there is room for improvement, it is fine to talk about it, but in this motion we are asked not to look at it anymore. I said at the beginning that the number of weak and very weak schools in the Netherlands is decreasing. If we were to do what is stated in this motion, we would have no weak and very weak schools in the Netherlands from tomorrow. That is extremely dangerous, because there are really a number of schools where education is not enough. I think it is very important that we have an inspection that can intervene. It is now only a handful of schools, but it is really too far for me to go away with all the instruments we have to intervene where education is not adequate. I therefore strongly advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u401	I am prepared to amend the operative part with the text: by asking the government to develop a clear and unambiguous system that is no longer based on this. Until there is, of course, the Secretary of State must be able to apply the old system. So I'm not asking him to delete what we have immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u402	I also do not believe that what we have is not satisfactory. The inspection looks multiannual. It's not like you have a problem right away if you have a less good class for one year or if it's one year off. This is a series of years in a row in which the learning outcomes remain below the size of the entire population. The inspection always uses a kind of "pass or explain" principle. If a school goes down through the ice, but has a good story, the inspection can take that into account. But I don't want schools that year showing bad results and not having a good story to get away with. Then there is the Grashoff/Vermue motion on part No. 40 over broad bridge classes. I haven't been idle here either. In fact, I expect that we can come up with two things in the very short term. The first is an overview. Mr Grashoff asked for an inventory of white spots where broad bridge classes are missing. I think we can come up with that before Christmas. The same applies to qualitative research into the motives of schools to choose broad or narrow. That gives us a better understanding of the motives. That also comes before the Christmastreces. Perhaps the proposers are prepared to hold the motion until then. The motion is now very much based on a financial impulse or incentive, but I am not in favour of that. We're doing a broad impact analysis to a lot of incentives. We are not ruling this out, but I think it is too early to adopt one measure. The Grashoff motion in part No. 41 I do not recommend, because I believe that schools receive sufficient funding to provide proper regular education and that there is no need for all kinds of homework guidance. I don't need to do any more research on that. Then I come to the Grashoff motion on part No. 42 over a higher reward. Mr Grashoff and I agree on functional differentiation. The possibilities for differentiation between LA, LB and LC should be better exploited. He may also hold me to that, but according to this motion, there should soon be a better reward equal to that in secondary education. That is very similar to the motions we know from Mr Van Meenen; nice promises but without cover. What Mr Grashoff is asking for here is a lot of money. The Van Klaveren motion in part No. 46 actually amounts to abolishing Article 23. It will have been clear in this debate that I am not in favour of it, so I would advise against it. There are two amendments. The Grashoff amendment to point No. 14 is about extra money for higher salary scales for teachers in the po. I told you, I don't think that's necessary, because there's room in the money of the pot to do what he wants. Besides, he wears cover that can't be. Cover must be found in suspending the diagnostic interim test. That is what we have debated. Following that debate, we were given the green light, so we also entered into legal commitments. The budget he is putting forward is now legally binding. If you really want to do something with salaries, it's not gonna do you any good. Then you need to provide structural cover. I would advise against that amendment. I do the same with the Bruins amendment in part No. 15. Extra money is always nice, but in my opinion it's not really necessary. If it turns out to be necessary, we're having another conversation. Here too there are a lot of hooks and eyes on the cover, because this one is removed from all kinds of jars. I think there are things in there that are going to hurt the left and right incredibly. In secondary education, the resources for the Teachers Development Fund would fall and summer schools should be reduced. In the MBO we should reduce the resources for career orientation, excellent craftsmanship and participation of girls in technology. In my view, these are things that Mr Bruins himself believes are important. In the case of emancipation, this means about half the budget. This would, for example, be at the expense of funding for administrative commitments to municipalities and to lhbt organisations. In other words, it's all highly undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-03-tweedekamer-8.u403	This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for defending their budget. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the people who have followed this debate in a different way and the officials who support it. We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday.
