ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66. Speaking time is set at four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. If the collective agreement did not exist, we should invent it today. Employers and employees therefore rightly do not want to get rid of the collective agreement. The collective agreement prevents a downward spiral in working conditions and the abolition of them, as recently advocated by the VVD, is therefore a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr Mulder, Mr Van Weyenberg has just spoken his first sentences. I suggest he finish his introduction before you interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Van Weyenberg is making a caricature of our position. The VVD is not opposed to abolishing collective agreements, but it has a generally binding view, and that is something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr Mulder is saying that now, but in that beautiful piece of paper, it says nice interview or opinion article with or with him: there are no collective agreements and that is a good thing, it is a good thing that they are not closed. Mr Mulder should not now do what he often has a hand with, namely use big words in the media and then waggle in the Chamber. He said in that interview: 'no collective agreements are good'. In my view, my representation of this does all right to the approach of the VVD Group. However, today's collective agreement is no longer today. Grey trade unions make out-of-date agreements with employers and the government can solve the problems. Take older people's unemployment, a great social tragedy. The long-term unemployment among 45-plussers is large and then you see that the cabinet must all try to fix things in action plans and with hiring bonuses and the extra deployment of the UWV. Hundreds of millions, but mopping with the crane open, because the wage tables in the collective agreements make a 55-year-old 60% more expensive than someone at the end of 20. That's why many employers think older people are too expensive. In Scandinavia, the pay gap is smaller and there you can see that older people are three times less and less unemployed. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would also mention senior days and exemption from irregular services. These are all collective agreements that make older people more expensive and feed the prejudice that older people are less productive. Why doesn't the Minister really take action on this? Social partners have also agreed to give older workers an additional WW year through the collective agreement. I would like to hear from the Minister what the situation is and whether it is possible to do so or not. The collective agreement is also far behind when it comes to training. Everyone is talking about lifelong learning, but in practice this tends to mean a lifetime of laziness in collective agreements. There's not a lot of training going on. Yes, of course, job-oriented training is often arranged to make an auto mechanic a better mechanic. But from training for another job or retraining to another sector where there is work, that right to education and individual training budgets, there is still very little of that. The vast majority of training funds in collective agreements prohibit intersectoral training. A re-training ban isn't from this time of year, is it? Did the Minister solve this? The Chamber's been asking for this for five years. The Minister was recently sent back on the road to put pressure on this after a negative reaction from the social partners. Did he say that this should finally be done? What's the status? We had to postpone this debate, because the Minister had not sent the critical reactions of professors to the examination of the universally binding declaration to the Chamber. The Minister has rightly apologized for this, which is sporty and, moreover, justified. However, the question remains as to why these investigations were not sent to the Chamber at all; that question has still not been answered. Yesterday, the Minister sent additional documents found in SZW's computers. This shows that the CPB would also respond to the investigation. Is that reaction coming? Are there any more pieces or does yesterday's set contain the last pieces that have been made public? Is the Minister prepared to send the Chamber a cabinet response to the investigation? It does contain a number of recommendations and I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. I would like it to address both the suggestions of the professors who have read critically and the recent research by the trade union AVV with suggestions to strengthen the policy of universally binding. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I'm rounding up. I am critical of the content of collective agreements, not the fact that there are collective agreements. I hope that the Minister is not just going to say that the social partners are about collective agreements. Trade unions and employers must come out of their trenches. The Minister's task is to get them out of these trenches and to fight each other so that the following things can be achieved: more training, more tailor-made work and more opportunities for job seekers. The Minister needs to repair the damage now. Make sure he doesn't cause any more damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u6	This morning Mr Van Weyenberg said on the radio that the collective agreement as an instrument is good, but that the content is not good. If he says those things about the collective agreement, isn't he talking in the wrong room right now? Then the D begins to become the D of dictatorship, doesn't it? Only in countries that we dislike, that violate human rights, does politics interfere with the results of collective agreements. Free negotiation is a fundamental right. D66 wants to tamper with that. You shouldn't be standing here, but you should go to an employers' meeting or union meeting. You shouldn't be selling that shit here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u7	I think I can say what I want here. Perhaps Mr Ulenbelt does not want that, but that is my democratic right. The problem is something completely different. It's a one-way street now. Social partners are allowed to talk about all kinds of laws. I'm fine with that. Let's have that input. However, we do not want collective agreements to ensure that older people do not get involved, that training does not get off the ground and that retraining is banned in many funds. For that, the government has to do all kinds of repairs. The government plays a role in this, especially since the agreements are then made generally binding. I am concerned both with the impact on the public interest and with making it universally binding, and I certainly have an opinion on that. Mr Ulenbelt also has an opinion on it, and that is exactly right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u8	Finally, Mr Ulenbelt, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u9	D66 claims to be a human rights party. The fundamental question then is: does D66 respect the freedom of negotiation in this country? Should parties, workers' associations and employers' associations be allowed to conclude collective agreements and are they concerned with content rather than D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u10	It is a pity that Mr Ulenbelt does not want to see the other side. Of course, the social partners themselves are concerned with the content of collective agreements, but this is imposed on all kinds of others by the Minister. That's a government role, so we can talk about it. If these agreements lead to little customization and ensure that older people do not get into work and that you are not allowed to retrain, the general interest is not served. Why don't you say something about that? Since when does Mr Ulenbelt keep his mouth shut when he disagrees with something? He doesn't, and I don't intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Ulenbelt felt that he had not received an answer to his question. Mr Ulenbelt, you may repeat your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u12	Does D66 respect the freedom of negotiation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u13	You haven't heard me tell you that I want to ban or abolish collective agreements. I want the Minister to finally take action to pull the social partners out of the trenches. Of course there is freedom, but I have questions to other parties about what is being imposed and about the content. I really do not understand why we in this House should not make calls about the content of collective agreements which, for example, ensure that older people do not get to work, while the social partners are allowed to make suggestions for legislation. I'm fine with that, too. I do not understand how Mr Ulenbelt walks away from two-way traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief about collective agreements. There was a debate about it a little while ago. Cao's are agreements between employers and employees. As far as the PVV is concerned, politics is not going to do that. I think that this is a long way to go for Mr Ulenbelt. I would like an answer to my question as to whether the Minister is prepared to drop it. I would also like to look at Mr Mulder, who has already mentioned it. Give employers and employees the freedom or dispensation to continue to negotiate themselves. Don't sit in there as a minister. A lot of people don't belong to a union. Many entrepreneurs lose freedom of competition. That's a problem. Can the Minister shed his light on this? I'll be brief about the report. Earlier we saw that the Minister ordered another report when he did not like a particular report on Turkish youth. Suddenly it was said that the previous report was careless. Now it's about another report. It's starting to be a bit of a tradition in this cabinet. We also saw it with the previous Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. I believe that this debate was held three years ago on 28 January. It got tough back then. After that, it was more often seen in the cabinet, as with the Minister of Security and Justice. It's getting a little weird with those reports. When the pressure suddenly rises, the Minister, of course, comes very well with an excuse, but it is starting to look a bit like a tradition. I would like to hear more from the Minister about the report and the outcome that it contained. Thanks to D66 and his contacts, we now know more about this and the debate has been postponed for a week. Can the Minister continue to shed his light on this so that the Chamber can be reassured as to how the report and its comments have been drawn up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. The collective agreement is a solution. The collective agreement is not a problem. In 1937, ten years after the introduction of the Collective Labour Agreement Act, the then Minister for Social Affairs pointed to the various beneficial effects of the collective agreement. It then suggested that collective agreements should be made universally binding. The interesting thing is that this minister, Marcus Slingenberg, was a member of the Free Democratic Union. When D66 was founded in 1966, many founders saw D66 as the revival of that Free-Democratic League. It is, of course, particularly toe-curious to see how the descendants of the Free Democratic Union now deal with collective agreements and declare them universally binding. If Mr Van Weyenberg Rutte quotes and says that collective agreements are 'collective distrust', he is no longer a democrat but something else. For neoliberals, collective agreements are a problem. For the socialists, they're a solution. They are the basis for a certain wage, a decent pension, decent working and rest periods and training. Cao's brought a lot of good to the country. They are a crown jewel of the Rhineland-Palatinate model, they are a system of social organization which allows samples of the free market to be caged, an organization based on cooperation rather than the right of the strongest. That's social, and you have to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u16	I believe that I have also stressed the importance of the collective agreement in my contribution. I have a question for Mr Ulenbelt. In 85% of training funds in collective agreements, it is forbidden to retrain to another sector; this is not paid. Does Mr Ulenbelt think that is a good outcome in today's labour market? Is he happy about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u17	That's their money. That's what they put together. I'm not going to remodel my house at Mr. Van Weyenberg's expense, am I? Don't be silly, I'd say!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u18	A lot of people in a sector with fewer jobs who want to retrain, know where they stand with the SP: they think about polder interests but do not think about the interests of the workers who want to retrain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u19	Of course, people need to be trained. But if, as D66 does, you want to plunder our students with debts, debts, debts and meanwhile collective pots for your own purposes, I say: I am not going to remodel my house at Mr Van Weyenberg's expense. He can't do that with someone else's money either. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u20	You may respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u21	I note that Mr Ulenbelt is raising other issues because he does not want to answer the question. My question is very simple. If you have contributed to the funds in a sector, it is their money, and you want to retrain yourself, Mr Ulenbelt apparently thinks it is very nice that these funds do not want to pay for this retraining. It is also money from those workers, I say to Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u22	That money is also very usefully spent. The annual reports of the training funds show that a lot of money is being invested in where it is intended to be, namely to keep up with your profession and develop yourself in your profession. Very useful, very good! If someone has to go to another sector, then why wouldn't that sector pay for it? Those people need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u23	The tone of the debate has now been set a little bit, but I would like to ask a further question about the content of this story. I believe that in many places the importance of intersectoral training is stressed, because jobs are disappearing in one sector but there are opportunities in another. Employees who have been active in one sector for sometimes 20, 30 years can also work for 10, 15 years in another sector where there is more employment. Those people paid for those funds. That being the case, and given that they have knowledge in another sector, is it right that there should be more room for intersectoral training? That's in the interests of the workers, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u24	Of course, it's important that you find a job. I am in favour of this, and my group has been in favour of it for a long time to re-introduce the Centre for Vocational Training. The unemployed must also be retrained, and this cannot be done at the expense of training funds; neither will Mr Van Weyenberg. This means that these people can be trained, retrained and retrained. Education is a public provision and, as far as I am concerned, so is the training of workers. What the training funds are doing is developing and keeping up with the expertise and so on. Fine, we owe that to collective agreements, and we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u25	In any case, it is a good thing that Mr Ulenbelt points out that this is important, because I do not think that this is inappropriate either. If something is of such great importance, then politics can best send the signal to the polder: make that movement more because it does not happen enough? It is in the interests of those workers. In order to put pressure on this, as non-democratic, is a little too easy, because Mr Ulenbelt here in this House can also help to signal that this modernisation is necessary for the future of the labour market in the field of education and training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u26	That is something Mr Heerma should say where he wants to say. I fundamentally believe that employers and employees are concerned with the use of the money they have put together. We must not let politics interfere with that. It's as simple as that. Then Mr Heerma must become a member of the CNV to get it done there instead of imposing it on the polder. 30 years of neoliberalism has plunged us into a deep crisis, almost as deep as the crisis of the thirties, at the time when the collective agreement and the general declaration were established. This was then intended to prevent chaos and to provide security, not only for employees but also for employers. During the hearing we held, this became clear: employers and employees in the Netherlands embrace the collective agreement and the general declaration. They don't do that out of love for each other, but they do it in the right sense. But the liberals, the neoliberals, with Van Weyenberg and Mulder first, keep messing around with the collective agreement and want to interfere with its content. I say don't! However, vigilance is needed. Collective agreements have recently been agreed on behalf of a minority of trade unionists. At the supermarkets the FNV was on the side side, in the retail the FNV and the CNV were on the side and a collective agreement was concluded by two miniscule bonds. If you want to undermine the collective agreement, you must declare these collective agreements universally binding. Does the Minister agree with the SP that a collective agreement notified for a general declaration should have the support of trade unions representing at least half of the members of which they are members? Will the Minister make a proposal to arrange for a general declaration to be made only if the trade unions which have concluded the collective agreement together represent the majority of trade unionists? I'm curious to hear his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested a year ago by Mr Van Weyenberg with the result of difficult collective bargaining. A year later, however, we can see that it has been a difficult year in collective bargaining, in which trade unions were even faced with each other in court. At least in the second half of the year, however, there were also bright spots. Collective agreements have also been concluded, for example in construction, which take steps on issues we have been discussing here for a number of years. Sometimes they are steps, but the movement is visible in a number of collective agreements from the second half of 2015. Especially interesting for this debate is the hearing we held in this house on the future of collective agreements and the future of our polder model. The consensus among all participants in the hearing was that our polder model, the collective agreement system, was an enormous force that brought economic growth, healthy conditions of competition and rest in the labour market. It is one of the reasons why the Dutch economy is one of the strongest in Europe. However, there was also consensus on something else: the labour market is changing very quickly and there is a need to modernise collective agreements. In fact, there was consensus among everyone on both these points. The labour market is changing rapidly and collective agreements are under pressure. Collective agreements are undermined by mismatches in the labour market. The problem that "solid" is too solid and "flex" too flexible is not solved. It is a problem that collective agreements are draining out. There's a need to change there. The atmosphere among the polder parties over the past few years, with each other mainly from the shooter's pits, Mr Van Weyenberg used that word even though he was bombarded and politically attacked from his own right, has not helped. The polder has too often been stuck in taboos, but so has politics. The Labour Party and the VVD have also failed to get together on many dossiers in recent years. In doing so, politics fits in with this debate with some modesty. Where PvdA and VVD often didn't come out, the same polder was then looked at the SER or at the collective bargaining level to offer solutions. Take the problems that arose with seasonal work as a result of the Work and Security Act. This is now being looked at at collective bargaining. The solution must be found in the polder. Take the subject of pay in the event of illness, perhaps the subject we have talked about most about in this house. To this end, it is a standing road for small employers to hire people. This is a reason that older people do not get to work on the labour market. It's a subject where PvdA and VVD didn't come out together. A proposal from an opposition party had to be made to allow the polder, often criticized by Mr Mulder, to offer the solution. So: criticism of the polder may, modernisation of collective agreements must, but some modesty fits us too, especially the VVD. For solutions, the polder is often looked at. I'm closing up. Steps must be taken in the field of intersectoral training, a subject on which I have tabled several motions with Mr Van Weyenberg. The same applies to the debate on older workers. A move must be made so that the added value in an organisation becomes more central. That's important. I would also like to end with a hopeful feeling. I refer to the fact that the CDA Group's proposal has been embraced in the Social Affairs budget, has been vigorously picked up by the Minister and is already with the ESC. Trade unions and employers have indicated that they want to give this a serious chance. I hope that this is a first step in the modernisation process, with which the polder once again shows that the strength of our economy comes from that polder model.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u28	I was very curious today about the position of the CDA. The CDA has a history of positions on collective agreements. Minister De Geus has sometimes used the general declaration as a threat. If there were no wage moderation, he would not declare collective agreements universally binding. A predecessor of Mr Heerma, Mr Van Hijum, said that he wanted to make more tailor-made collective agreements possible by making exceptions to collective agreements easier. Where is the CDA at the moment? I have the feeling that the most important thing is that it should be left to the polder and that the views of the past have fallen. I would like to be clear about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u29	I hope that Mr Mulder has listened carefully to my input, because that is the position of the CDA in this debate. The core of this is: collective agreements and the polder model are the unique elements that have made the Dutch economy so powerful over the years, but they do need to be reformed. My predecessor Eddy van Hijum has indeed made several proposals for this. I have wished Mr Mulder some modesty in my speech. In recent years it has often been opposition parties, such as D66 and the CDA, who have come up with proposals to break down labour market problems. That's what's going on with the problems...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u31	I am asked for my position. I'm just gonna finish my answer, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind. The Work and Security Act deals with proposals on seasonal work problems. The proposals to break the deadlock there came from the CDA, D66 and other opposition parties. The VVD was quiet. The VVD has been shouting tough things about pay-as-you-go for three years, but hasn't done anything. The proposals to solve it came from the CDA. The opposition parties were critical of the 600 million for sector plans, which do not create jobs. The VVD waited until the money was spent and then became critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u33	When it comes to intersectoral training, all proposals have also come from the opposition and not from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr. Chairman. It is always good to see why this debate is taking place again. This debate was held in February 2015 by D66. 169 collective agreements had been concluded and only 14 new agreements had been concluded. That was cause for concern, in my opinion, to everyone, no matter how much your love of collective agreement is, or how small it is, I must say for some parties. With my party, as we know, the love of collective bargaining is quite great. That's also because of history, because of the powers it gives our economy. Where do we stand? There may be more recent figures, but 252 collective agreements had already been concluded in mid-September 2015. According to the AWVN, the employers' organisation, that was a very normal pattern. This concern must therefore be partly removed from the parties who have requested this debate. Will the debate be ready? No, it's not ready. There are still quite desirable improvements and I think we can learn. There is no such thing as a collective agreement. Very different collective agreements are currently being concluded. Moreover, we also see that the collective agreement is modernising at a slightly higher rate than some parties want or dare to believe. We can learn from these examples. We can take advantage of it here in the Chamber. There's still a big issue left. That is the great wringing moment that Mr Heerma has already witnessed: the relationship between the zzp-ship and the employeeship and the interaction that that has between the zzp'ers and the collective agreement. Here we also have a responsibility for these industrial relations. It's true that it's colliding in this house. It is true that a large task has been entrusted to the ESC for this purpose. It is true that those parties have also said that they are taking that up. I think that's a great thing in this country. In my opinion, everyone realizes that we need to speed that up, whatever color you are in this house, whatever union you're a member of and whether you're an employer or not. I see hopeful signs, also in the newly concluded collective agreements, even when it comes to greater flexibility, including in pools in collective hospitals. That's how we see things that go forward. So I would not like to talk about the politics, not about the collective agreement and not about the polder, because there is a great diversity and a responsibility that we all bear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mrs Vermeij leaves me in some confusion about what she thinks. She says there is a lot of progress, but after years of talking, even in this Chamber, 86% of R&D funds still do not allow the employee to retrain to another sector. Over the last ten years, the number of collective agreements with older people has fallen from 75% to 71%. Then Mrs Vermeij cannot be satisfied with the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u36	The pace may be higher, but I also see a large collective agreement with a very large training programme. It was also decided to reduce those days of the elderly. I also see an exchange, sometimes between extra days and the minimum youth wage. In such examples, I see that this movement is being made, whether or not it is inspired by the debate we are having here. I realise that we still have a great deal to do about education, not only in collective agreements and not only in the R & D funds, but also in our own education system. And this house isn't moving fast either, I'm just gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u37	I am glad that Mrs Vermeij admits that the pace has to go up. As far as I am concerned, the purpose of this debate is: how do we get that pace up? I hope that Mrs Vermeij will take a favourable look at the motions I will table in the second term. Let us take up this collective agreement. Yes, something happens there, but Mrs Vermeij can't be satisfied with me if the last days of age there disappear in 2032?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u38	Major steps are being taken in this collective agreement, where, by the way, there is a much greater problem than those days of the elderly, namely the number of people who drive around without the right, without disability insurance and without retirement. I would like to focus on that issue. I think it is incredibly important that we resolve this with each other and take that responsibility. Mr Van Weyenberg and I really disagree. This responsibility belongs not only to politics, but also to employers and workers. I'm glad that responsibility is shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u39	That's why I said I'm okay with hanging out. As the polder calls on us to speed things up, I will call on the Minister in the second term to do so much more effectively with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u40	Madam President. An important part of this debate is about the relationship between employers and employees. Reverend Kersten, who was MP for the SGP for many years in the past, thought that "employer" was actually a wrong term. He thought you shouldn't talk about an employer, someone who would give you a job, but rather used the word "pattern," patron. There's the word "pater," Father. That is a very different way of dealing with employees. In fact, you don't really need a collective agreement when employers become more patronized and take real responsibility? Fortunately, I see a lot of employers in this country who do. If employers and employees trust each other and make good agreements with each other, isn't it possible to do so without a collective agreement? If there is a collective agreement, this could undermine employers' own responsibility. Then you can get the mechanism that employers think: there is a collective agreement and I will do it; I will look at exactly what is there and stop thinking. That's not really what we want here. We want employers to assume their own responsibilities in view of the situation in which they find themselves. Does the Minister see that point? Mrs Vermeij, I can see her walking to the interrupting microphone and I will say: yes, but history has shown that you need collective agreements to prevent abuses. Whether that necessarily means that you also need them in the future is the question, but at least there are very strong indications in history. There were problems where you really needed the collective agreement. That's the other side of the story. I think Mrs Vermeij wanted to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u41	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u42	Now I have two questions! I found the introduction to Mr Dijkgraaf's speech interesting. It may be slightly philosophical, but the word "pattern" also refers to "master." It also has something above it. Mr Dijkgraaf says that on the basis of trust, you should not really need a collective agreement, but something else precedes it. It should be based on a totally equal relationship between pattern and employee. Is it there in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u43	The answer is diverse. I meet employers who do so during work visits, where there is a discussion in equivalence, but I also come to companies where I very much wonder if that is the case. My ideal union is the RMU. Everyone's gonna know it. Mr Schalk, who will also have met the Minister in the First Chamber, is the director of this. The great thing about the RMU as a trade union is that there is already an internal balance between employers and employees. They are both represented in different parts and are already trying to make the internal assessment. The conflict model has been discussed here; Mr Heerma also mentioned it. In my view, a renewal of the trade unions is necessary in order to maintain the right elements, maintain the value of trade unions and prevent us from ending up in a situation in which the real problems are not solved. I believe that the integrated model of balancing interests is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u44	I have a brief follow-up question, Mr President, because you have called on us to be strict with ourselves. This means that the internal balance must take place in equivalence. I note, by the way, that there is a diverse picture. Mr Dijkgraaf says that there are good examples, but that does not mean that we have recently been able to see a broadcast of cleaners in the hotel industry whose hourly wage was simply not paid, who had no right to stand up to their pattern. That world is still far from the beautiful model that Mr Dijkgraaf is now presenting to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yes, but my party, too, I think Mrs Vermeij's, but from a different perspective, it is such that we should not lose sight of the ideal and not throw the child away with the bath water. If that's your ideal, you shouldn't look up that conflict model any further. Then you have to look for solutions where you get that integral balance, not only within the companies, but also within the unions. That's where I see the conflict model. I have had a lot of debates in recent years about, for example, a social agreement or a pension agreement concluded by employers and employees. But if we then wanted to transpose that into legislation here, we were being harassed by trade unions: how do you manage to vote for it, it is scandalous that you do so. Their own signature was underneath. Then I think: yes dear people, it is all beautiful, but then take your own responsibility and stand in front of the matters you meet. Otherwise, we will move towards a model of conflict, not only between employers and employees, but also between trade unions and politics. I don't know what's left of the polder model, but I wouldn't want that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u46	Are you going any further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u47	I have also included some of my comments in my replies. You'll be pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u48	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u49	Trade unions must be renewed to prevent us from returning to a unionless era. That is my position, and that is what others are saying. The latter could be the outcome, and that is not our preference. Does the Minister see enough perspective? Does he see enough movement? I look at the role played in the discussion on pensions, on chain contracts, on pay transfers, on employees versuszzp'ers and on flexible versus fixed, then I do have my concerns. How does the Minister, recognising the responsibility of trade unions, recognise the text in the letter is clear to further stimulate that process? I have two more points. A general declaration may be refused on grounds of conflict with the general interest. Then I think: ha, that's nice; that's such a broad container concept that you can actually put everything underneath it. The risk is that you say: that's so dangerous, I don't want to burn my fingers on it; if they come out, I'm never gonna do it because it's too dangerous. How does the Minister deal with this in practice? Does that really have matter or is it a dead letter? I'm a little scared of the latter and that's not good. I do think that we in the Chamber, and in the first instance the Minister, should have the courage to say, if that is necessary for the general good, that we do not do so. How's the Minister handling that? I come to my final point. There has, of course, been some discussion, to use a euphemism, about the research and response of scientists. As far as I'm concerned, it's a fine letter. I'm not gonna pry into it; things like that happen. I find the reaction of Professor Gautier of the VU in Amsterdam, a leading scientist, striking. He says: it is remarkable that the international literature has not even been studied, although it does say very relevant things about the effects of a general binding declaration and that there is no quantitative research, but only qualitative research. I would like to hear from the Minister about both of them why this consideration has been made. If you can examine it quantitatively, it is always preferable, regardless of budgetary consequences. And that international literature would always want to map you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. When we talk about the labour market, the VVD is about creating more permanent jobs. Fortunately, according to the UWV last week, there are also more jobs: 129,000 if you also count the number ofzzp'ers. However, two thirds of those jobs are flexible. I have already said this: the number of permanent jobs in the Netherlands is falling below 5 million. The UWV also warned about long-term unemployment among older people. "No hooray mood," it literally said. Why are there so many flexible jobs and why do we have such persistent long-term unemployment? This is because of the fixed contract that many obligations are attached to for entrepreneurs. And the collective agreements do a little bit on top of that with super-statutory supplements, with pay-per-payment in case of illness and with, say, age-dependent arrangements, such as senior days. We discussed this in the budget debate. The Minister will talk to the polder about tackling older people's unemployment and about pay-as-you-go in the event of illness. Before the summer he will come forward with proposals. As far as the VVD is concerned, he makes it generally binding as a stick behind the door. If this consultation does not yield enough before the summer, he can say that this is not enough, I am going to declare a number of collective agreements relating to them non-generally binding. As far as we are concerned, the Minister, like Minister De Geus did in 2004, uses it as a stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u51	Let me get this straight. Sick pay has been pushed forward in the coalition like a hot potato for three years. Last autumn there seemed to be a proposal from the cabinet that did not really mean much. Then it was said from Social Affairs, on a proposal from the CDA: polder, please go and solve it, because the coalition is not coming out. Now Mr Mulder says: we didn't get out for three years, but if the polder doesn't solve our problem, we're going to declare it non-generally binding. Is that the summary of this story?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u52	A few things have happened. A motion, the Roemer/Zijlstra motion, on payment of wages in the event of illness, has been tabled and adopted at the latest General Political Reviews on the Millions Note. A number of other motions have also been tabled. We are waiting for it to be implemented, and we are adding that these super-statutory additions, too, should be taken into account. Companies are reluctant to hire people because they run risks when someone gets sick. These collective agreements are a step in the right direction. So, Minister, take that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u53	In short, the summary is correct. The fact remains, however, that the polder, the ESC, has to solve the problem that the VVD has been calling a lot about over the past year, but has not provided a solution. Does Mr Mulder's contribution not include a compliment to the social partners that they are prepared to see how they can solve the problems of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u54	We have no objection whatsoever to the Economic and Social Council conducting this investigation, but we are also looking at the Roemer/Zijlstra motion, which encourages the Minister to find a solution in conjunction with small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u55	I have the feeling that this is a repetition of the budgetary procedure. Mr Mulder, out of big words in the media, is asking very mildly here: Minister, would you please take another look at something, if you could, perhaps, thank you. How does Mr Mulder assess policy in relation to collective agreements and inciting the Minister? I will only stay in the atmosphere for a moment: will the Minister be able to act in favour of modernising collective agreements, a sufficient one from Mr Mulder or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u56	I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg is longing back to last year. We are looking quietly at what the Minister has promised on the occasion of this motion for a resolution, namely what will happen before the summer. As far as we are concerned, the Minister keeps this above the market and we are going to look at it again before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u57	This is again typical call-pull policy of the VVD. Big words in the media, but here again just wagging. I repeat my question. If the Minister does not do so in a moment and does not say that if the collective agreement is not modernised, then what is Mr Mulder's conclusion? Is that okay with him or is that bad for him? I'd like to get a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u58	This question has been asked several times before. I replied at the time: the Minister is coming forward with measures before the summer and we are going to assess them. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u59	However, Mr Mulder himself had announced measures. On 5 February last year he wrote in an article in Trouw that he would come forward with an initiative proposal to ban certain collective agreements. Where's the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u60	I am glad that Mr Ulenbelt is asking for that. This concerned collective agreements which restrict the hiring of flexible workers, temporary workers andzzp'ers. For example, the dairy collective agreement states that only 10% of the work can be done by flexible workers, who are not at the table themselves. I'm working on that bill that's all but a hair filled. However, the Minister said last year: there is something to that, such as international treaties. So you can't just intervene on that; that's what you need to back up. The initiative proposal is now almost ready. It's not just about the number of restrictions, it's about more. Sometimes there are demands forzzp'ers that they can't actually meet. Because the bill needs to see that too, it's a little complicated. However, I promise Mr Ulenbelt that it will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u61	I can feel him coming. Mr Mulder is in the process of drafting a bill which is contrary to international treaties. This is also about the freedom of negotiation contained in human rights treaties. Mr Mulder is addressed by employers: Anne, don't touch the collective agreement; it's ours. Why should a liberal party introduce the proposal for state intervention into the collective agreement, when all the collective bargaining parties are very satisfied? So why is Mr Mulder such a rabid anti-employer, anti-worker and anti-liberal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Ulenbelt says a lot. He says I'd like to file a bill that violates international treaties. I don't think that's very convenient. I do not expect that to happen either, because if a bill is not valid, there is no point in submitting it. Mr Ulenbelt must choose his words carefully. He speaks of "action in the collective agreement." The VVD does not want to intervene in the collective agreement, but says: let the parties enter into collective bargaining agreements. Pay attention to that limitation with regard tozzp'ers. We are talking about making this collective agreement universally binding, which also applies to people who are not members of one of the parties to the agreement. This is not so much an intervention in negotiating freedom as a non-binding declaration. However, this freedom of negotiation remains in place. Why do we want to do that? See the major problem of older people's unemployment. We talk about this all the time. Then we come here with premium discounts to make the elderly more attractive. In fact, this is what we are repairing in part what these collective agreements cause, namely that older people are becoming more expensive. So we're fixing what these parties are doing. It is therefore also in the public interest to intervene. After all, we all want older people to get to work, don't we? I will continue my speech. The report has already been mentioned. Research organisation Panteia has been investigating this for two years following a motion by D66 and the VVD. We think it is fair that the Minister has sent comments from experts to the Chamber. However, the report was carried out on the basis of interviews with people who are themselves involved in collective agreements. In doing so, I got the following feeling: we at WC-EEND advise WC-EEND. My impression is that the report incorporates the criticism of those experts in footnotes. See, for example, footnote 4 on page 15, which literally states: "There is no hard effectiveness study, which also affects the irrefutableness of the conclusions'. Footnote 2 on page 4 deals with the so-called insider-outsider problem. That is jargon of the fact that collective agreements are concluded by people who work, and those who are unemployed can suffer because, for example, they are too expensive. That, too, is literally stated in that footnote. This is not the subject of research, which is the issue of older people's unemployment. Senior days are nice when you have a job, but when you're unemployed, you're too expensive. This importance must also play a role in this. In this context, I have questions for the Minister. Does he intend to investigate the effects on the so-called outsiders, such as the unemployed and start-ups, and inform the Court of Justice about this? I also have questions about the so-called review framework. There is a whole debate going on about more customization. The common thread of the round table conversation was that everyone felt that there should be more customization. But how exactly? There have been suggestions for this and my question is whether the Minister would like to show them: what possibilities are there for more tailor-made work? Should you then perhaps do something with the review framework of declaring the universally binding and the dispensation? I would like a response from the Minister. I agree with the comments on education. Our spokesperson, Anne-Wil Lucas, did so last week in general consultation on Living Long Learning. I understand that a number of parties who have just spoken the highest word about training were not present, but that aside. We are curious about the answers to the questions that have just been asked about making training more possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u63	I have a question on Mr Mulder's previous point. He referred to the cost of work, to the footnote and to the documents of the professors sent to us later. Those pieces aren't numbered. I believe that Professor Gautier's contribution contains a remarkable passage to which that footnote refers. That passage is about statistical discrimination. That's what economists always have to pay great attention to. The passage is about immigrant young people: "For example, if this group does not speak the language on average, employers will be less likely to invite these young people to a job interview (even those who speak the language well).' That is the statistical discrimination. "These young people could actually benefit from a low starting salary" "outside the collective agreement" "so that they can at least get a foothold in the door." What does Mr Mulder think of this passage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u64	That particular passage is about outsiders. If I understand Mr Gautier correctly, he says: because collective agreements are above the minimum, and because a number of people unfortunately do not have the productivity to achieve this, they are thrown out of the labour market. I think that's exactly what this group is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u65	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u66	This should therefore be examined by the Minister: are these groups the victims of these collective agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u67	Sure. And would those groups benefit more? Then we're going to give immigrants a lower starting salary outside the collective agreement, because they'd be entering the labour market. You must read what it says. It's about bringing supply and demand together; that's economical. However, what you read here does not seem to me to be just statistical discrimination; that seems to me to be just discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u68	I do not think Mr Gautier means discrimination. It is precisely at the heart of the collective agreement problem: there are people whose productivity is disproportionate to the wage agreed in collective agreements. These collective agreements therefore make them too expensive, but of course you should never distinguish between different groups. You have to pay for the same work the same way, but this is something to take with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u69	That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate, which has already been mentioned, is concerns about the collective agreement season a year ago. At that time, it seemed that there were hardly any collective agreements. The language and the atmosphere were grim. The Chamber asked for a letter and a debate. The phenomenon of the urgent debates means that one can now see a year later that the collective agreement season has turned out well. The figures even show that it was a normal season. However, the debate obviously has more significance, and that was also apparent in the first term. It is important to also look at the collective agreement system, and that is why I outlined in the November letter a number of developments which, in my view, affect the current collective agreement system. Last year the Chamber also held a round table or a hearing on the subject. This means that we can now have a nice, rich and well-informed discussion. In my letter, I offered the study Effects of the General Declaration of Region Plan, which is a result of a previous motion of D66. In this way, we can now have a coherent debate. Last week, I sent a letter to the Chamber about the state of affairs surrounding the reaction of four professors. Unfortunately, I noticed that the papers had not been given to the Chamber. That is why I apologized to the Chamber for that. The Chamber has still received information and correspondence. I hope that the Chamber will accept that there is no deeper strategy, but that sometimes things are not going well. That's my fault; that's why I apologize. I think the Chamber knows me well enough to know that this is not the custom and that I am therefore doing my best to prevent it. I am pleased to note that there is a collective agreement in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u71	Is the Minister going to go into the questions I asked about the investigation later?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u72	Sure. Mr Mulder asked questions about Gautier's contribution. Mr Van Weyenberg asked questions about a passage in the e-mail I sent yesterday. I am going to treat all of this neatly, but in order to start the debate with a clean slate, I wanted to mention this. We can now look at the nature of the case itself. If you listened with some distance to the first term, you heard a symphony of different praises on the collective agreement. That's a good thing. It is really good that there is so much support for this in this Chamber. The collective agreement is in fact uncontested. Yes, there is a discussion about whether the modernisation is being done properly. Yes, there is discussion about a number of substantive elements that we find in many collective agreements. Yes, there has been discussion since the introduction of the Global Connecting Statement. However, this Chamber is unisono in its support for the collective agreement, and that is right, because the importance of the collective agreement is beyond doubt. It is a system that has brought and brings to the Netherlands a great deal. It ensures a stable socio-economic development. It ensures stable industrial relations. It provides work rest, something that employers also love very much, I would like to emphasise. It also generally provides for balanced agreements on wage developments. It is also important in the context of decent work, of a decent labour market. The Chamber knows that this is one of the priorities during our Presidency of the European Union. We want to ensure that there is a fair playing field and that employees cannot be eliminated by allowing others to pay below agreed wages. In this respect, I would like to point out to the PVV, which is enthusiastic about the collective agreement but not about the general declaration of avv, that following the PVV's proposal would mean that there will always be a migrant worker willing to compete against the minimum wage with Dutch workers, who are covered by a collective agreement. So I think it is extremely bad to follow the PVV's proposal, because it creates unfair competition between workers, undermines the position of workers and distorts the labour market, not only in the Netherlands but in fact in Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u73	The Minister is challenging me a little bit. That's great. He forgets to mention in his story that it is the PvdA, with this cabinet, that leaves the boundaries open and that that is a condition for his PVV story to come true. So close the borders, then we don't have any problem with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u74	We've seen this before. This is what we're used to. Whenever I speak to a representative of the PVV, I hear: all problems are the fault of others. That is the case now. However, we are in a situation in which the PVV proposes that collective agreements should no longer be made universally binding. All I do is tell Mr De Graaf that he will then organise that people who are used to the Bulgarian minimum wage will always be willing to work under collective agreements. That's what he's suggesting. He has no choice but to withdraw that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u75	No. Words are being put in my mouth. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is very good at sketching a particular picture. Fine, we all do that in politics. But, again, the story the minister tells isn't fair. That's what I want to say. We have always said: close the borders, including for migrant workers from Eastern Europe, because then you will not have this problem. It is precisely the minister who can do something about it, but he refuses. Then don't let him blame the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mr De Graaf has to know for himself. He insists that he considers it wise to abolish the protection of each employee from being paid in accordance with the collective agreement. I do not have the impression that there is a majority in the Chamber for that, and that is a good thing. I know that there is always a tendency, if you do not have the majority, to threaten with a rebellion, I hope: a non-violent.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So we're just sticking to the facts. The fact that the collective agreement and the Dutch system are so important does not mean that there is only reason for hosanna. I wouldn't suggest that. Mrs Vermeij rightly said that the collective agreement does not exist. You can see huge differences. There are differences between sectors. There are differences in the way collective agreements reflect the changing labour market. In one collective agreement there is a high degree of customization and in the other collective agreement to a much lesser extent. In some cases this possibility is limited, but in many cases there is. It is also important to consider the role of the government. That was also well discussed in the debate. That role is a peripheral role. The social partners make their own arrangements. The Law on collective agreements and the Law on the universally binding and non-binding provisions of collective agreements are therefore of an orderly nature. So the government can't just intervene. Retention in intervention in contract and negotiation freedom is required if the law is to be observed. There hasn't been anyone here to argue for intervention. It has been said: you could point out that possibility or threaten it. However, I have not heard a plea for intervention in contractual freedom. I admit I saw Mr Ulenbelt's exercise flirting with that idea. However, I now choose to count the blessings in the Chamber. The PVV says: let's stop that avv's and then we'll see who wants to work for the lowest wage. Other parties have not argued in favour of this. I am going to go into this in more detail, also in the light of the problems outlined in relation to intersectoral training, the position of older people in the labour market, payment of wages and the current path in the Economic and Social Council. I would like to take one more look at the 2015 collective agreement. It all went well in the end, but it was not an easy year. That's not surprising either. We are coming out of a deep crisis and we have had a time of fairly radical reforms carried out by this Chamber. I call the Work and Security Act and the Law approach bogus constructions. Labour market developments were intense. Think of migration and the tempestuous rise of thezzp'er. These are all factors that have put pressure on the collective bargaining process. That is why it really started very slowly and there was the necessary weapon clatter, to quote the shooter's pit. Both sides of the negotiating spectrum, i.e. employers and employees, used great words, as we sometimes hear in politics. Sometimes, in pretty rough terms, there was talk about the other. I found that these statements did not lead to a failure. That was a threat a year ago. That feeling crept up on us back then. I think there was a lot at stake and that you saw that in those violent statements. In the meantime, we must also note that employers and employees agree on the need to reform collective agreements in terms of content, form and process. I think that the first term of the Chamber and the line of the cabinet can be very much in line with that. It does not mean the same for all sectors. The position of older people is not the same in all sectors. The major developments call for reform. That's what the system can offer. Social partners have taken responsibility over the past year and, although sometimes delayed, have concluded collective agreements. In addition, these major developments are also very acute in 2016. We see fragmentation, labour market change, decentralisation and regionalisation. These are all trends that the collective agreement should deal with. For industrial relations, fragmentation means that collectives are under pressure. This brings the demand for representation back on the table over and over again, not only in the Chamber, but also at the negotiating table itself. There is also the question of how central agreements are dealt with. What do they mean in sectors that are still decentralised? What is the situation with regard to the acceptance of a sector-cao when it is dictated, above all, by the larger companies? Is it still representative of the smaller companies in the sector? So you can see that the question of representativeness is topical both on the employee and on the employer side. In terms of labour market development, the phenomenon ofzzp is, of course, obvious. Zzp and other forms of flexible work are not always placed in traditional industrial relations. Competition and cost considerations above can also lead to false structures and false self-employment. This could put pressure on the collective agreement itself, particularly at the bottom of the labour market. In addition, the negotiators at the collective bargaining table will need to find answers to internationalisation and robotisation more quickly. I think that because of the increasing regionalization of labour markets, you sometimes see tension between sectoral collective agreements, where there is a fence around which they are at odds with what you would like to meet in a region. It is crucial to make progress in this regard. That is why we are discussing with the Labour Foundation the broadening of regional labour market policies and the role of the R&D funds. The role of R&D funds is, of course, crucial for intersectoral training. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. When we look at the research into the effects of the general binding declaration, following the 2013 Van Weyenberg motion, we see that the researchers themselves already give a disclaimer in this research. It's not a quantitative investigation. It's more of a quality research.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u77	Is the Minister going to answer all these questions? That is the intention of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u78	To all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u79	This is a fine reflection of the Minister on the need for renewal of the entire polder landscape, which I believe is also widely shared. I wonder if it's just a reflection. Does the Minister also see a role for himself to speed up this whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u80	Sure. I do. I am talking very intensively to the social partners about the changes that are needed and about the challenges that the labour market is now creating and we need to respond to. The process of tackling long-term unemployment and unemployment among older people requires the utmost of all of us. I promised the Chamber I'd make proposals and get the Central Planning Office to look into that. I would also like to talk to the social partners about this, because the solution can not only come from this, but must also come from the social partners. Everyone feels the urgency of that problem. That is a problem that is partly cultural in nature. Over the past few years, a group of people have been on the streets who are difficult to get in the way again. Part of it is structural and international. After all, you can see that older workers, especially middle-class workers, are dealing with a lot of administrative functions, which are incredibly difficult to cope with in a rapidly changing labour market. In part, there are also national elements, such as the choices made in the Netherlands and our arrangements for payment in case of illness. All these elements have a role to play in this and should therefore also be on the table. Another element that some of the more right-wing parties are less keen to hear is, of course, the possibility of the self-employed without staff as an alternative to the employee. That too must be acknowledged if you are to reach a sensible set of agreements on this issue. And yes, I clearly see a role for myself in that. I have accepted the opportunity offered by the budget debate to go to the Economic and Social Council with both hands. Shortly before Christmas, I asked the ESC to work on this. I'm sitting on the finch rope to see how I can help, speed up and move on what comes out. I have kept Mr Mulder's interim report very well. It's framed on the wall. So I know exactly what I'm up to. If I want to pass in the summer, this is one of the important subjects in which I take my exams. I do not do that for Mr Mulder, because we do not learn for school, but for life: non schoenae sed vitae discimus. We do this because there are a lot of Dutch people who are dying to get to work. That's a very big problem, so I'm working on it with heart and soul.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u81	That's good to hear. How does the Minister experience the trial on his side? I'd like to know. My colleagues and I have shared experiences from the past. Sometimes we have seen the trade unions in particular as a defensive force for innovation. I have also quoted the example of a social agreement which the trade unions themselves signed, but which they then protested at when it was materialized. That is not a desirable development. How does the Minister, given his current experience, view the future in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u82	Short response, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u83	Too bad, Chairman. You can see on that plane that the heart follows the hand. Some appointments are so taken from your heart that you continue to defend them with fire. But a social agreement is by definition a compromise, so there are always agreements about which you are less enthusiastic. I have seen that workers tend to walk away from that sometimes. I also see that there are employers in the Netherlands who have not integrated the social agreement into it and do not share its meaning every day either. I can see that. So I also understand the temptation to speak a little condescendingly, Mr Dijkgraaf certainly does not do that about the mess in the polder. The same is true of politics. People then have the feeling that nothing can be done there, that there is no change, that there is only discussion and that it is a talk club. Actually, it's almost a mirror. Mr Heerma also gave us a mirror on the way we sometimes talk about each other. If you look at the facts, at the major changes over the past two decades, you can see that although it has often been slower than you might want, it has always been possible in the Netherlands in the interaction of actors to make changes in consultation. This could include the WAO, the WW in 2006 and now again, and also the right of dismissal. The latter is very difficult after 70 years. On all these issues, we succeed in making these changes. This sometimes means that it takes longer, but also that it is not usually perfect agreements, because we are imperfect. However, in many countries around us, this capacity for change is looked at with great envy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u84	I suggest that you proceed and answer the questions of the members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u85	Mr President, I apologize. This debate is partly about concrete issues such as an investigation here and a motion there, but also about how you feel about the Dutch consultation model. I can hardly suppress my enthusiasm for the positive reviews on this model that I have heard here today. I'll try to do that. I call on Mr Ulenbelt to merge the Free Democratic Union with the SDAP into the Labour Party in 1946. In my opinion, Mr Van Weyenberg does not consider himself a PvdA member or a successor to the right of that party. So he has all the freedom to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u86	This is asking for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u87	Sure, but I do consider myself one of the heirs. I would like to invite the Minister to come and see the beautiful old campaign posters that are framed in our hallway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u88	Perhaps the Minister could hang it next to Mr Mulder's framed report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u89	The further decorating of the Hague office plots is harmless. An important objective of the general declaration is to prevent competition on terms of employment by undercutting non-attached employers and workers, and I look again at Mr De Graaf's report and to promote work rest. There is much to be said about the advantages and disadvantages of this instrument. That discussion has never been quieted since 1937. The question is legitimate as to whether the universally binding instrument is in line with changing labour market conditions. New forms of legal status, the transformation of labour into the provision of services, increased labour migration and the need for differentiation in working conditions call for this instrument to be reviewed over and over again. Exactly with this approach, this research was carried out through deskresearch and interviews with stakeholders, external experts and collective bargaining parties. In this context, there has been talk with opponents of the general declaration, with zzp'ers and with parties who have seen a dispensation request rejected in the past. It would then appear that the general declaration is generally regarded as positive. This has to do with the main objective of preventing under-bidding and contributing to the rest of the labour market. An important conclusion, however, is that the discussion on the RP cannot be separated from the discussion on the collective agreement as such. Where there is discontent with the avv, it is often a question of discontent with the collective agreement which has been declared generally binding. It is precisely when one feels that there is not enough customization or that too little is being done with the demands of time that the avv is perceived as oppressive. This is not surprising either, especially in view of the challenges outlined above which the collective agreement system represents in terms of representativeness. Fortunately, the social partners are aware of this. Referenda, online grassroots consultations and that kind of new and additional instruments are important in order to increase the acceptance of the collective agreement and thus also derived from the general binding declaration. I see that the general trends can also influence the valuation of the avv. So you can see that it is more exciting when a general statement is given at low representation figures. There is therefore a task for the parties to the underlying collective agreement to do everything in their power to achieve greater involvement in the sector. There will also be less discussion about the general declaration. The investigation concludes in general that the instrument of universally binding is functioning properly in the current system and therefore there is no reason for fundamental change. However, it appears difficult to separate it from the valuation of the collective agreement instrument. Recurrent sighs relate, among other things, to the insider-outsider problem. Mr Mulder was right to speak about this. This needs to be seen better, not so much in studies as at the collective bargaining tables. I am therefore not tired of arguing with collective bargaining parties that they have a responsibility to increase acceptance of the collective agreement. The professors who responded to the research have presented criticism of the research method, in particular of the fact that it is a qualitative study, in which you cannot support its effectiveness, empirically, with quantitative data. By the way, I read footnote 4 differently from Mr Mulder. I read above all that other effectiveness studies are also qualitative studies, but then about a larger group. Soon it'll look more quantitative. I read footnote 4 more as an observation that there is actually no empirical study. Before we enter into an interpretation debate on a footnote, I have heard Mr Mulder's request very well. The request is whether I want to see whether such an empirical study can still be carried out and whether, if possible, the insider-outsider problem can be involved. I understand that request. However, I cannot promise that I will do this, because I really need to see if and how that could be done. That is quite problematic. I admit that I will look at this with a positive approach. There's an inventory in the field of dispensation. That was a plea. We are looking at the use of dispensation options by collective bargaining parties. This must be achieved in the autumn. I think it's okay if I respond to that. Then I will also indicate how I, not as a person but institutionally, as a minister, deal with dispensation requests. Then you've got the whole picture. That says something about customization. This means that a three-pronged commitment can be noted. Firstly, in the short term, I will address the question of whether, and if so, how, a more empirical study of the general statement is possible. Secondly, it is important to involve the insider-outsider problem in the demand for a possible follow-up study. Thirdly, with regard to customization and dispensation, I would like to join the inventory that is currently under way and which needs to be produced this autumn. In addition, I will add to the dispensation monitor on the use of dispensation by collective bargaining parties an appreciation of the way in which the government handles it. Then there was a question about the CPB, following the mail that went out yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u90	Before you proceed, Mr Dijkgraaf has a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u91	The Minister for Foreign Affairs forgot a fourth commitment, namely an inventory of international literature, so that we can also use the wisdom that emerges from it. I am afraid that empirical analysis will not be easy, but we can also use international literature. At least we will know about international knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u92	Sure. That's why I just dug in footnote 4. I read in it that it is an appreciation of international literature and therefore a relativization of the possibilities of empirical research. So it's already included that you have to look at international literature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u93	So that's taken into account in the first commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u94	As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u95	I thank the Minister for the commitment. He spoke about the short-term in his first commitment. My group is curious when that will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u96	I should have known. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u97	We look forward to that. The Minister also says that there is an investigation into dispensation. Does he therefore want to look at the possibilities for more customisation, for example in the review framework and in the dispensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u98	I shall deal with it in a little more detail. Then I'll do more justice to this question. I tried to answer all the questions in one movement. That ambition you keep keeping, but of course that's not wise. So I'm going back to the quiet, step-by-step line. It shouldn't be too fast, such a debate. I hear you thinking, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the question of selective general binding. Politically speaking, there is also more difference of opinion on this. That was just the subject of the debate. Every now and then the question arises as to whether I should declare collective agreements generally binding which are not in line with government policy, which are not in line with my views or are not in line with the views of one or more political parties in the Chamber. Then there is the possibility of declaring selective or guiding universally binding: choosing from political reasons what you do and do not declare universally binding. I'm not for that. This is where restraint fits. If agreements have been made in a collective agreement which are legally permitted but which I do not like in policy terms, you will immediately end up in a very difficult political discussion, at the expense of the instrument itself. Mr Mulder always mentions the Zijlstra/Roemer motion. The authors of that motion agree that something should be done about payment of wages in the event of illness, point. I like to see Roemer and Zijlstra sitting in a room to come up with a proposal, but I don't expect much of it; you shouldn't hold your breath. This shows that political wishes for agreements in collective agreements may differ from one day to the next. A minister can have his private views on that. I also believe that Henk Kamp, my predecessor, never wanted to go along with a more direct use of the general statement. It is therefore not merely a matter of reducing to a liberal versus more social democratic or social division. I do not dare to place the CDA in that spectrum; it is always up to the CDA itself to place itself in any political spectrum. It shows you have to be very careful with that. It's an ultimum remedium, a horse medicine. It does not mean that it could never happen or that you should always rule it out for the future, but it fits with extreme restraint. It does not mean that we should not have an opinion here on a collective agreement, that I do not see a task for myself vis-à-vis the social partners, or that I do not see a right to interfere with our labour market in how social partners perceive their role. That's what I do, and that's what I consider my daily work. But declaring the guiding universally binding is really a horse's drug, the cure of which is almost always worse than the ailment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u99	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u100	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u101	I would also prefer it to be properly regulated in a collective agreement at once, but the Minister actually creates an opening when he says it is an ultimatum remedium. Well, it's possible sometimes. I think that we are gradually getting to that with the R&D funds, after five years of chamber motions, of which there were also some addressed to this minister. I understand the Minister when he says how complicated it is, but with these training funds it is possible, because that is a defined part of the collective agreement. So if in the coming months there is not a commitment from the polder to solve this, I would dare the theorem that on this very defined piece the ultimum remedium comes into view. Unfortunately, I'll add that to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u102	I would like to leave that for Mr Van Weyenberg. He draws that conclusion for his magical reasons, but it is a form of expropriation if you are going to use this political instrument to spend resources that have been raised by partners themselves in a different way. Let me say that I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that it is necessary that these training resources should be used more and more intersectorally. I am also talking about this with the social partners and I finally see an improvement in that. Moreover, I believe that it is always important that sector funds from sectors close to each other should engage in cooperation. Intersectoral training is most effective for people who already have the skills that suit a profession, so that someone can go from construction to engineering, for example. Thus, retraining is best in sectors close to each other, not for every education or training. For this I see a number of initiatives emerging, for example in the field of technology. I would also like to praise the work of the social partners in the framework of the sectoral plans. This has finally re-launched the infrastructure for intersectoral training. Hundreds of millions have been recovered from the R&D funds. Those hundreds of millions have made sure that there is much more intersectoral training than before. That is a gain from the sector-planning approach that is not felt in every debate in Parliament, and I understand that because there are other problems too, but it is a wonderful bycatch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u103	The word expropriation is really far from me. This is about explaining the general connection. This means imposing on non-attached employers something completely different, but that aside; the real solution is, of course, in self-training ads. My question to the Minister is: when will this be dealt with by the polder? At 85% of collective agreements it is still not possible in the R&D Fund. The minister says he's tasting progress. Why do the social partners not adapt these collective agreements before 1 October? If they don't want that, it's up to them, but then we're not going to make it universally binding anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u104	Why I don't, I've just explained in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u105	The minister just said something important. I think we all want more permanent jobs here. There are analyses on why that is so difficult to get off the ground. One of the reasons is the collective agreement that puts a shovel on top of it. The Minister said: I realize that, but I think that means too heavy to use. That then explains a huge responsibility on the part of the Minister to come out with the social partners. I wish him luck, because the options are getting less and less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u106	I can only thank Mr Mulder for his support. I think that this also applies to the beautiful Dutch tradition of finding each other in the event of very serious social problems. Whether we can do that or not, I don't know. This depends on the sense of responsibility of all parties involved. Especially when you talk to small employers, you notice that everyone sees that the costs and risks associated with payment of wages in case of illness, especially when it comes to the super-legal part, are felt and experienced as a huge millstone. That's obvious. Furthermore, I understand very well that workers say: every time the word'modernisation' is actually'search replace deterioration'. If you ask people if they're okay with turning things in and getting nothing in return, they say "no" at first, which I do understand. There is therefore also a need for confidence that employers who are going to provide permanent jobs and that it does not lead to the replacement of people by self-employed or cheaper labour. So you feel very clearly on the one hand the agreement in the interests and on the other the differences. I very much agree with Mr Mulder that this is an urgent issue for which a solution must be found. We have not yet managed to do this together and I do not give up hope either, because I am working on the work of the Roemer/Zijlstra motion, which Mr Heerma describes as small. As everyone knows, a 1,000-mile journey also starts with a step, but it can be very worthwhile. It would be wonderful if you could come up with a sounding result. I like to work on that. I am going to deal with the subject of customization in dispensation a little more extensively, apparently. Research carried out by the AWVN in May 2014 indicates that all collective agreements actually contain provisions that can lead to differentiation or customization. The pattern, to which the SGP referred, I think it will be a good idea that even if there are less good employers, they cannot make life difficult for him by underpayment and that there is still plenty of room for that pattern to be able to do the more, the better but also the more targeted with his employees. Good employership is an open standard in civil law for a reason. This is not easy to define, it depends very much on how employers and employees deal with it. I know, fortunately, also examples of employers who fill in this patronage or matronate in a nice way. As far as the worker is concerned, there is also an emancipation side, in the sense that he does not have to depend on the goodness, the charitas or the patronage, but that he can defend his rights and he can stop if those rights are not respected, so he can force him to be treated properly at the collective bargaining table. Following Mrs Van Nieuwenhuizen's motion from the VVD Group, we investigated the number of minimum and standard cao's in 2014. In almost all collective agreements, you see a variety of customized arrangements. You can also see that standard cao's contain provisions that allow for different agreements, even with regard to the function classification and the remuneration systems. For example, the employer in the youth care sector can agree on an assessment scheme with the employer and may, with the agreement of the employer, make the annual increase dependent on the assessment. I mention this example because I know that Mr Mulder sees a greater role for the works council. Within some standard cao's that is already made possible. Only the minimum and the maximum are fixed. There is a great deal of room in there to make agreements on the basis of the performance and with the agreement of the works council. In addition, you will see more and more personal selection budgets for employees. About 20% of collective agreements concluded last year have such budgets; think of the publishing world, where there is a personal choice budget of 12% of the gross annual salary that can be used for training, additional training or leave. One can see through the online application what such a choice means for the net salary. A career budget is built up by employees in collective welfare and social services. In addition, an individual selection budget of 18% of the annual salary applies. You can also see such a budget in the construction sector. The senior days form a special category. In some collective agreements there are indeed a lot of senior days. There are now agreements on phasing-out. You could say, "What's taking you so long?" However, it is once again possible to agree on this subject with the parties who conclude the collective agreements. It is therefore simply that there is room for tailor-made collective agreements, but it may of course be that some companies need more tailor-made work, because the application of the industry-cao that works well for other parties in the industry is hard for them. Therefore, collective agreements may contain a dispensation clause in order to remain wholly or partially excluded from the collective agreement agreements. In order to promote the transparency of this dispensation, the review framework avv was changed in 2014 so that such dispensation provisions only occur if they are transparent. Only then can you obtain a generally binding dispensation clause. At that time, I also agreed to keep an eye on that for two years to see the impact of the transparency requirement, which is why I can offer the results to the Chamber this autumn. In intermediate measurements we see that transparent dispensation provisions are indeed included, for example in the metal industry, the phasing-out, welfare, ggz, childcare and health care. There you can see how a dispensation request can be made, what conditions it must meet, what procedure there is and what the deadlines are, and that a written reasoned decision must be taken on such a request. An example of a more detailed elaboration offers the collective agreement metal and technology. A dispensation request must contain a reason, a justification, a period and a position of employee representation. In addition, it describes the documents to be submitted by the applicant if the business situation is mentioned as the basis for a dispensation application. With the results of the intermediate measurement, we're not here. In the end, my aim is that any collective agreement which has been declared generally binding should contain a transparent dispensation clause. Ideally, the collective agreement provides a framework for a sector as a whole. Within such collective agreements, modern collective agreements should, in my view, already contain tailor-made provisions. If the agreements are too tight, the rules of the game and the grounds for asking for dispensation must be clear in the collective agreement. For example, a party who runs into it knows what it is up to him or her to do to make use of it. As a valve on that system, the Minister has an additional dispensation option, whereby dispensation can be granted if application of the industry-cao by heavy arguments cannot reasonably be required by avv. The case law on this point shows that such a decision by the Minister generally stands, both on appeal and on appeal. In any case, you can say something about the care with which that instrument is used. So my commitment is now more colourful. The use of dispensation options to promote tailor-made work for those companies who experience too much burden or strain of collective agreements at collective bargaining level, in the more transparent provision, and at the level of the Minister's use of the instrument can be shared with the Chamber in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr Mulder, I see you walking to the interrupting microphone. This is really your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u108	It's a deal, Mr. Chairman. The Minister gave a detailed account of his intention to make the dispensation more transparent. We are very much in favour of that. My question is whether he also wants to make more customization possible and promote it in the framework of the General Connecting Declaration of collective agreements which includes the dispensation policy. Making transparent is fine, but see how you can promote more customisation by adjusting the review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u109	That is why I have just made a distinction between tailor-made collective agreements and almost all collective agreements contain this possibility and the tailor-made approach to completely depart from the collective agreement itself. The social partners themselves must provide for the first point. That's what's gonna happen. They are, of course, their own move to implement that. On the second point, I felt with the Chamber that the use of that instrument was too intransparent. Sometimes the possibility of dispensation was not known or the procedure was unclear. Then, of course, you run the risk that parties who have an interest in doing so will use that dispensation instrument in this way. As far as I am concerned, all collective agreements which have been declared generally binding have an agreement on dispensation. This means that there are always opportunities to come out under a generally binding collective agreement, but for good reason and for good reason. This should be done in a transparent manner, with all the due diligence that goes with it. I think that, if you look at the content, that is in line with Mr Mulder's speech. Without using the instrument itself politically, it will receive a guarantee, both towards employees and towards employers. The SP is concerned about the development of mini-bond collective agreements and the risk involved. A reverse negative reflex of discussions about representativeness is that you can make an appointment lightning fast with a tiny bond. I share his concerns about that development. I think it is important here too that the social partners have a good eye for sufficient support for the collective agreement. We've talked about this before. The Economic and Social Committee gave its opinion on that point in 2013. Since then, there has been no idleness. Several trade unions are working on ways to increase support. I will not repeat the examples I have just mentioned. The fact remains that collective agreements are collective agreements concluded by associations on behalf of their members. These more recent developments involving a minimum number of members in a collective agreement mean that I will have another discussion with the social partners on the subject. I would like to examine with them whether the application of the policy rules in the review framework is still sufficiently adapted to that development. However, I have my doubts about the proposal to impose quantitative requirements on the unions concerned, since this is at odds with the principle of the freedom of negotiation itself. Employers and employees must be able to decide for themselves who to conclude a collective agreement with. Every quantitative input from here has great risks. I think Mr Ulenbelt agrees with me. I am talking to the social partners about this issue of the mini-unions and the question of what it does with the support base.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u110	What does that mean for the retail collective agreement and the collective agreement in the supermarkets?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u111	That does not mean that I will now use the avv instrument politically, just as I do not want to do it at the request of Mulder and Van Weyenberg. If it complies with the existing rules, I will not deviate from them, because I am concerned about that development with you. Just as in the direction of VVD and D66, I say to the SP: the instrument and the system are so dear to me that I do not want to solve the problems that are now emerging by using that instrument, but I want to talk about what it does with the support for the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u112	This is not about the content of the collective agreement, it is about whether a minority of workers can reach a generally binding collective agreement against the wishes of the majority. That has to do with democracy. For this reason, I would like to call on the Minister to say here that he cannot declare such a collective agreement in the general interest, in order to maintain the avv, universally binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr Ulenbelt highlighted the question of public interest. There is no other way, because otherwise we can all call on the general interest at any time every day. Practice shows that the public interest is interpreted differently by the SP than by the VVD. That is a fact. The moment I start coloring that in, I find myself in a political coloring, and I have to be careful with that. Otherwise, my speech to the Liberals who are wondering whether you should declare all this universally binding is no longer consistent. Yeah, I have to. We have rules for that. It is not a question of expressing the political wishes of one, sometimes accidental majority or the other majority. I agree with the SP that collective agreements with these mini-bonds are dangerous and bad for the acceptance of the collective agreement. That is what I am talking about with the social partners. But be careful with the political use of the avv instrument. Following the e-mail that appeared yesterday in the context of the correspondence with the professor following the investigation into making it universally binding, Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the sentence about the Central Planning Bureau. What about that? The CPB has also received the draft research and has waived the possibility of responding to it, otherwise I would certainly have forwarded it to the Chamber. The CPB used it as input for its own research. The Planning Office is currently working on research into promising labour market policies Part 2. It is expected to be released in March, April. In this we may find traces of the regional plan research. Furthermore, there has been no CPB reaction to this Region Plan research. What is the state of play regarding the implementation of the third year of WW? I report on this in the annual report on collective agreements. I sent the 2014 one to the Chamber in November 2015. It states that 22 of the 50 agreements of principle mention possible adjustments to the WWS. In this context, Cao parties have agreed in particular that they will look at how they will set up the implementation of a possible third year of WW. I understand that the Labour Foundation is having talks with private performers in order to be able to carry out a third year. Next, I will also examine with the Labour Foundation what data of the UWV are necessary for this, of course within the framework of the law. You can also see that in a firm number of collective agreements concluded last year, agreements have been made to implement the Work and Security Act. Moreover, I do not agree with Mr Heerma that the fact that agreements are made in a collective agreement on, for example, tailor-made seasonal work is a correction. That's what it's meant to be. The law offers the possibility to deviate by collective agreement. I am only pleased when it is used, instead of always having to go through Parliament, a trend that I have also sensed. I think that does not mean that I have answered a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u114	Before you close, Mr Van Weyenberg would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u115	One question I haven't answered yet. I have expressed my concerns about the kind of pay gap you see in the Netherlands, where a 60's makes 60% more than someone who is at the end of 20. An employer can therefore employ three people under 30 instead of two people under 60. In other countries, such as Sweden and Finland, this is different, which means that these countries have much lower long-term unemployment among older people. The cabinet will then compensate for this, with the support of my party, with, for example, hiring bonuses for the elderly seeking work. I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on that. I do not think that is an optimal situation, and then I express myself very subtlely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u116	A brief reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u117	That's a fair point. I have not for nothing indicated how motivated I am to tackle the problem of long-term unemployment, especially among older workers, with the Chamber. There is much more to this than just the pay gap. You can see that prejudice plays a role. You can see perceived differences in costs and risks, you can see real differences in costs and positions and you can see structural changes in the labour market that affect that group, for example, the administrative professions of banks and insurers. So there is a multitude of factors that are now contributing to this, but that does not alter the urgency of the problem. It is true that unemployment in this age group is lower than among other groups, but you can see that people in that group, when they become unemployed, are long in unemployment and that the threat of getting into aid is very real, whereas we would like to use the strength of that group for our economy and not accept socially that such a large group is on the sidelines. So I very much agree with that. I just think it's more than just a pay gap, and I think Mr Van Weyenberg agrees with me. That is why, in the context of the debate on the collective agreement system, I did not think it was too easy for nothing to give an example of the tailor-made possibilities already available in collective agreements to make other wage agreements in order to put the elderly's unemployment entirely at the mercy of our collective agreement system. I do not think that was the thrust of Mr Weyenberg's speech either, but that is the reason for my somewhat hesitant reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u118	However, I would like to ask a question for clarification. There is now a real picture here as if older people earn three times as much as a 25-year-old, while for very large groups in this country, for example in maintenance or in education, the pay scales at the end of 20 are just ready halfway through 30. I would therefore like to put that image right at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u119	Clear. Then I suggest the Minister conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u120	Finally, if you look at Dutch society, you will see that it is ultimately very appropriate for us to opt for joint agreements and that the agreement is between all employers and all employees: we are not going to compete with each other on whom we want to work for the least. This really fits the Dutch tradition, a social tradition, but also one in which employers have always been able to find their way. I am pleased to note that this is supported. We have enough problems in the labour market, enough challenges and enough necessary changes that we will have to deal with with with the social partners. In the meantime, I remain convinced that adaptability appears to be stronger in consultation than in confrontation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u121	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to take a look at the Members of Parliament, and I would like to consult with them, to see if we can keep the second term now. If it's short, it could be. Otherwise, we really must suspend for lunch and then proceed with the second term. I see everyone nodding and seeing that we can proceed immediately. I hold everyone to the idea of being short. Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u122	Mr. Chairman. I call on the Minister to be even more on top of the fact that this adjustment is taking place. That's why I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Court had already asked the government in 2011 to seek more opportunities to use R&D funds for intersectoral training;]] [[noting that 85% of R & D funds still do not finance retraining to another sector;]] [[calls on the Government to no longer make R&D funds that do not allow cross-sectoral training universally binding as of 1 October 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-683]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u123	Yeah, about the motion. I'm gonna surprise you, too, because I don't need a second term. I think I have a right to this question. Does this motion actually mean that Mr Van Weyenberg wants to require that all R & D funds make intersectoral training possible? That is what I am asking for the understanding of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u124	I believe that workers in the sector who have contributed should also be able to use this money for cross-sectoral training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u125	Even if, for example, it is a small private R&D fund that finances highly specialised training for a very specialised part of the workforce, do you think it should always be intersectoral?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u126	For me, the importance of all the workers who contribute to the payment is paramount. They must all be given the right to retrain. I am sorry that Mrs Vermeij does not share that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that employers and employees attach great importance to the collective agreement;]] [[Whereas there are many opportunities for collective agreements to contribute more to reducing unemployment, training and development and sustainable employability of workers;]] [[calls on the government to urge the social partners to modernise collective agreements so that collective agreements contribute more to reducing unemployment and improving the training, development and sustainable employability of workers, and to seek a modernisation agreement between the Cabinet and the social partners by 1 June 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas studies by the Region Plan, the trade union AVV and the reactions of scientists show that there are opportunities to improve the policy of declaring it to be universally binding;]] [[calls on the government to send a cabinet response to these investigations and responses, with concrete proposals for improvement of the OV policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-684]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-685]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u127	Finally. Mr Ulenbelt was just trying to make the work of a trade union like AVV impossible on a side-road, but my group is absolutely not in favour of it. I would ask Mr Ulenbelt to take a look at how much the AVV has consulted the workers in this sector. The FNV can suck another dot on that. I heard what Mrs Vermeij said about the interests of the elderly. I have a very nice state of the OECD here. It says that they earn 160% of the wages of an end-winner in the Netherlands. In the Scandinavian countries this is about 120%. I am happy that experience is rewarded, but I would like the Minister to take this with him when he looks at how we can prevent older people from falling out of the boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u128	Everyone is entitled to the same speaking time, Mr Van Weyenberg. That wasn't two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u129	Mr. Chairman. I'll do it a little bit shorter. In the first term, I had an interrupting debate with the Minister on the general declaration of collective agreements. We also came to talk about open borders. If you do not want to abandon the worker for whom the Labour Party was once established, you must close the borders. I'm not gonna make that call here again, because I already did it in the first term. This is not what the debate is about either. However, it is important to know that this goes hand in hand with non-binding collective agreements. You will then have to close the borders in order to ensure maximum protection for the worker on the one hand and to be able to make his own arrangements if he is not covered by a collective agreement on the other. I have one motion. I confess I pulled an old motion out of the closet and modified it slightly, but I'm gonna try to get it back. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas collective agreements may have advantages and disadvantages for employers and employees;]] [[Whereas the vast majority of workers are not involved in and are not represented in collective bargaining;]] [[concluding that, despite this, collective agreements are often generally binding;]] [[concluding that employers and employees should therefore have maximum dispensation opportunities in order to be able to make agreements by mutual agreement;]] [[calls on the Government no longer to declare collective agreements universally binding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-686]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u130	That's where I end up at zero seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u131	Mr Ulenbelt has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u132	A motion must be actively supported by five people and I only saw two. I therefore believe that this motion does not take part in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u133	I see four people raise their hands. Then I'm in, too, with which it's five.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u134	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers it important that trade unions work together in order to establish a collective agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to the Court, which will make collective agreements generally binding only if the trade unions which conclude the collective agreement, whether collectively or not, represent at least half of the number of trade union members in the sector concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-687]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u135	In the review framework of the avv we have a representativeness formula for the employees side. This is an attempt to do this on the employee side too, not to let the small unions dominate. The minister said he's gonna talk to parties. If he takes this proposal along with it, I could hold the motion or maybe even withdraw it. Finally. This morning Mr Van Weyenberg spoke of a 'pressor' and Mr Mulder said that the 'avv should be used as a weapon'. The gun clatter wasn't off the air this morning. The minister says it's a horse medicine, I do. All the compliments to the Minister. In this debate the Liberals have lost it to the socialists, and that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u136	Mr. Chairman. We are still looking forward to seeing what comes out of the discussions with the social partners. The Minister trusts it. We are curious to see if that will work. It is an important issue, because we all want more permanent jobs. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to the so-called outsiders. I have prepared a motion on customisation, because I do not know whether what the Minister has promised is exactly what we want. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a broad call for more tailor-made collective agreements;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the overall framework for review, including the dispensation policy, can be adapted to allow for more tailor-made work and to promote more tailor-made work;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the House of Representatives before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29544-688]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u137	Mr Van Weyenberg, one question on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u138	Mr Mulder has been using big words all day about what else should be done; he thinks that the Minister should take care of it. Now, in general terms, the Minister has indicated that he is going to talk again, but not about the things I, and indeed Mr Mulder, want. I would therefore ask Mr Mulder once again about the Minister's reply. He is tabling a very specific motion on dispensation policy. I think I will advise my group to support it, but what is his general opinion? Mr Mulder wants something and I have indicated that I am not satisfied and will call on the Minister to do more about it. What is the VVD's position? Mr Mulder had a big mouth in the newspaper; what is he going to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u139	I've said that before. There are problems in the labour market with the fixed contract. The minister's gonna work on that. He's gonna do that before the summer. We will then assess that. I now note that the Minister does not want the option of keeping it as a stick behind the door. Apparently, he's confident it'll come some other way. He doesn't want to confront that. So we shall see what the results are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u140	Mr. Chairman. Mr Mulder's motion will be examined in the course of the discussion. I'll start with the other elements. The Van Weyenberg/Dijkgraaf motion in part No. 685 on the cabinet response with concrete proposals for improvements, I should like to advise against. I have just made a number of commitments to look into a number of issues relating to dispensation, customization, representativeness of small unions and empirical research. I think it would be strange to anticipate that. We should therefore agree that the motion will be held until I have fulfilled those commitments, because then we will know better what we are talking about. So: Hold on, or else I'd have to discourage the motion. With the motion in part No. 684 is requested for a modernisation agreement before 1 June 2016. I am in favour of intensive consultation on the modernisation of the collective agreement. I am therefore also in favour of open consultation on this issue. So I am going to do that, but I do not want to commit that consultation now to a prescribed modernisation agreement as of 1 June 2016. The social partners are now on the move. Much has already been done in individual collective agreements and also at the central level, but the design of this motion means that I am not advising her; otherwise, I am already carrying out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u141	At the Minister's first answer, I was a little hopeful, because I thought the Minister would like to put another tooth into it, but he wants the deadline of the agreement off his neck. That's how I understood him. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u142	That is also really about Mr Van Weyenberg's subjective experience and what he is or is not happy with. That's not up to me. I'm not going to prescribe a particular modernisation agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u143	It doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u144	Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u145	It says, "to strive for."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u146	Yeah, but we all know how that goes. It was already clear that I cannot enter into a commitment to results. I don't want to. I would like to hold the substantive urgent consultation on modernisation; I am already doing so. I'm in favour of open consultations on that. I have already said to Mr Mulder that I see its urgency as much as you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mr Van Weyenberg, you may explain the motion once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u148	I'm gonna think about letting the operative end at the last decimal point. That is the Minister's request, and I am going to think about it. I note that the Minister will leave the judgement to the Chamber if I do so and so remove "and seek a modernisation agreement between the cabinet and the social partners before 1 June 2016.'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u149	Then the motion is superfluous, because that is exactly the stake I have now. I object to the fact that Mr Van Weyenberg is now happy with an alleged tooth. When you say to each other that we are doing this and that we all think it is important, I find it strange when a motion says 'we also think it is important' and then it is said 'at last he is going to do it'. It's okay, and I'm fine with that. I'm trying to understand the mores, but that's a learning process I'm not done with. With the motion in part No. 683 is requested that R & D funds that do not allow for cross-sectoral training should no longer be made universally binding as of 1 October. That's not only showing the stick behind the door, but also handing out a big swipe. I don't think that's wise. I think I argued that in the first term. So I advise against this motion. I still owe Mr Mulder an answer to the question when I can answer the research questions about empirical research insiders and outsiders. I'll inform the Chamber about that in two months. That gives me the opportunity to look at this carefully and to consult the right experts and to discuss it with them. The scientific discussion on the research methodology is still being conducted through the reactions of the professors to the research of the Region Plan. I want to do justice to the Chamber in a good way. If it's possible, we'll do it; there's no misunderstanding about that. In two months, I can let the Chamber know what that might look like. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 686 by Mr De Graaf. Mr De Graaf believes that the borders should be closed. He knows that the boundaries are not closed now, and yet he wants to stop declaring collective agreements generally binding. In doing so, he is actually abandoning all those workers in the Netherlands who, thanks to the collective agreement, know that they will not lose their jobs if someone is willing to work for a lower wage. That's why the cabinet isn't in favour of that and I'm not recommending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u150	It's gonna be a well-nuke game, but I still think it's useful to address it one more time. In the first term, I called for the boundaries to be closed. That is not the case now, so I call on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr Ulenbelt has tabled his motion on item No. 687 wrapped in a candy. He said that if I include that proposal in my conversation with the social partners, he will withdraw or continue the motion. I'll take that proposal with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u152	Because the Minister does see something in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u153	Then it gets complicated again. I will tell the social partners that large parties in the Chamber think that this is the solution to something that I also see as a problem and they ask: what do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u154	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u155	At the request of Mr Ulenbelt, I propose his motion (29544, No. 687). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u156	One big party thinks this, indeed. With the motion in part No. 688 calls on Mr Mulder to look at the tailor-made testing framework. I think I've agreed to look into that. We have also understood each other well: tailor-made work is important within the collective agreement and there must be good agreements on how to get out of the collective agreement through dispensation. However, I had announced that I would come after the summer; the motion says 'before summer'. So that's tricky. If Mr Mulder were to change the date and agree with me on the need to look at what the research does rather than anticipate, I would not have to give the Chamber mustard after the meal in the autumn. That's not good at all and it's not wise either. If Mr Mulder is curious about the investigation and wants a reaction from the cabinet on how to promote tailor-made agreements in collective agreements in a good way, I would like to leave the motion to the opinion of the Chamber. However, I must ask him to make that adjustment, otherwise it will not give the proper appreciation to an already ongoing investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u157	I see that Mr Mulder probably needs time to react, but that can always be done before the votes on the motions. It's okay now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u158	I will delete "before the summer of 2016" from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u159	Then this motion will be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u160	The Anne Mulder motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a broad call for more customisation in collective agreements;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine how to make the overall framework of scrutiny binding, including the policy of dispensation, to be adapted so as to allow more tailor-made work and to promote more tailor-made work;]] [[invites the cabinet, the House of Representatives, to inform about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 688 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-5.u161	We will vote on the motions next Tuesday.
