ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA as the first speaker. It's his maiden speech, so no one's allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is a special time for me to speak today on my maiden speech to my fellow Members of Parliament, MPs, the people in the public gallery and perhaps also the people who are watching at home. A month ago I was sworn in in front of many of you, my wife and children and enthusiastic supporters from North Limburg, the centre of Europe. My father came to the Netherlands in 1963 as a Moroccan host worker. Today, this is a kind of synonym for "economic refugee," but on invitation. He loved to take action, and he did so up to his well-earned pension. In those early years he worked two shifts one day, with a fry and a half cock. Back then, it was more and more work. He landed in the village of Koningslust in Limburg. Today it is one of the eleven church villages of the beautiful, young fusion municipality of Peel and Maas, where I was born and raised. I can tell you that, as a Moroccan-Dutch boy growing up in Koningslust with 1,200 inhabitants, you get the Limburg dialect poured in with the dolphin. You can choose between "Heljes" or "Heljes." There are no more choices. Peel and Maas is a rural municipality consisting of the former municipalities of Heroes, Kessel, Meijel and Maasbree. The municipality is known for its strong self-control in the various unique cores. Not: waiting for the government. Or: you ask and we turn. This mentality of working together, with all kinds of different people and organizations, has always been very appealing to me and continues to give me energy. Moving, improving and renewing business, whether it's at our handball association Bevo Hc or elsewhere, that doesn't matter. With from home from a technical training and characteristics above, I was able to develop myself with my previous employer, ASML in Veldhoven. This is a beautiful, innovative company in the high-tech and manufacturing industry, where self-direction and entrepreneurship are also written with capital letters. Until my swearing-in as a Member of Parliament, I have worked with pleasure for twenty years in various technical and management positions, as a Limburg missionary in Brabant. In an environment where many large and small companies and other agencies are working every day to make a difference. You might think: what are you doing in The Hague politics, where other matters are written with capital letters, such as collegiality and gun factor? Since I joined the CDA twenty years ago, politics has been more than just a growing hobby next to my job in business. In local politics, I have played several roles: council member, group chairman and section president. From my own identity, whether Muslim, Limburger, CDA'er, Moroccan Dutchman or technician, I have always assumed my responsibility to make a positive contribution to a better Netherlands from ideals. A Netherlands, where we can live safely together, where you can take a suitable education and where there are many opportunities to make a proud contribution: with your hands or with your head. My commitment will be to keep it that way: sometimes strict and then just, but always from an inclusive society. I would like to close my personal section with a quote by Jan Peter Balkenende from 2005. "Actually, the Netherlands is a country you can be very proud of," and "please choose the positive energy." They also have this positive energy in the Brabant municipalities Schijndel, Sint-Oedenrode and Veghel, or the new municipality Meierijstad. It is an honour for me to speak today not only on behalf of the members of the CDA Group, but also on behalf of the colleagues of the VVD, the PvdA, D66, GroenLinks and the SGP. This is what I'm talking about by collegiality and the gun factor. The municipal councils of Schijndel, Sint-Oedenrode and Veghel all concluded almost unanimously that they were stronger together, on the basis of equivalence. In 2003, the Councils concluded an agreement in principle. In the 2014 municipal elections, this line received broad support from the population. For the success of the process of municipal reclassification, acceptance by all the municipalities concerned is of the utmost importance. That is why we and all these parties attach great importance to the fact that municipal reclassification takes place as far as possible from the bottom up. The municipalities of Schijndel, Sint-Oedenrode and Veghel have gradually grown into one new municipality in recent years. They see themselves as one city, Meierijstad. That name was chosen from over 500 entries by a broad committee composed of young and old. The three municipalities are aware of their own strength, which they bring into the new municipality: the social of Schijndel, the green of St.Oedenrode and the company of Veghel. That is a good starting point for a powerful new municipality. For the preparatory work, we would like to thank the Minister and the Department, the Province and, in particular, the municipalities concerned. On behalf of my colleagues, I wish the new municipality of Meierijstad and all Meierijstedelingen all the good things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you for your lovely speech, partly inspired by your personal history. The personal thing is also politics, you see that every time you see these beautiful maiden speeches. After that, you will do the usual political work, but it is very special that you include your personal history. It is also special that you may give your maiden speech on behalf of the majority of the Chamber. I've never seen that before! It's a beautiful achievement. I'm going to suspend shortly after I first congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u4	Let's move on to the debate. I call Mr Van Raak of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. So briefly a member of this Chamber and already speak on behalf of such a large majority. I've never seen it before. I congratulate Mr Amhaouch, of course, and welcome him. The Ministry of the Interior is the mother department. This is also a bit of a source of concern to us: the Committee on the Interior is the mother committee. It's an honor to be a member of it, and of course you're not really a member until you've made your maiden speech. It will be the last time that Mr Amhaouch speaks on behalf of so many groups. We're going to cross the swords and I look forward to that. Schijndel, Sint-Oedenrode and Veghel are three beautiful Brabant municipalities. They are now merged into Meierijstad. My first question is: why the name Meierijstad? It's not a city. They are three beautiful Brabant villages, rural villages, but it is not a city. The government gives several reasons to put them together: the municipal expansion of tasks and the changing societal challenges. When I asked the Minister what these changing societal challenges would be, they turned out to be part of the same municipal expansion. There are therefore several reasons for this reclassification, but these are all decentralisations, i.e. the fact that the government has decided to give tasks to the municipalities, to add far too little money and to transfer them in far too short a time. That's why there's a lot of pressure on reclassifications. Is this what the people want or not? The new municipality has 78,600 inhabitants. There have been six walk-in nights where a total of 180 people came. Then what was discussed there? The answer to that question is: the new challenges for the new municipality of Meierijstad, because that gives great advantages, for example, the construction of new walking and cycling routes. But those walking and cycling routes could have been built without a municipal reclassification, couldn't they? There have been round tables. That's what 300 people came for. There it was decided that the population should be more involved in the municipal administration. That was about setting up service concepts and control philosophy. At the time, I thought the name was wrong, but it's not right if you think you can involve the people in the board by talking about service concepts and control philosophy? That is what the people in Schijndel, St.Oedenrode and Veghel are really not waiting for. That makes it a weird proposition. We want tasks to be carried out close to the people. In order to be able to do these tasks, municipalities have too little money and need to re-assess, so that tasks can be transferred further away from the people. There is now a reclassification of Schijndel, St.Oedenrode and Veghel. However, there are many more plans in the area. Some municipalities still have plans for reclassification, others do not want to merge; they only want to merge. Why not opt for a plan for the whole province or the whole country? Now we are constantly seeing the development of a reclassification from which a large municipality is created, after which the adjacent municipalities become smaller. Then there's pressure again. There's little line, structure and logic in it. When assessing these types of reclassifications, we always check whether they come from the bottom. In this case, the municipal councils have a large majority. In this sense, it can be said that this is a voluntary reclassification. What always helps us in decision-making is to know what the people think. I don't mean those walk-in nights about board philosophies. I am referring to a statement by the people, for example in a referendum or in another way. Why isn't that happening now? Why can't I? That local democracy belongs to the people, doesn't it? If you're gonna get rid of it, you're gonna have to ask people about it, right? Why isn't that done? Why has people not been asked for their opinion, for example by means of a referendum? Why isn't that still possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u6	We have come to the Minister's answer and I see that he can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the merger of the municipalities of Schijndel, Sint-Oedenrode and Veghel. It is nice that Mr Amhaouch could give his maiden speech on this occasion. Congratulations on that. I thought it was a moving speech. My father came to the Netherlands at 11 years old and he was proud when we all started doing our best. It's your country, it's my country. It's also your country, Mr. Chairman. We all make it a beautiful country. Thank you for the lovely words. Then there is the merger of the three municipalities. The process went very well. The three municipal councils representing their people are in favour of the proposal. It fits in with the larger plan of the province, which is based on the report of the Huijbregts Committee on Resilience in Brabant. So it's not just an initiative. The proposal meets the criteria for a reclassification. There is support, as has been measured in the first place by the fact that the elected representatives in the three municipalities were broadly in agreement with the proposal. There is internal coherence in the merger and there is administrative power. There are balanced regional relations. In other words, the neighbouring municipalities agree. There is also sustainability. It is not a merger that is immediately followed by a new merger. These seem to me to be sufficient reasons to support the merger. They asked for the name. I've been looking into it for a while. A meier is ten joetjes, a temeier is an old profession and a meierij is an administrative unit run by a land drost, or a meier. I assume Meierijstad's etymology is based on the latter. So it's an old designation for this region. The name was chosen from a large number of names by the population. If the new municipal council wishes to change its name, it can make a proposal at any time. Mr Van Raak says that there would be a causal link with the decentralisation of tasks. I don't think you can say this. Honestly, this is the only municipal merger on the list this year. Decentralisations started last year. If you turn it off in time, you see a fairly autonomous number of mergers that have been made at a constant pace, spread over different political periods. I don't think you can directly connect with the decentralisations. I wish the inhabitants of the new town of Meierijstad all the best. The board that will be elected and that will run the city as of 1 January 2017, I congratulate you on the fine office it will hold. I wish the municipality all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-8.u8	I think we're done with this debate. Is that right? How lovely! Thank you.
