ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Ethnic profile, this time it happened to a well-known Dutchman, rapper Typhoon: his car was too beautiful. He was immediately apologized and we are talking about it in this Chamber. But Minister, do all those others who are arrested daily for no reason get excuses? How will they be compensated for the injustice they are being wronged? "Police is your best friend," says a well-known slogan. That is not the case for many Dutch people. Over and over again, they have to deal with prejudice. What happened to Typhoon is not an incident. It's systematically wrong with the police. Just listen in the country to the great distrust of people of different descent. They feel that the police are not there for them but against them. That's a dangerous misunderstanding. How will their trust in the police be restored? How is repetition prevented? The Minister will therefore have to work hard with the police. How is that possible? With more diversity. Help cops recognize their preconceptions. This is a first step towards preventing discrimination. But also make the police more diverse. My group has argued in favour of this before. This is still not happening enough. An effective and fair police reflects society in gender, age and level of education, but also in ethnic origin. Minister, work on diversity in the police! Finally, I ask the Minister whether he is going to take this off as an incident or whether he is finally taking this big problem seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Koşer Kaya for asking these questions. I have had many exchanges of views with the Chamber on this subject in recent years. In particular, Mr Marcouch of the PvdA Group has systematically drawn attention to this in the various general consultations that we hold with each other. Let me say first of all that the police are expected to try to prevent and discourage crime prematurely by proactive action, but we need to keep a close eye on this and keep a careful approach. There's no room for ethnic profiling with the police. This is addressed in different ways: training, awareness, connection and more diversity in the police in all areas. Mrs Koşer Kaya was right to mention that last point. These elements contribute to self-reflection and to preventing ethnic profiling. We are committed to this through the programme De Kracht of the difference. The reaction of the relevant agents in Zwolle also bears witness to this necessary self-reflection. There's been a conversation with explanations. It is important that lessons are also learned from this situation. I also believe that the response of the unitary leadership was adequate. There was a direct review of the incident with the officers involved and the reason for the check was reviewed. Apologies have been made, and they are in order. The focus on this issue has increased considerably in recent years, not only because of the attention from the Chamber, but also because of the attention from the corps leadership. It also has the full attention of the current corps leadership. This concerns both the diversity desired by the police and rightly mentioned by Mrs Koşer Kaya and the risk of ethnic profiling. The National Action Programme against Discrimination, which I announced in January, described progress on measures relating to ethnic profiling. I refer Mrs Koşer Kaya to that. She asked when the Minister was finally going to do something; all this is well described in the programme that we sent to the Chamber in January. In the progress letter on discrimination, I will inform the Chamber again at the end of this year about the next steps that have been and are being taken to prevent ethnic profiling. Finally, Mrs Koşer Kaya asked whether it was systematic. We have researched this, in Amsterdam and The Hague. The Ombudsman has also carried out inquiries. There comes a very clear picture: ethnic profiling occurs. Most of the time, it's unconscious. Sometimes it's conscious, and that's very, very wrong. However, it is certainly not structural. It is important to underline this here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u3	Paper's patient. I hear the Minister talking a lot. He says there's a lot written down already. However, it is a question of action. I do not yet hear a structural solution with some urgency, when all the alarm bells should have gone off to the Minister years ago. The chief of police then wrote a particularly disturbing story. He was talking about a poison of exclusion that his organization, the police, snuck in. He wrote about a supervisor who asked a bearded colleague in front of many others if he was radicalizing and about a surveillant picking a Muslim off the street because he would probably have a bomb. Unfortunately, I do not find it strange that it is difficult to eradicate prejudice and increase the diversity within the police. This chief of police wasn't the only one who sounded the alarm. Amnesty International also wrote it a few years ago: ethnic minorities are regarded by the police as suspect or at risk. Meanwhile, we live in 2016 and still have police officers who discriminate. That is completely unacceptable. The Minister's apologies are not enough. I have the minister who also did not hear to make for all those who had to deal with the same as Typhoon. Actions are the only right answer. I would like to hear whether the Minister can come forward with an action plan before the summer and whether he can promise that discrimination will be eliminated in the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u4	That action plan is there. So I don't have to send that. The room already has. That was also underlined by the Chief Constable, who made exactly the point made by Mrs Koşer Kaya. He didn't do that because he didn't have a policy for it, but because he genuinely felt that it was very important that the highest leadership of the police also strongly emphasizes that all forms of discrimination and racism within the corps and between the corps and the population are absolutely unacceptable. I think this is a very good example of what Mrs Koşer Kaya rightly referred to. The chief of police has taken on his responsibility and the current leadership is also taking on its responsibility. In addition, I would point out that we should also leave room for the professionalism of the police. The cops always have to make very quick decisions under very difficult circumstances. They also deserve space and respect from us. However, this does not detract from the fact that standing up for diversity, fighting racism inside and outside the corps, is one of the highest tasks of the national police. This task is taken very seriously by the police. I am therefore considering asking Typhoon if he is willing to participate in the police campaign so that he can, for example through a video message, as part of the training, let the entire corps experience how he experienced what happened to him and what it did to you. I think this can be very illustrative. It has not yet been possible to have contact with Typhoon because, as I understand from the media, he is recording new music. As soon as that contact is established, I will at least ask him. I hope he will be prepared to do so. I think it might be helpful to highlight this subject once again, with the reputation of Typhoon, who is also popular with the national police, within the programme that is already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mrs. Koşer Kaya, you have six seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u6	Trust in the police in situations like this really needs to be increased. It's not that now. In addition to Typhoon, I would approach all those young people, all those people with different backgrounds who have been wrongly detained, to participate. They'll get a face, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to thank Mrs Koşer Kaya for this suggestion, which I am happy to include in the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u8	I agree with that suggestion, because you're just gonna be the one who keeps getting taken out because you happen to have a different color. That feeling of discrimination leads people to turn away from society. In the case of institutions such as the police, we need to be extra critical of that. I have here a coupon book the police use in England. It'll only take ten seconds to fill out a receipt like that. Then police officers indicate what's the reason someone's been held up. This is precisely how you ensure that the detection method is handled carefully. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he'd like to investigate this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u9	I endorse what Mrs Voortman says. The thrust of what I am saying here is that it is incredibly important that all forms of racism, inside, outside, between the police and the population, be countered. That's what policy is for. I'm sure it is. That's what we're doing. If Typhoon can and will help with that, I'll be happy to use it. I know the stop forms, as they're called. I think we should be very careful about that. Paper's patient. The point is that we have to eliminate the practice. We should not create a new bureaucracy in order to make the practice clearer, but the question is whether something will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mrs. Voortman also makes a suggestion. Maybe you can go into that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u11	I've responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u12	I think it is very important that we avoid ethnically profiling. You do that by making police officers aware of their own behavior. This could help. Those police officers in England indicate that they have been helped by this, that they are less easy to maintain people and that the number of justified positions has remained the same. Wouldn't it make sense to introduce a pilot into a few municipalities that are working on this? If you don't want this, what do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u13	It's very simple. Racism, ethnic profiling, as far as it takes place, is between people's ears. That's not in a coupon book or what you write about it. In this respect, we have used the policy as it is to ensure that there is a change of attitude on the part of the police and diversity is realised. That also means that you can eliminate these excesses, because they are there, but not structuralally, let me just say that as a compliment to the national police. Structurally, there is no ethnic profiling, but it happens and I reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u14	It's very nice that the police have apologized to Typhoon. It is also very nice that the Minister today announces that he is going to involve Typhoon in a campaign. That's all wonderful, but it's also about changing the world. It is also a question of stopping those forms of unconscious discrimination, whereby you are arrested on the basis of your colour, which is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution. A very concrete solution is those stop forms, which have been tested in the United Kingdom and Spain. I don't understand why the cabinet is refusing to introduce this. The second suggestion I would like to put to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u15	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u16	The Minister rightly says that diversity is very important, but then it is also about making homosexuality negotiable and accepted within the police organisation. How is it possible that this cabinet was the National Expertise Centre for Diversity, which spread the knowledge about this within the police organisation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u17	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u18	...sustaining?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u19	Let me say first of all that there is an extraordinary amount of attention to national police for people with different sexual orientations. There are contacts working under Pink in Blue. The lhbt'ers are well organized. I think it is very important that Mrs Karabulut underlines this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think it is very good that the Minister says that there have been immediate apologies. I think these are in place, too. There is also concern towards our police station. How is the Minister going to ensure that Dutch agents maintain confidence to keep people standing, if they suspect or expect a suspicious situation? What is the Minister going to do to give these police officers the assurance that this can still be done in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u21	The VVD fraction puts the finger exactly where it hurts and can hurt. That's why I don't immediately embrace the stop form idea. Our policemen and women are expected to make the right decision at the right time in very difficult circumstances. Preferably they should not wait to make that decision to wonder what this can mean. We must give our confidence to the individual police officers that they can make an assessment. In addition, if it turns out to be a mistake, then we must be prepared to say that this should not have happened. That does not change the fact that I think it is very important that the programme we have is rolled out and that we remain actively involved, as Mr Marcouch has asked me and my predecessors on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u22	That's right. We have talked about this on a number of occasions, and we will continue to do so. Unfortunately, this will probably not be the last time, but that must be our ambition. Discrimination is a crime and the police should detect and bring crimes to justice. So she should not be guilty of it herself and should not even appear. Does the Minister agree with me that this undermines the authority and integrity of the police? Does he agree with me that that's why it's so important that you don't just bet on a campaign, trainings, etc., but that at every start of a police service, a morning shift, afternoon shift or evening shift...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u23	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr President, I would like to suggest to the Minister that this be dealt with in a very practical manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u25	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u26	I ask for a brief response from the Minister to my suggestion of a "standing position app" in which people can see for themselves, not the policemen but the people who have been held...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u28	... whether it's right that they've been held up. Then they can also file a complaint if they feel they are victims of ethnic profiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u29	The questions must be really short, as must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u30	As always, Mr Marcouch makes good suggestions that I need to think about. I'd be happy to. In the next general consultation on the progress report, I would like to come back to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u31	There is indeed a lot of talk about it. We have discussed this issue several times in the Chamber. The problem, however, is that so little is happening and that it is so little noticeable in this society. Luck in an accident is that it happened to Typhoon, because if it had happened to Muhammad from the Schilderswijk, we might not have had this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u32	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u33	My question to the Minister is: does he insist that this is not of a structural nature? This may be the case in investigations, but how does he think Muhammad in the Schilderswijk and Fatima in the Afrikaanderwijk experience this problem? It's structural, Minister. When are you going to stop denying that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u34	I have two things to say about this. First of all, if Muhammad from the Schilderswijk or Fatima from another neighborhood experience this, there are all kinds of measures they can take to address that issue. Quite simply, that's filing a complaint against the police. That's what's gonna happen. This is being dealt with seriously. This is important because we can then review the policy on the basis of the complaints. Secondly, it has been investigated. I can only refer to those investigations, which are being carried out systematically. It'll take place. That is why we have an active program to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u35	The Minister's talking about policy. The Minister's talking about a program. Unfortunately, the Minister is not talking about an act. I'll make it very concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u36	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u37	Do you think the Swollen policeman in question can get rid of it with a simple excuse like "sorry, it won't happen again"? When are you going to do an act and do work for police officers who deliberately discriminate, but also subconsciously discriminate and profile ethnically? When are you going to impose sanctions that will finally make police officers in the country feel like they shouldn't do this anymore, because it hurts our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-3.u38	I think I have indicated very comprehensively how I am in this as a minister, what policy we are pursuing together with the national police and what importance I attach to it. I think it would be a good idea for Mr Kuzu to take a look at what Mr Typhoon's reaction was in the media. He has indicated that he was a very nice guy and that they had a good conversation afterwards. I think that suits the police officer in question, but also the national police. If something doesn't go well, they're having a good conversation to get the problem out of the world. I think that's appropriate.
