ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u1	We have arrived at the answer in the first term of the cabinet, after we have suspended the plenary legislative procedure on 14 June 2016 at the request of the Minister of the United States of America after the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u2	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with a law that is called the same, but looks very different. That's what the Chamber saw, I assume. Today we are discussing the proposal to amend the Health Insurance Act for care abroad. There are several subjects to this bill. These issues share the common view that they relate to cross-border care. First of all, this bill contains the limitation of global coverage in the Health Insurance Act. After the first term of your Chamber, on 14 June last, I decided to get this part out of the bill. I will explain this later. The legislative proposal also regulates the establishment of a national contact point. This national contact point provides information as insured persons in another EU country in call for care. Finally, this bill contains a number of provisions that improve the implementation of the Health Insurance Act in cross-border situations. The implementation becomes more efficient and customer-friendly. I start with the legal institution of the National Contact Point for cross-border care, also known as the NCP. Receiving care across borders can be complicated. Because how do you, as a patient, know about the quality of care abroad? And what about the reimbursement of care abroad? Good information on these issues is important. In order to ensure that patients can exercise their right to free movement within the European Union, Member States should establish one or more national contact points. This is an obligation under the Patients' Directive. All these national contact points provide information to patients on cross-border care. People who go abroad for care get information about the reimbursement rules. People who come to a country to receive care will, among other things, receive information about the quality of healthcare providers and about patients' rights. The Patients Directive has created a whole network of national contact points within the EU that refer patients to each other. This development is important. In the Netherlands, the Zorginstituut has been performing the tasks of the National Contact Point since the deadline for implementation of the Patient Directive. The bill we are discussing today sets out the legal basis for this task of the Healthcare Institute. By the way, that task will be transferred to the CAK from 1 January 2017, but that has already been dealt with by the Chamber. With this, the Netherlands implements the Patient Directive. The legislative proposal has retroactive effect until the deadline for implementation of the Directive: October 2013. As is well known, I have submitted a letter of amendment to remove the limitation of global coverage from the legislative proposal. I'm about to get into this. I would like to stress first of all that it is important that this part of the legislative proposal should continue as a matter of urgency. The national contact point was already invested in the Netherlands a number of years ago at the Zorginstituut. The Netherlands already acted in accordance with the Patients Directive, but the European Commission has checked with all Member States whether they have indeed transposed all the provisions of the Patients Directive. In the context of this check, the European Commission has indicated that the Netherlands should still provide a legal basis for the establishment of the national contact point. Now that this has not been regulated by law, the European Commission has launched an inter-group procedure against the Netherlands. The written stage of the intergroup procedure has been completed. The next stage is that the Commission officially decides whether to refer the Netherlands to the European Court of Justice. I would like to avoid the passage to court, so I hope that the present legislative proposal can enter into force soon. Then I'll come to the world's cover in the Health Insurance Act. When the Health Insurance Act was introduced in 2006, world coverage was introduced. That was new. Initially, the coverage of the Health Fund Act was limited to the Netherlands, but under the influence of European regulations it had to be extended to Europe. For care outside Europe, people in the health insurance age had to take out private insurance or call for a bilateral convention. Since the introduction of the Health Insurance Act, people in uncontracted care are entitled to a compensation up to the Dutch rate. Since it does not matter where healthcare is invoked, the Health Insurance Act does not include a territorial limitation and thus the world coverage was established in 2006. In the coalition agreement of VVD and CDA and the consent agreement with the PVV for Rutte I it was announced to limit world coverage to Europe. This measure has been taken over in the formation of Rutte II between the Labour Party and the VVD. The limitation of world coverage was a measure of strict package management and would yield around €60 million per year. For example, a contribution would be made to keeping care for everyone accessible and affordable. As you will hear, I am using the past tense because I have submitted a letter of amendment to the bill. With that letter of amendment, I removed the limitation of world coverage from the bill. Let me explain. During the first term of the Chamber, on 14 June, many groups expressed concerns about the situation of chronically ill and disabled people. It was feared that these people would not be able to take out supplementary insurance or travel insurance due to the absence of an acceptance obligation for these insurances. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled an amendment to exempt people in need of palliative care from the functioning of the legislative proposal. I asked for a postponement after the first term of the Chamber in order to consider this amendment. I have every confidence that chronically ill and disabled people could also benefit from supplementary and travel insurance, because insurers must comply with the Equal Treatment Act for chronically ill and disabled people. I must also conclude that this bill would probably not make it without an exception for this group, given the shared concerns in the Chamber. The amendment of the Labour Party would make the implementation of the bill very complex. How do you define a disability or chronic illness? How do you delineate this group? During the first term of the Chamber, it appeared that this amendment was intended to have a very broad scope. Not only care related to the illness or disability would be excluded from the bill, but all care that a chronically ill or disabled person needs during his stay abroad, so also care for a broken leg through a fall on the ski slope. Chronically ill and disabled people are then covered for all care worldwide, even if care has nothing to do with the disease or disability, but people without disabilities or illness are not. That would create a strange situation. According to RIVM, there are more than five million chronically ill people in the Netherlands. If all these people were covered by the amendment for all the necessary care abroad, the revenue from the bill would be substantially reduced. So, on the one hand, the complexity and, on the other hand, the substantial decline in revenue, which was all about in that formation. In the first period, I was asked to have this amendment tested for feasibility by means of an implementation test. I didn't do that. Instead, on the basis of the considerations I have just mentioned, on world coverage but also on the European Union's intergroup procedure, I decided to remove the "limited world coverage" section from the legislative proposal. All this means that world coverage remains in the Health Insurance Act. Nothing changes there. Insured persons are entitled to reimbursement of care outside the European Union under the Health Insurance Act. Up to the Dutch rate is reimbursed. This results in an additional saving loss of €45 million per year. The €15 million per year related to care in treaty countries was already financially covered. Cover for the remaining €45 million for 2017 and the years thereafter will have to be found in the budget in spring 2017. I'm rounding up. In the first term, many questions have been asked about limiting world coverage...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u4	Before you conclude, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten. And as far as you're concerned, if I'm listening, I'm not listening, as Minister Gruijters always said, with my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u5	We're all listening with our ears, I hope. The Minister sent a letter of amendment. It could also have had the legislative proposal dealt with further and gave a positive opinion on Amendment No Leijten in part No. 9, which was mostly the hard work of Bureau Legislation, to undo the removal of world coverage. Why didn't the Minister choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u6	That has not been a conscious decision. I didn't want that intergroup procedure. I said, guys, we gotta move on as fast as we can. If the same result had been achieved with the amendment, which could well have been achieved, we would have been able to opt for it. In the end, it's the result that matters to me. The result is that I have here a bill that regulates a number of things that we have to deal with and which does not include the expiry of world coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u7	It might have been a bit of a technical question. The opposition's amendments are often rejected because there is no cover for them. The Minister is actually saying that she is accepting the Leijten amendment. She did it in a different way, with a letter of amendment. The result is the same, but the minister has no cover. Can we not then establish that in the future you will always be able to find cover if there is political will? So you don't have to bully opposition parties with the remark that there is no financial coverage if you actually agree with them in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u8	We have seen that an agreement from the coalition agreement can apparently not be achieved and that there is a gap left. That will have to be covered by the Spring Note. I hope it can be covered in an invisible way, so it doesn't bother us. But it's gonna have to be covered. There's no free beer, even here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u9	Soon it will be carnival and there will probably be a lot of free rounds, but we are not debating that here. This brings me to a question about the 45 million. The Minister says that she no longer has to answer all these questions about world coverage, because she removes the limitation of world coverage. However, I have asked several questions about the 45 million. Where does that amount come from? At first it was 60 million, now it's 45 million. This was called into question by health insurers and the Council of State. Is the Minister still prepared to give us the objective basis of that 45 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u10	It is very clear: this is an agreement from the coalition agreement. That's when it was calculated that this would be worth 60 million. That 15 million didn't just evaporate. It expired because it was about the treaty countries. There was already a delay for those treaty countries, because the treaties had to be adapted. In addition, VWS took a ride with Social Affairs, which was adapting the treaties. That is the 15 million, in which we had to deal with this financial coverage earlier. That amount of EUR 45 million has been calculated in this way by the Ministry of Finance and, like the entire government agreement, by the Central Planning Bureau. I just have to stick to that. I've been appointed to carry out the government agreement and I'm trying to do it in a good way. I can see that there is not enough support here, or that there is support for an amendment which makes it very complex and which very much undermines revenue, with five million people. Then I don't think it's worth doing such a complicated operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u11	I think it is a wise decision by the Minister, also in view of the urgency that we must take on the other part of the legislative proposal. However, it remains a little unclear. So we got a government agreement that called a saving amount that was supposedly independently tested by a so-called independent Central Plan Bureau. That doesn't seem right, because it's 45 million. I would then ask the Minister to send us the building-up of that amount. The health insurance companies and the Council of State doubt that. I asked in the first period, but I can't get an answer. We have to answer to the decimal point what we want to change to government policy, but the estimates for government policy appear to be weak. So can the Minister just send that calculation to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u12	Mrs Leijten can't draw that conclusion at all, can she? She can't pull it until I get the world's cover out and get it or not. That 15 million didn't just evaporate. That was the result of the treaty countries, which have been taken out of it as part of it before because the treaties needed to be adapted and that took time. That's where the 15 million came from. I didn't put this $60 million in my own office for a second. These estimates were passed on during the formation by the Central Planning Bureau and the Ministry of Finance. That's not the least of them. Mrs Leijten may say that they are "so-called independent," but the Central Planning Office is also the independent organisation that looks at the election programmes and makes calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u13	I want to thank the Minister. I heard her right: she said she listened to the concerns of the Chamber. The PvdA has tabled an amendment because we want to prevent people with chronic illness or disabilities or people who need palliative care from getting care by abolishing world coverage. Thank you for that, because I think it is important for the Minister to take over matters when the Chamber has serious concerns. I do not know what the technical situation is, but I have officially tabled an amendment. I think I'm gonna have to say officially at some point that I'm moving it in. The Minister has already withdrawn that part of the law, but I would like to point out here that it is not dependent on your wallet or your care outside Europe. That objective has been achieved, and I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u14	As I understand it, Mrs Bouwmeester wants her amendment to part No. 11, in place of Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace Amendment No 11, to replace
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u15	Yeah, because it's become redundant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u16	That piece was taken out of the law, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u17	Better double-up than not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u18	Therefore; it can only be clear. I would just like to say to Mrs Leijten that the evidence at the time was based on the available macro data on cross-border care under the Health Insurance Act. These macro costs have been around 400 million on average over the past seven years on an annual basis. On the basis of previous figures from two insurers, it has been estimated that around 15% of this cross-border care takes place outside Europe. This means that the savings envisaged by the legislative proposal amount to approximately 60 million a year. Mr President, this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u19	I'll see if the Chamber agrees with you. Because that's not always the case, but it is now. Thank you very much. Is there a need for a second term? Yes. Is there a need for a suspension prior to the second deadline? No. I am happy to be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. You're making it kind of exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u20	Sometimes you tap a motion during a debate and you still have to see if you have formulated it carefully. Mr. Chairman. I think that the Minister has made a wise decision by not allowing the abolition of world coverage to be part of this bill anymore. The other part was anything but controversial in the Chamber and was probably passed without debate. Let us hope that the notice of default does not lead to fines. I would like to comment on the calculations. We have just had another little debate with the Minister on the estimate of the premium. The Minister explained it in detail and said: we windows and health insurance companies do this differently; they themselves have a different assessment of the costs they incur, because health insurance companies differ. Next, she says that the macro-capture of the healthcare costs incurred abroad is 400 million, that she talked to two health insurers about this and that it was 15% with them, with which she came to the calculation of 60 million. That was already not entirely valid, because it included the treaty countries. This brings me back to the basis: how solid is this calculation now based on two health insurers? In fact, the Minister himself stated in detail that health insurers differ substantially from one another. It's quite different if you have a population of insured people who are traveling and can enter the world, or a population that is not or can't because of physical or financial constraints or who may not have the sense to travel. Of course, there can be a big difference. So I'm still having a problem with the cover. I am surprised that during this debate we find out that the Central Planning Office also uses the judgment of two health insurance companies, the 15%, as a general measure. This is quite interesting in the light of the discussions that our political groups are currently having with the Central Planning Office on their vision of the reality of the electoral programmes. I would like to know from the Minister whether she would like to take a closer look at the coverage with her ministry. This can also prevent a great deal of pain, because if it turns out that the questioning of these two insurers gives a very different picture than the questioning of all insurers. What kind of trouble would that be? There are 9 insurance holding companies, 25 health insurance companies and 61 policies. A lot of information is asked from them, so you can just ask the NZa to investigate or you can ask them directly. Then you get a real amount that you could reasonably book in. I realize this can be higher, but it can also be significantly lower. Then perhaps you don't have to take a very painful measure in the spring note. I think it would be wise for the Minister to do so, as would the withdrawal of the restriction on world coverage. This will have to be done by motion, because then it will be there. I've just tried to interrupt. I can also imagine the Minister saying that it is not necessary to put the motion to the vote because she is going to do it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the reduction of world coverage to countries of the European Union is estimated to yield EUR 45 million;]] [[noting that the loss of savings will be included in the budget of VWS in spring 2017;]] [[Whereas there is considerable doubt as to the accuracy and feasibility of the savings made;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an objective basis for the savings that would result from limiting world coverage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34333-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u21	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u22	One moment. I see that Mrs Leijten does not want to interfere with Mrs Klever, but has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u23	I forgot my final comment, Mr President. The amendment that I wanted to maintain world coverage was overtaken by the letter of amendment from the Minister and could therefore lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u24	The Leijten amendment (Doc. 9) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u25	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has listened carefully to the Chamber for which I thank him. Apart from the unclear yield, the measure was complex and was particularly disadvantaged by the elderly and chronically ill. The PVV Group therefore welcomes the fact that the global coverage of health insurance is not being removed or restricted, but simply continues to exist. As far as we are concerned, the legislative proposal has become superfluous. Although it also regulates a national contact point for cross-border care, no one is looking forward to it except Brussels. It's an extra bureaucratic layer that doesn't do more than refer you back to your health insurance provider or any other agency. Stop doing that and don't make it any more complicated than necessary, I'd like to give the Minister some credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u26	Mr. Chairman. The minister's gone over. The limitation of world coverage is gone and the CDA welcomes it. Sometimes an intention in the implementation simply leads to insurmountable objections. Well, then it's good not to be obstinate. As indicated in the first term, the CDA was worried about the bill as it was. Limiting world coverage proved impossible and it was highly questionable whether the savings of EUR 45 million would be achieved. Even more important were the concerns we had about the situation of chronically ill and disabled people who want to travel or stay outside Europe. It is good that the uncertainty about this has now been removed. The CDA can accept the bill that's still on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u27	I can now give the floor to Mr Rutte, on behalf of the VVD Group, but I note that he is refusing to do so. I call Mrs Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u28	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I expressed the concerns of the D66 Group about abolishing world coverage. We had doubts about the cost savings, which we were talking about now, about the possibilities that would continue to exist for chronically ill people and about the problems of demarcation and the uncertainty for insured persons who would entail these measures. I would like to endorse the comments made on coverage. I asked for this in the first period. At that time I also asked the Minister how we now know what we can really save, even if we compare it with the extra costs involved in information to explain all the grounds for exception. Bilateral treaties had to be terminated. In short, I would ask the Minister to take a closer look at what we really need to cover and whether that is so much. In this respect, I agree with Mrs Leijten's questions and with her motion. I am glad that the Minister has changed his mind about world coverage, and that it is gone. I have already identified the National Contact Point for cross-border care as a good initiative in my first term. I think it is very good that we are moving forward in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u29	I can now give the floor to Mrs Bouwmeester of the Labour Party, but I note that she does not use it. That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I have found that the Minister can answer immediately. I am happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u30	Mr. Chairman. This calculation was made at the formation. It is also wrong to say that the 15 million have been taken off and that the cover was not valid. That is precisely one aspect that was delayed and that we had to cover up in those years, because the abolition of world coverage also applies to these treaty countries. Measures shall be provided for a formation of cover. Sometimes these measures are about something that is not known at the time, what has not been done before, or what needs to be unbroken, because it has become intertwined at the time. If there's no more data, you're gonna see how to make it plausible. Insurance companies do not record healthcare costs per country. It's made plausible by not watching in a year, but in seven years. Then you already look over a longer term at numbers. So you're always gonna have to find a way to meet the next one. You make a plausible assessment. Is that a real assessment? How can you justify that assessment? Then the mathematicians look at it and they say: that is what we do or what we do not do. Later you always have, when something is done, that it is sometimes not easy and sometimes disappointing. The Leijten motion in part No. 14, in which the government is asked to state an objective basis now, I really do not recommend it. The people have something else to do, I would say, rather than look into this. I hope that everyone who ever sits at the formation table will do better themselves and that we will have no more setbacks and windfalls in the decisions that fall there. I think it's really lost time and I want to discourage this motion. Mrs Klever says that the bill is actually superfluous, because what good is it to have such a national contact point? That contact point is intended to provide information to insured persons who want to go abroad, and to people who want to receive care in the Netherlands. That is what we agreed on in Europe. We have already established the point. It's already there, but it just needs to be legally anchored. I think it's important to do that. I also think it is important, in substance, that we agree on such a contact point as we agree with each other that you can simply take care of the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u31	If someone goes abroad and wants to know about the compensation, he's gonna call his health care provider, right? Isn't that true for people who already reside abroad? What else does a point of contact like that add?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u32	Such an insurer does not need to know everything about care in a particular country. At such a contact point, you can combine information and help insured people with questions in an efficient way. I think that's very good. Again, the point is already there. So it's not something new we're going to do at all. It's already there, and we're legally anchoring it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u33	This brings the Minister to the end of her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-35.u34	We will vote on the legislative proposal and the motion tabled next Tuesday.
