ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the entire Supervisory Board of the University of Amsterdam resigned. In particular, the position of the President, Mr Atzo Nicolaï, had become unsustainable. It is yet another development at the UvA following last year's protests at the Virgin House against the top-down board, with no connection to students and teachers. That doesn't just play the UvA. Also look at the educational disasters with Amarantis, Hogeschool Inholland and ROC Leiden. What's the underlying problem? Drivers are omnipotent and act like solar kings. Without any support, they can take far-reaching decisions. They're often people from an old boys network. They come from the business community or they're outnumbered politicians. The VVD is at the top, according to an overview. The Minister himself is also a former education director, not to mention the Hogeschool van Amsterdam. We need to stop this old boys network. Universities and schools are not companies. The same applies to health care institutions and housing corporations. These institutions deserve directors who are connected to the public sector. This significantly reduces the risk of malpractice. The Minister goes all around this. In fact, in April, she re-appointed Mr Nicolaï in the back chambers as chairman of the Supervisory Board, without any participation of students and teachers. This would be good for continuity. Last week he quit, and according to the Minister that was good for continuity. That can't be both true. You made a big mistake in April, I say to the Minister, and it would be a credit to you if you admitted it. More importantly, are you willing to look at a different model of governance, with staff being given much more say? Then don't come up with your new law strengthening executive power, with some little dots here and there. It's really about big improvements. Finally, is the Minister prepared to terminate the administrative merger of the UvA and the Hogeschool van Amsterdam immediately? It has led to an administrative monstrosity, with nearly 100,000 students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, last week the Supervisory Board of the University of Amsterdam decided not to leave, but to transfer its tasks as soon as possible to make room for new members. It is regrettable that this has happened, but I think it is an important and good step to regain confidence. My main concern was and is the continuity of the university. That is why I re-appointed Mr Nicolaï in April. I have followed the current procedure, I say to Mr Van Dijk. This is the standing practice. In the event of a new appointment to the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board must present a profile to participation, but not to re-appointment. This has never happened since the law came into force in 2010. So I followed the regular procedure. I did that because at that time there was a situation that could not tolerate that there was no supervisory board. There was no full board of directors. The former chairman had been gone for three-quarters of a year. There was an acting chairman who was also principal. Important decisions need to be taken, including the decision whether the UvA and the HvA stay together. I note that there is now a board of directors that can count on the support of teachers and students. I note that it is very important that, listening to participation in relation to the profile, a new supervisory board should be set up so that important decisions can be taken in the future. I note that it is up to them, not me, to think about how one wants to deal with the merger. I also note that I know no better governance models than the current model. Last year we had a very wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject, following Mr Van Dijk's plans. There was no majority for that in this Chamber. Luckily for the law strengthening administrative power. I am pleased that it has just been adopted by the First Chamber, so that all these proposals can now be put into practice by educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister explains the procedure very neatly. She did it the way it always did. But we can expect more from a minister, can't we? Didn't she see the chaos at the University of Amsterdam and other educational institutions? Why didn't she think better in April? Why did she automatically re-appoint Mr Nicolaï? To be honest, I do not think it is an argument to say that there were some drivers leaving at the time. Mr Nicolaï had zero point zero support. You came to that conclusion last week, but we already had that information in April, Minister. He came out of the old boys network and had no connection to education. He behaved like a sun king when it comes to all the decisions taken at the UvA. I would like a fair reflection of the Minister on her role. As far as I'm concerned, she really failed here. It would also be a credit to her if she said: okay, the appointment of members of the supervisory board is not going well; we are going to look very seriously at alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Now that Mr Van Dijk is making this kind of bold statement, I ask him to support it well. At least I can't back them up. I regret to note that there is a deep crisis of confidence between the supervisory board and participation. We have tried to overcome this crisis. Mediation is enabled. It's too bad it didn't work out. The Supervisory Board has drawn conclusions that I respect. Let me say again: the main task of the Supervisory Board is to appoint and dismiss members of the Executive Board. If that board of directors is not complete in a situation where there is a lot of protests and unrest, while important decisions have to be taken on the continuation of some of the two largest higher education institutions in the Netherlands, where financial experts have to be appointed for both the UvA and the HvA, then it is an important responsibility of the supervisory board to take those decisions. With the Act strengthening administrative power we come to some improvements. I say to Mr Van Dijk that I have also learned one lesson from all this. Normally, where a supervisory board is appointed, the profile is submitted to participation. This is not the case in the case of a reappointment. It doesn't have to be the law. It's never happened before. I have learned that it is desirable to submit the profile to participation even in the case of reappointments in order to check whether the profile is still current for the next four years and is in line with the profile of the previous appointment. That's something the Supervisory Board should do. I think that we are taking a small step towards ensuring that this is done properly and with the involvement of participation when re-appointed. For the rest, I very much hope that everyone at the UvA will be able to do what he or she is appointed to do in the near future, namely good education and good research. Follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr Van Dijk, you have 29 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	What is the matter with this minister? In April, she says here in the Chamber: I am re-appointing Mr Nicolaï, because that is good for continuity. It's June now, not two months later, and he quits. The Minister once again calls this good for continuity. She's spinning like a windvane. There's zero point zero reflection on her own failed decision back then. Be honest about that. Otherwise, nothing's ever gonna change this problem. Then the Minister himself is the problem. I'm asking her to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	I've been very clear. I've indicated that I've also learned a lesson. I do not know what else Mr Van Dijk would want. If there is no full board of directors and no supervisory board, then there is no one else who can play supervisory board there but me. And I do not know whether it is desirable to exchange views here every day and every week about all developments at the University of Amsterdam. This does not seem to me to be conducive to the organisation and certainly not to the students and teachers who sit there. Mr Van Dijk would like them to have more influence. We have organised it as follows: there is a board of directors with the support of teachers and students. That is what we want to do, and it is also possible, thanks to the fact that there has been a supervisory board appointed by those college members in recent months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	The resignation or resignation of this supervisory board led me to the discovery that there was even a supervisory board at the UvA and the HvA. I had never noticed in the last year and a half of unrest that that council was interfering. The Minister says that she has learned a lesson, namely that reappointments should also be submitted to participation. My question to the Minister is whether she has come to that lesson only since the recent complications. Or had she previously concluded that, before re-appointment, it should have consulted with the university's participation itself? Did she actually do that? If not, why not and, if so, what did that yield?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	Over the past year I have been in contact with many sections of the University of Amsterdam after the protests and demonstrations. I have spoken with members of the official student representation as well as with teachers and other staff. I have also spoken with many students who were somewhat more informally organised and with the board of directors. I have concluded that the problems at the University of Amsterdam are great and that it is of the utmost importance that the sections that deal with them should consult each other. Once again, I regret to note that the crisis of confidence between the supervisory board and participation is so deep that it recently proved impossible to restore it. I haven't had that signal before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	This brings us to the end of Question Time. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
