ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would ask Members who do not take part in the debate to leave the Chamber and give the floor to Mrs Schouten on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thanks also to the Chamber for not putting us in a position where we would be forced to break the law. I will continue where we left off, namely the long lead time of the prosecution's investigation and the consequences for the committee's investigation. Mr Grashoff and Mr Verhoeven asked. The Committee has indeed found that this has had an impact on the investigation, for example because the memory of those directly involved was much less. Our report states the following. It affected the committee that the discussions had to ask for facts and circumstances from two years ago. Many of the people involved had no sharp memories with which journalist they had discussed exactly what they had two years ago. You also asked us if it would have made a difference if the investigation had been transferred a year earlier. That is the usual as-dan question, to which it is very difficult for me to answer. I won't. I come to the third block: the scope of the investigation. Several questions have been asked about the scope of our research. We have also noticed that there are differences of opinion in this Chamber. On the one hand, it was asked why the investigation should remain as limited as possible. On the other hand, questions have been asked as to why the committee has not gone very wide, pointing out, among other things, that we should also have spoken to officials, informers, spindoctors, other MPs and so on. The committee has chosen the scope necessary to do this research properly. In an investigative investigation, it's never exactly known in advance. We have opted for a step-by-step and systematic approach whereby information on meetings is always decisive for a possible next step. We have gone further than the prosecution's investigation, but at every step we have asked ourselves whether we could and should go further. We have chosen to focus the research on those directly involved, those present at the CIVD meetings. This is the circle of people who may be guilty of breach of confidentiality. What is being discussed in committee must not be shared with anyone. Some members have asked the question as to why it has not also been spoken to indirect stakeholders, such as informers, political assistants or as it is called spindoctors. The reason for this is the following. When individuals from this circle know something about what has been exchanged in the CIVD, they always have it on second hand, namely from someone who has violated secrecy. The committee concentrated on that group. Our report states that our request to the circle of directly concerned did not give rise to any facts or circumstances giving rise to further investigation. Moreover, there was a potentially very large circle of third parties. Then we should have been lucky enough to ask informers or MPs if they knew anything. Apart from the fact that this could be interpreted in criminal terms as arbitrary and non-proportional, it is also an unfocused approach. The question is also why we have not spoken to officials who are present at the CIVD meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mrs Schouten said earlier that the statements made by political group assistants, for example, were crucial because individuals, those involved, could only be identified as suspects. Why weren't these people heard? The reason it was a large group, a large circle, does not pay up. Those statements were really necessary in order to be able to conduct a proper investigation. That didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	To take away a misunderstanding, I did not say that (witnesses) statements by group assistants were necessary. Incriminating witness statements were required. They could have belonged to group chairmen. I have just explained why we did not investigate that very large circle. There has to be a reason to go further and get an incriminating testimony. That reason should be found in the fact that the direct members of the CIVD may have talked about what is taking place in those meetings. We have looked into this and we have not been able to establish it. That is why we have not been constantly checking whether all these other people have a potential for a very large group of people who did have information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	Those group assistants could have given that incriminating statement. That is obvious and it has not happened. That's incomprehensible. Once again, anyone who is looking at such a debate does not understand anything about that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	I have just indicated that many groups have been mentioned here: group assistants, informers, communication people. Members of parliament have even been said. That would mean that perhaps we should have heard more than a hundred people all set up to see if anything is happening. That's not common in a criminal investigation. Then you have to have a reason to go back to looking at a next step. There was no reason for that, because the immediate parties to the CIVD have all indicated that they have not talked about what has changed in the CIVD. We have therefore not been able to find out what the facts and circumstances are as to why this breach of the secrecy of the office took place. Mr. Chairman. It was also asked why there was no discussion with officials present at the CIVD meetings. In our report, we have explained that because of their official status they are not covered by the functioning of Article 119 of the Constitution. The committee is therefore not solely competent to investigate them. So we had to focus on political ministers. Especially when the committee starts to question officials without direct cause or suspicion, that is beyond its powers. But more importantly, there were no indications or grounds to question certain officials on the basis of the committee's research material. Mr Krol asked why the committee did not question the Minister of Defence. The committee wanted to have a discussion with the most concerned minister on this file. That was the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The question has also been asked as to what can be done now. In particular, Mr Van Raak asked whether there were still possibilities for the Committee of Inquiry to continue the investigation in order to bring the truth to the table. Mr Bishop also asked for this. The answer is no. The committee does not see these possibilities. As described in our report, we have conducted extensive investigations, studied the OM research, continued and expanded that research, using the research results of the Rijksrecherche. If the committee had any other options, it would have made use of them. However, the legal instruments did not offer these possibilities. The question has also been asked as to what the Chamber can do now. The committee can certainly be in this: there are no more possibilities within criminal law. Only the Chamber is competent to investigate public office holders. It has taken advantage of this opportunity. Bodies outside the Chamber are not authorized to investigate political officials. Mrs Keijzer asked whether the Chamber could in theory give another charge of prosecution. Like Mrs Keijzer, the committee sees this as a purely theoretical option. The law is based on a known perpetrator. In the opinion of the Committee, the Chamber can only order prosecution before the Attorney General of the Supreme Court if it knows against whom and on what grounds. In our opinion, both legal requirements are not met. I come to the fourth block: the conclusions and possible improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	We could have guessed this was the answer. We all think it's a terrible answer. This is acidic and irresponsible. We'll have to change the law as soon as possible. But there is a crook here who gets away with it, which is almost incomprehensible. The consequences may be even more serious. The committee has shown very clearly in its report that the committee secretly filed a complaint because of so many leaks. It was the proverbial drop that overflowed the bucket, as the report literally states. At the same time, the committee states that it has no evidence that there is a culture of leaks in the committee secretly. I can't completely rhyme those two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	"The drop that overflowed the bucket" related to this case. We called this "a chain reaction" in our report. We have not been able to detect a pattern of leaks in general in the media at the Intelligence and Security Services Commission. There has indeed been a case in the media before from the CIVD, but that was resolved at that time. Only, with regard to other matters, we could not find any evidence that there is a leak culture within that committee. But in this case, there has indeed been a chain reaction of leaks, I think that is such a popular word about what has been discussed in the CIVD. We have also shown this in our report. Not only in a NRC article, but also in several other newspapers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	The committee secretly can only function if there is no leak. There's a crook, a criminal here. He's on the committee sneak as well. The committee has seen more than we have seen, but does it think that the committee secretly can still work and that information can still be shared there or does it think that there is always a danger now because that unscrupulous person, that unscrupulous politician, is sitting there? Is there any decent information that can be shared there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	This seems to me to be an excellent discussion which the Chamber should hold with the CIVD President himself. I understand that this will be done soon. In the CIVD itself, it is necessary to determine what its working method is and how it is handled with information. It wasn't a subject of inquiry in committee. The committee has established that there is no real culture of leaks. In this case it did not go well, and we have examined it. What that means for the functioning of the CIVD, the Chamber itself must discuss with the CIVD. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last block, which is about the conclusions and the improvements. What's next? The Committee welcomes the fact that almost all spokesmen share the analysis that this procedure needs adaptation and improvement. It was rightly noted that an opportunity for this was missed in 2010, when the De Wijkerslooth Committee already warned about this in the Public Secret report. In fact, that committee made the explicit recommendation to the House of Representatives to modernise the legislation. Where this recommendation remained at the time, I note that there is now broad support for doing so. Among others, Mrs Tellegen, Mrs Fokke, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Verhoeven asked how and by whom the legislation should be modernised. Mrs Tellegen even addressed the committee as an expert in experience and asked to reflect on this question. That is what we want to do, but of course within the limits of our mandate. We are not talking about the interpretation; that is really up to the Chamber itself. However, we can share some thoughts. The legal procedure provides for a large role for MPs in the investigation. We are unanimous on this point in the procedure: this is really undesirable. As a Member of Parliament, you end up in some sort of spa because you're investigating co-workers. Doing research on colleagues, that's not happening. Several scenarios are possible for the subsequent completion of the procedure. It may be considered that the entire investigation by the D.A. should be conducted and that only the prosecution decision should be placed with the Chamber. Or you can leave the whole trial with an independent person, such as the Attorney General of the Supreme Court; that is the case with the prosecution decision. If the Chamber retains its role in the investigation, at least adequate approximation of laws should be ensured. Therefore, reconsider the Commission's instruments. Think, for example, of the possibility of using the National Police. These are just a few scenarios. Each scenario has advantages and disadvantages on which very careful thought must be given to the process of modernisation. We are now experienced experts. The difficulties we have experienced in the current procedure have been explained in detail in our report. Our considerations may help in shaping the idea of modernising the laws. These considerations have also been drawn up with the advice of experts. We therefore recommend to the Chamber that these experts be involved in the possible follow-up process and in the shaping of ideas that takes place in it. As I said at the beginning, the outcome of research is unsatisfactory, because the truth has not come out. Looking at the whole thing, the committee comes to the conclusion: once but never again. It is therefore encouraging that there is broad support for improving the procedure. It is a responsibility of all of us to take this forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	I note that there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. I do not have the impression that the purpose of this committee was to bring out the bottom stone. Witnesses have not been heard, call data is not made public and outdated legislation is constantly being taken back, which is used as an argument to explain why it all did not work out. This does not give the impression that the intention was to really bring out the bottom stone. I shall therefore table the following two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Asks the House of Representatives to transfer the investigation file to the Attorney General at the Supreme Court for further examination of the leaks from the committee secretly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Schouten Committee to make the investigation of the Rijksrecherche public or to make it confidential for inspection by Members of Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34340-4]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34340-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr President, you have already come to the conclusion. So maybe I'm just too late, but isn't the disclosure of a criminal investigation of the National Criminal Court something that really can't be done? Is this not therefore entirely out of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	I also give a second option: if what Mrs Keijzer says is true, the investigation can also be made confidential for inspection by Members of Parliament. Perhaps Mrs Keijzer will agree with that. Otherwise, I wonder whether Mrs Keijzer has any intention of getting the truth out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	This is kind of the world upside down. If you file a motion, do you have to notify yourself of the answer to the question whether what you're proposing is not contrary to the law? That is what I find very complicated about this; that is actually a bit of Mr Bontes' input. We all want to know what happened, but as co-legislator, we shouldn't be doing things that violate the law, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	That's really just the question. What we are dealing with here is interpretation to interpretation. There's no case law. No one knows exactly what's going on. The House, fortunately, has not taken the wrong path in handing the whole dossier over to this committee and saying: figure it out. There is no case law and there are interpretations. So I do not know what is and is not punishable in the context of the work of a representative of the people when he asks for documents to be kept confidential for inspection. Mrs Keijzer doesn't know either, and that's why she's sitting down now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	I think Mrs. Keijzer sat down because she...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	I sat down because I gave up a little bit. I asked questions. I asked Mr Bontes to give him an opportunity to think again about what he is proposing. That's vain hope. However, I would appreciate it if he did not then make such a conclusion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	I've been thinking...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr Bontes, much has already been said. I'd leave it at that. Mrs Van Tongeren has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	Just because this is such an important case, I think we should do it carefully. I have a question along the lines of what Mrs Keijzer just said. We all find it unsatisfactory. The committee has also said this in all keys. She says, however, that there are no more possibilities. We have our own Rules of Procedure. I assume that Mr Bontes agrees that we are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There are also Articles 58 and 59. Does Mr Bontes consider his motion to be in accordance with our own Rules of Procedure? Did he watch that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	As a Lower House, we have someone in our midst who has committed a criminal offence. It just goes free, it just goes on with its Chamber seat and it just keeps doing the work it does. And then Mrs Van Tongeren will fall back on the Rules of Procedure! That doesn't apply here, does it? We are dealing here with a unique situation: a leak has been leaked from the committee secretly. That's pretty much the most serious crime you can commit in the Chamber. And then we should hide behind the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	I'm assuming we're still sticking to the law. It says you're innocent until you're convicted. I see that Mr Bontes does not really need an investigation at all, because the conclusion has already been drawn: there are culprits, there is a criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	I find that extremely strange. Then why are we even having this debate here? I really do not understand why Mr Bontes does not want a careful process to bring the truth to the table. If he's already come to a conclusion, it's clear to him. Then the motion doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	It is quite clear: we have a culprit in the Lower House, at least one suspect. It's up to the judge to convict. However, as a Chamber, you must have the strength and the intention to bring out that lower stone. If I hear the argument 'yes, but we may have the Rules of Procedure', then I get the feeling that the Chamber simply wants to keep it all under wraps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr. Chairman. I've never been so angry here before. If I followed my gut, I'd say kick them all in here and we're gonna question them. However, you cannot conduct a criminal investigation in public. Nor can you appoint a whole group of group chairmen as suspects because one is not right. But there is at least one that is not right: a crook, a criminal, who is willing to commit a criminal offence to play political games. It's between us. He's here in the room. That's not right! We've set up an investigation committee, we've followed the law, but we can't get a hold of him. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee of Inquiry very much. I think we can all come to the conclusion here that this law is not good and needs to be amended quickly, so that politicians cannot get away with this kind of behavior. It's wider. Sometimes, even in parliament, there seems to be this morality: when I get away with it, it's good. Then something isn't good because it's good, or bad because it's bad. Then it's not based on conscience or morality, but just, flat: it's good because I get away with it. That's the disease, that's the poison of leaks, spreading lies, preaching half truths and getting away with it. We cannot accept this. I will therefore wholeheartedly support the motion to amend the law, which will be tabled later. And who that person is? Someday it'll become clear. Whether this person wants a long career in politics? I don't know, but this person is blackmailable. There are people who know things about him that will one day become clear. I don't know how this guy looks himself in the mirror in the morning, but I hope he'll quit soon and get his ass kicked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the committee for its good work on this difficult task and for the way in which it has explained it today in all the commotion that has arisen. Of course, D66 is also not happy with the outcome. I have indicated that we too are disappointed that the question of who was the leak has not been clarified. That is why we will also support the motion of the VVD to modernise the law in line with the committee's recommendations, in order to ensure that the 1855 law is replaced by a law that makes it possible to properly investigate and prosecute disciplinary offences. Those who have failed the committee today by simply saying that they have not done their job properly have not spoken on behalf of D66. My party believes that the committee has done its job well within the framework that was laid down. Those were difficult frameworks. There are also groups that have proposed, under the guise of "the bottom stone above" to break the law. There have been groups who, on the basis of membership of a committee, wanted to conclude that those people should be prosecuted. There were also groups who wanted to draw far-reaching conclusions on the basis of telephone contact, without knowing the content of the conversation. Disappointment is quite understandable at the moment, but I would like to advise anyone who has let himself down and made proposals that do not fit in with the rule of law to read the regulations and the codes of conduct properly and not make this kind of weird proposals anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	After these harsh words by Mr Verhoeven, I would almost think: Mr Verhoeven, do you have something to hide?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	The answer to that question is no, I have nothing to hide. And this is exactly what bothers me: all the time asking questions and making proposals that are completely contrary to the rule of law, and at the moment when a Member of Parliament thinks it is important that certain laws are observed, that says something about them, suggest that he or his party is apparently suspicious. I think that is even worse than the proposals you have just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	The leaks from the committee secretly, that is the crime, not the criticism of it and of this committee, and the search for ways to get the leak out anyway. No, the leak from the committee secretly is the serious crime that is being committed here. You should not blame those who oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	I'm not blaming anyone. All I'm saying is that a crime is no reason to break all kinds of laws and make proposals that don't fit in with Dutch criminal law, to get the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. This debate wasn't just about anything. The national security of the Netherlands has been compromised. It was thrown too gibberish, by one or more group chairmen from this Chamber. It's indigestible that we haven't made it any further to expose them. Again, there was more information available to get to the truth. This committee had access to telephone records and to the names of the group chairman or chairmen who was or were in the public prosecutor's office and who has or have had contact with the NRC journalist. We had a roll-call vote on it. Unfortunately, most groups are still of the opinion that cover-up helps. However, we are not just giving up. If anyone believes that disclosure of the data is not possible, there is also another solution. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[requests the committee, the names of one or more political group chairmen, whom the public prosecutor had in mind for having telephone contact with NRC Handelsblad, to be kept confidential for inspection by the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34340-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	The argument of non-disclosure is deleted. I hope that the groups will now have the courage to take action to get the truth out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the committee very much for the careful way in which the questions and comments have been answered, fully within the framework of state law. I would like to express my appreciation for that. That the outcome is ultimately unsatisfactory, we all share. The question that lies ahead, and which is answered differently, is what steps we could take now. Then there are two schools to distinguish. One school says, battering ram on it and banging it in. The other school says, "Wait a minute, because the Chamber has an exemplary role to play." We have the rule of law to guard carefully. As unsatisfactory as the outcome may be, this can never be changed with the addition of the fundamental principles of state law. I therefore find it regrettable that colleagues call such an attitude'sudden'. This has nothing to do with cover-up. It has to do with careful handling of constitutional principles. Or, at the expense of everything and contrary to the principles of the rule of law, do we want to try to move forward? In addition, the question is whether you are going to go one step further. I think that the motion which Mrs Tellegen is about to table, and which has been broadly signed, is a much better route. We should no longer fall into the post-2010 mistake when the good intention to start working on legislation was laid on the shelf and nothing happened. We have to make arrangements to take steps. In this way, we can regulate both the political and the criminal side as well as the investigative side. Should such an invigorating situation arise again, the Chamber has a suitable toolbox, first aid kit or whatever you want to call it at hand to operate in it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr. Chairman. I thank the committee for its clear answer. For the VVD group too, the outcome of this research is and remains extremely frustrating. As the chairman of the committee himself has just said very well, this is never again. Regulation and the legal framework need to be modernised as a matter of urgency. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, on behalf of the Chamber, the Schouten Committee has investigated whether sufficient grounds for prosecution exist for leaking information from the CIVD;]] [[noting that the legislation under which ministers, State Secretary and MPs can be prosecuted for criminal offences is not sufficient in practice;]] [[Whereas, in line with the 2010 Public Secret Report, the Committee recommends modernising this legislation;]] [[expresses thanks for the work carried out by the committee, including official support;]] [[endorses the conclusions of the Committee's report;]] [[Notes that it is desirable that the modernisation of legislation on the prosecution of criminal offences should be undertaken as a matter of urgency and that a legislative proposal should be drawn up by 1 January 2017 at the latest;]] [[invites the Presidium, in consultation with the Government and the First Chamber, to prepare for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Tellegen, Mr Fokke, Mr Keijzer, Mr Van Raak, Mr Fritsma, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Bishop, Mr Krol, Mr Houwers and Mr Bontes.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34340-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the chairman and the other members of the Committee of Inquiry for all the answers. A debate on the committee secretly remains difficult because of the structural secret nature of the committee. It is also unsatisfactory that the leak has been leaked from the committee secretly and that the leak has not surfaced. This damages the reputation of Parliament and the confidence of its citizens in politics. Of course, the Chamber may exceptionally and occasionally be informed confidentially at its request, but the structural nature of the committee secretly is undesirable. The systematic secrecy between the Cabinet and the Chamber undermines not only the confidence in parliamentary democracy, but also the freedom of action of the Chamber as the highest authority. On important issues, the cabinet can silence the Chamber by declaring the subjects discussed in committee secretly on the initiative of the cabinet. It is the duty of a representative of the people to gather and share information in all freedom. The structural duty of silence surrounding the secret information provided by the cabinet prevents that from happening. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas systematic confidential information of the Court precludes the independent control function and its transparency;]] [[calls on the Bureau to close the committee secretly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34340-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Verhoeven has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	I understand Mrs Thieme's objections to the committee secretly. She's trying to get rid of something. I would like to hear from Mrs Thieme whether she has an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	Sure, we already know that in this house. Spokesmen on certain subjects may already be informed confidentially at their request. I think that's the right way to do it. The specialists on a particular subject have a complete insight into a particular dossier. With any confidential information they receive, they can better assess whether the right decisions are taken by this cabinet. This is better than informing structural group chairmen about all kinds of subjects that they cannot then discuss with their specialists. In fact, that means that the information remains secret, that the chairman of the group is silenced and that the supervisory role of this Parliament is in fact made impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mrs Thieme therefore wants instead of a system whereby we systematically inform the group chairmen, a system where we occasionally inform the spokesperson security services?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	Exactly. The initiative lies in particular with the Chamber. The Chamber should also be able to ask the cabinet for information, although that is displeasure to the cabinet and rather does not want it to. As a result, the direction remains with the Chamber. The consideration of possibly being informed in confidence can then be made by the MP himself: can I deal with that, do I want to be informed about it? This information can then, together with the public information, provide a complete picture, enabling the control function to be optimally exercised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	I am not at all against this proposal in advance, quite the contrary. I only have the problem that we will soon have a proposal. This proposal will be the subject of a debate. Is it possible to hold this motion until that debate? This subject has been dealt with side by side in this debate, but I would also like to discuss this issue in a separate debate a little more broadly on the basis of a proposal that comes anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	I will certainly consider this request from a colleague of the SP. Mr Van Raak will then hear from me later whether I wish to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. I thank the committee once again for its work and I thank its chairman for the clear response. I think it is clear: there is a criminal offence; there has been a leak. What is not clear is the precise facts and circumstances that have led to a reasonable presumption of guilt of a concrete person or a concrete number of persons. This means that there are no sufficient grounds for prosecution, so that the Attorney General cannot be burdened with prosecution. That's frustrating. All kinds of other words have already been reviewed. However, that displeasure and frustration should never give rise to the imposition of law and law next to you. Unfortunately, this has been discussed a number of times today. In everything we propose, we should be asking ourselves very specifically whether what we propose is in conformity with the legislation. This is certainly true when it comes to criminal law and criminal procedure. What's next? How do we prevent this? This is clear from Mrs Tellegen's motion, which the CDA has therefore wholeheartedly signed. The legislation needs to be amended quickly so that if this ever happens again, there are rules and laws to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of 50PLUS, I would also like to thank the committee. In particular, I would like to thank Mrs Schouten for the way in which she has defended her work. It was a difficult task. It was also extremely unsatisfactory, and I fully agree with Mr Van Raak on this point. Hence my support for the Tellegen motion. I want to make it even more difficult for the perpetrator and therefore submit this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Others have already said it: it is totally unsatisfactory. However, I would like to thank the committee for its work. I voted in favour of Mr Fritsma's motion for a resolution because I support the aim he pursued, and also in relation to the legal interpretations of our rules and laws. I'm making a prediction: the truth will come out anyway, perhaps again through leaks. We shouldn't want that. Hence a final motion, as far as I am concerned, as a closure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a leak from the Intelligence and Security Services Commission and that there is no unsub to be identified;]] [[believes that every effort should be made to prevent information from getting outside the committee;]] [[calls on the members of the committee not to share any information from the committee with political group staff, personal staff, press officers and other staff working in the vicinity of the members,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34340-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank the committee, the staff and the advisers for the competent response and also for the thorough report. The committee has had to do its work with outdated legislation and limited powers, but has nevertheless used all the possibilities to bring the truth to the table. Of course, the outcome is disappointing; we share that. That is why it is important to put the law in order so that in future criminal cases can be better investigated and prosecuted. The committee's report provides a good basis and incentive for this. It is now necessary that, in consultation with the Lower House, the Upper Chamber and the Government, a new law is rapidly established. That is why I have signed the motion tabled by Mrs Tellegen on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	Madam President. I thank the committee for the clear answers. I would like to quote the words that the President ended with: once but never again. I think this is clear to all of us. The outcome is extremely unsatisfactory on the left or right. As a number of colleagues have said, our rule of law is a good thing. That means we're all not above the law. We're not lawless, either. That's the other side of the coin. The PvdA has therefore wholeheartedly supported the motion of the VVD, but something must be done now. That's why I'm glad there's a hard date in that motion. Following the 2010 report, we failed to really change the law. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it is therefore once and for all never again. Let us now amend the law so that the rule of law fits in with investigations that we want to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr. Chairman. The SP is angry. D66 isn't happy. The SGP finds it unsatisfactory, even frustrating. Like the committee, the PvdA says: once but never again. I think we can stop it from happening again. I think the next motion will challenge the Chamber not to leave it at this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the investigation committee responsible for investigating the alleged leaks of strictly confidential information from the Intelligence and Security Services Committee did not have the legal powers to clarify the matter under investigation;]] [[Whereas, in doing so, the possibility of a criminal offence committed by a representative of the people remains in the air and that this is detrimental to the standing and trust of our democratic rule of law;]] [[also considering that the Committee of Inquiry has recommended modernising the laws and regulations governing the detection, prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences;]] [[calls on the Bureau, on behalf of the Court, to ask the Government, in such a review of the relevant laws and regulations relating to the investigation, prosecution and prosecution of criminal offences, to include the possibility of introducing the technical possibility of applying these new laws and regulations retroactively to this case examined by the Committee of Inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34340-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. I too agree with the words of thanks to the committee and to the chairman for the clear first-term response. The committee has done everything in its power to find out who leaked from the CIVD within the legal possibilities available. I quote the chairman that the committee had to work 'in dense fog and with a broken oar'. The outcome is frustrating, as has already been widely recalled in the Chamber. That is why it is difficult to accept, as my colleagues have said. For GroenLinks, however, this is not a reason to ignore the law, as a small part of the Chamber suggests. However, it is an incentive for GroenLinks to come up with new legislation, which regulates investigations and prosecutions in criminal cases. That is why my group supports the motion of the VVD. Like the previous speaker, I hope: never again like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	The committee needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	I give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their compliments to the committee. As we have said before, we have not had an easy task, but we have fulfilled it in all conscience. I am pleased to note that this is also shared by the Chamber. I'd better get right to the motions. Mr Bontes' motion for a resolution (Doc. 4 goes against exactly the proposal that we make in our report, so that I decommit the motion. The request in Mr Bontes' motion to item No. 5 not only violates the law but also violates Article 8 of the ECHR. That is why we do not recommend this motion. Then I come to Mr Fritsma's motion on item No. 6. The Chamber set up the committee and asked her to conduct a criminal investigation. The Chamber itself has also asked to deal with this very prudently. That is why this committee has decided to keep the circle of those who could see confidential information very limited. Article 6 ECHR, the fair process, and Article 8 ECHR play a role in this. In our legal annex we have explicitly described how we dealt with this and what that meant for this investigation. Furthermore, it was the Chamber itself that indicated the possibility of considering whether our investigation could even take place anonymously. So it's both the law and the order of the Chamber. That is why we do not recommend this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	Just in response to the PVV motion. How can it violate privacy if the request is correct to submit the information confidentially to the Chamber? Well, that argument of privacy is just about getting over it, isn't it? It is no longer disclosure; it is a request to inform the Chamber confidentially.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	It is precisely in a normal criminal investigation that data that emerge in an investigation are not shared, not even confidentially, throughout the State's Attorney's Office. It always looks at what the circle of those involved should be. In fact, I would like to point out that the Chamber has instructed us to deal with this very carefully. We have kept to that and we stand by that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	That point of privacy and disclosure has been dealt with precisely by this motion. I thought the goal was to take it one step further. There is no breaking of law here, because there is no disclosure here. In this way, there may be an opening to get closer to the truth. And that's what you want, and that's what the whole room wants. So I just don't get the reaction to this motion. There is a very serious fact. National security has been thrown too far. That must be stronger, heavier than the privacy, which is not even violated by this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	On the contrary, we have taken the seriousness of the investigation very seriously, and that is why we have been doing research all these months. It remains to be seen that it was the Chamber that instructed us not to disclose this information and to keep the circle that could take note of this information very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	For the sake of clarity, do you carry out this motion if it is adopted by the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	I didn't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	The question was: do you carry out this motion if it is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Fritsma whether it is accepted. Then I come to the motion on part No. 7. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the compliments that have been given to the committee in this motion, but certainly also to the staff, which is quite right. The question asked at the Bureau is not for us to answer. If we have read our report, we can be sure that we are in favour of this motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Thieme's 8 question is not the subject of this committee's inquiry, so we are not discussing it. The motion in part No. Mr Krol's 9 is not addressed to the committee, but to the Chamber. The motion in part No. We believe that 10 by Mr Houwers is superfluous. The Rules of Procedure of the Intelligence and Security Commission already state that there is absolute secrecy. The motion in part No. Mr Kuzu's 11 calls for a look at the possibility of carrying out retrospective investigations. Article 15 (2) of the Ministerial Responsibility Act does not allow this. It states that new investigations and prosecutions for the same fact cannot take place again. We dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	That is possible, but Mrs Tellegen has tabled a motion aimed at a new law as of 1 January 2017. This is particularly the case. The law will be amended, so that there will be more powers and opportunities to prevent this kind of thing. The point is that we take this matter with retroactive effect. I think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	Not under Article 15 (2) of the Ministerial Responsibility Act. We can adapt the legal instruments, but that does not mean that we can put that article aside now. That is the basis on which we must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'm trying to explain it clearly again. There's gonna be a bill soon that's gonna make this kind of thing possible. The only objection may be that retroactive action is not possible, but retroactive action is possible if there is improper use of an arrangement, the restoration of an omission or a sudden acute problem requiring rapid provision. On the basis of what Mrs Tellegen has presented and what is going to happen, it should be quite possible to do so retroactively. It's not about the current law, it's about a bill that's going to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u66	I have no choice but to abide by the current law. Don't ask me to break it. I'll come to a conclusion. I don't want to do that without thanking my committee members separately. I call them by name, because they have all made a great deal of effort over the last two and a half months. The time pressure was high, it was intense and it was looking for a road that was difficult to see. I would like to thank Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mr Harbers, Mr De Roon, Mr Recourt, Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van Nispen for doing the utmost with me, with the staff and with our advisers to get the truth out of the table. The failure to do so is unsatisfactory, as we have said many times. But that does not affect the efforts of this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u67	We have come to the end of the debate on the report of the Committee of Inquiry. On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to thank the committee very much for the report and the willingness to discuss it with the Chamber. Thank you also to the official support and to the advisers who assisted the committee with advice. Motions have been tabled to the Bureau. If these motions are adopted, the Bureau will respond in writing later. Thank you very much again. I'd like to see you back in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-9.u68	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
