ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u2	Those who have watched Searched this week have once again witnessed a serious assault on the trail. The unsub was a light-skinned man as many times as he was. In 2015, 642 incidents and threats were reported by NS personnel. So these are almost two incidents a day, at the NS alone. If you counted buses, subways and trams, the number is much higher. The PVV has been asking for measures for years: gates closed, more conductors who are always together, more police, more camera surveillance, body cameras for conductors and drivers, a text alert, stricter penalties and so on. Why is it necessary to ask for this for years? Why are the agreements that are not even respected after the serious abuse of a conductor who is now in a wheelchair? Why do Members of Parliament even have to table a motion to get agreements made on the safety of staff and passengers carried out? Why are the conductors and the bus drivers so abandoned? And why are all Dutch people so abandoned? This cabinet is making an incredible mess. On the track, the PvdA has made a mess of it and with the police it is the VVD that delivers a total dysfunction towards the entire society. Together, these parties also open the borders wide, bringing hundreds of thousands of non-Western immigrants into our country. Our country is getting further and further broken down. The number of cowardly violent crimes and threats by mainly light-skinned men from Islamic cultures is unacceptable to the PVV. We do not conceal this uncomfortable reality. We are not closing our eyes to this. I'm gonna move on to some incidents that just made it to the paper this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u3	It is unacceptable for part of the Chamber to put a whole group of people away in this way. At least I wanted to mention that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u4	I understand it's an uncomfortable truth, but the group I just mentioned is extremely overrepresented in the number of violent crimes. I have reports on this and Mrs Van Veldhoven can see it if she wants. This denial seems to me very clumsy, especially at a time when this terror of violence is coming across Europe like a wave. I think that all Members of Parliament should be aware that the perpetrators often belong to a group that can be called a problem group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u5	The real uncomfortable truth is that people who commit violence occur in all groups of the population and that we must appeal to each individual for his behavior. A group can never be held responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u6	I certainly do not hold a group responsible for this either. I would just like to point out that this group is extremely overrepresented in this type of violent crime. You only have to look at Search Enquired and you see all kinds of light-skinned men, often of North African descent, kicking people completely into the hospital in a very cowardly way. I think that this should be mentioned in this Chamber, even though Mrs Van Veldhoven may not like it. I don't like it either, but it's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u8	That is why I have a link with the open border policy of the cabinet, because we must be aware that the arrival in the Netherlands of hundreds of thousands of non-western immigrants, who are not integrated and who will be overrepresented in these statistics, will only exacerbate the problems. And I'm not even talking about the terrorist threat. Mr President, I will skip the incidents, because I think we have said enough about how serious it is. But it's just the tip of the iceberg. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how big the odds are. Do perpetrators always get picked up? If not, why not? If the perpetrators commit such acts of violence, then what are the penalties? Until 2013, the Netherlands had a real railway police with 450 full-time employees. Until the year 2000, the NS even had the railway police in their own service. With the large-scale independence and privatisation of railway companies, these corps have disappeared, including in the Netherlands. The independence of the NS therefore still has a major disadvantage, namely that there are huge communication failures between police and NS personnel. They used to be just in the NS's service. They were cops with the authority of a cop. That is still the case in the United States, by the way. We have understood from contacts with NS staff that there are a lot of problems with adequate police support in these incidents. Nor is there any feedback if the police have arrested a perpetrator. You can't do that. The work as a conductor is very stressful. It can't be that you're at risk for your own life holding a violent person and handing it over to the police, but that you don't hear about what's happening to this person after that? Rail companies may impose an O.V. ban on persons. My question is very brief: why is there no national database and what happens if you break the ban? We would like more dogs to be used at stations, because that also deters perpetrators. I come to the measures against black driving. What is the government doing with the NS to blackmail asylum seekers? We get reports that these people are being checked, but are often allowed to travel. Is the Minister prepared to take action against this? Asylum seekers seem to get tickets from the COA, but they even seem to be traded. It shouldn't be possible. I'm rounding up. We want the government to finally take the safety of staff and passengers seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u9	I'm still stuck with the light-tuned part of the story. I'm always sorry about that. I have an excellent personal relationship with Mr Madlener and with many of his colleagues, but I do not understand that blind spot for the lightened fellow man. Statistics are statistics; we can agree on that together. However, there are a lot of people with a different origin who do well in the Netherlands, who do work that Henk and Ingrid no longer feel like doing: second and third generation people, with other roots, who study, who also want cottage-boom-beestje and who function well in the Netherlands. They get scared off by the way you talk about them. That's a problem, too. Do you see that? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u10	If I were a Moroccan, I wouldn't be happy with the misconduct of my countrymen. I think that should be appointed. Of course, not every light-skinned man from North Africa is a criminal. I do not want to say that here either. But we shouldn't name it either. It is a fact that the over-representation of this group, particularly in this type of violent crime, is enormous. That's what I want named here. I will continue to do so, because we are not closing our eyes to reality, especially in the light of current asylum immigration. We see what is happening all over Europe. A wave of violence on public roads and also in public transport plagues our country. We can't close our eyes to that, can we? I don't want to say that all light-skinned men in the Netherlands are criminal. I never said I did, and I never will, because I just don't. But we must really want to face the over-representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u11	I would like to leave it at that, Mr Smaling. Thank you very much, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u12	I hope the SP will face that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u13	No, it's okay. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Smaling on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. You have very heavy, heavy and less heavy work in life. Strangely enough, heavy work is often also the worst paid job. A conductor doesn't belong to the profession that excels in fat salaries. The heavy work of the conductor is not only in checking the ticket, but especially in irregular working hours, in bad weather always having to take the train in and out and in the stress of getting the connection to your next service when you are on a delayed train. The most important thing, of course, is the appeal to your social skills. All day long you make short contact with a very large group of people you don't usually know. That almost always goes well, but sometimes it doesn't. That's what we're talking about today. It doesn't go well too often. Everyone will see this as the risk of the profession, but the abuses that conductors have to accept are too serious and too frequent. Moreover, in some cases they have very serious and lasting consequences, physical, mental or both. At the beginning of last year we were shocked a number of times by very serious abuse of NS personnel, such as a conductor on the Hoofddorp-Schiphol section. Also in the period after that, these kinds of incidents regularly came out. That's what happened the last week. That's what Mr Madlener was talking about. The life of the conductor on the route Hoofddorp-Schiphol probably never again as it was. She can never smell again, she sees double and she's locked in her house. Who are the figures who have this kind of evil on their conscience? In the case of Hoofddorp, the unsub turned out to be a man who's chronically psychotic. This isn't the only incident where the unsub turns out to be a ggz patient. That's something the NS itself claims to recognize. Also read this week's article in Elsevier, which states that 10% of the murders were committed in 2015 by severely disturbed persons. The NS staff sometimes literally takes the blows from the cuts on the ggz. The NS already spends over 100 million a year on security measures. Does the Secretary of State have a picture of how many percent of the incidents of violence the person concerned has a ggz background? Does she see a link between these incidents and cutting back on matters such as crisis relief and, if so, what are her proposals? A package of measures has been agreed with the NS, but little remains of this in the Safe Public Task Monitor. It might be too soon. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about the situation. Furthermore, many gates have not yet been closed. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that closing the gates can contribute to greater security? Does she want to speed up the completion of this project? The railway police would return to about 20 stations. How's this going? Are there any positive effects? It is certainly very desirable in Almere. Last year, the SP Group visited the NS Security & Service Department. There lived the strong desire for a physical police station at Utrecht Central Station. This is also nice for the traveller, who can then report directly to the station. In addition, persons arrested may be temporarily detained there. The renovation of Utrecht Centraal offers this possibility. In fact, for a station with more passengers than Schiphol, a physical police station is not an unreasonable requirement. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The SP is not in favour of additional arming of NS personnel. In cases like pepper spray and batons, we see a risk. They also require a lot of extra training. The conductor should first of all be a hostess or host on the train, not an armed security guard. As far as the SP is concerned, the mandate of violence is mainly a matter for the police. Does the Secretary of State share this analysis? The SP does see the potential benefit of the bodycam. How's the pilot doing with the body cams? Is it possible to introduce them for the staff in the short term? In 2014, more than one in three employees faced a public task with aggression. Violence against conductors, but also against agents, ambulance staff and firefighters, a lot of people get the blood from under the nails, and rightly so. It's the government's job to nip this in the bud.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested last year in response to the incidents at the time. A conductor was put in the hospital, who to this day is in a wheelchair with permanent injuries. But again this week two conductors in Heerhugowaard were abused. I think I speak on behalf of all my colleagues when I say that that is terrible and that you should just stay away from people who are doing their work on our behalf. We should be grateful for the engineers, the conductors, the cleaners and the station staff. They ensure safety and a pleasant journey. I would like to say to Mr Madlener: there are a lot of people with a tan. Among the people who clean the train and I come across because I travel a lot by train, people with a tan are also overrepresented, but fortunately in the Netherlands it is not about what you look like but about what you do. To all those who do that good work, I would like to say thank you very much. It would be a credit to Mr Madlener if he were able to do so. Last year, the Secretary of State of I and M and the Minister of Security and Justice sat down with the parties concerned to come up with a package of measures. D66 said: it is good that action is taken quickly, but let us also consider which measures are most effective when it comes to scaling up. How many people are needed, for example, to enforce a station ban or how can you possibly use these people as double conductors on a train? What will ultimately work better for the safety of workers and passengers on the train? I thank the Secretary of State for her letter on the state of play. It is good to read that all these measures have been taken. I am also very interested in the answer to the question of what measures we can strengthen in order to strengthen this downward trend. Just about the closure of the OV-gates were some cautious signals. When can the Secretary of State tell us more about the evaluation of the other measures? Can it promise that the evaluation will also reveal to what extent the measures taken have actually contributed to reducing aggression against NS personnel? What I missed a little bit in the letter "Sometimes the PVV and D66 can find each other. "This is a response to our proposal last year to set up a special text number to which train passengers can text if they experience nuisance in a coupé. This is an easy way for travellers to assume their responsibilities, so that we can prevent a conductor from facing an aggressive situation unprepared. Perhaps a combination with a second conductor on the train can ensure that they go together to a certain situation. In his letter, the cabinet writes: "V and J take this proposal into account in the development of vision on data and apps and the development of the police room." That sounds a bit like "you'll hear from us again" to me. I am sorry about this idea. In the cinemas where the idea came from, we already see that visitors get the suggestion to report something on a particular text-number. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she would at least like to talk to the cinemas to see how they experience the use of that number, what lessons they draw from it and how they have already evaluated that pilot. Perhaps the Secretary of State could draw lessons from this as to how this might be applied to trains. I would like a commitment from the Secretary of State on that point. I come to my final point. As has just been said, sufficient training of NS staff is important. It is important to be able to use sufficient double conductors on risk paths, but it is also important that the people who have experienced such a situation receive sufficient support afterwards. Will the Secretary of State take care of that, too? Does the Commission intend to consider whether sufficient funds and time will be made available to all these people who are doing this work for us all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. On 6 March 2015, the train from Schiphol Airport arrives in Hoofddorp at 00.38 hours, which is the final station. First grade is a man who doesn't want to leave the train. Chief Conductor Bianca walks her last round through the train when she sees the man sitting. After that, everything turns black. The man hits her in the head so hard that her face needs to be operated on several times. She's lost her sense of smell. The trial on 4 December 2015 visits her in a wheelchair. Its coordination and balance are still not in order. The unsub has no permanent residence or residence. He's a psychiatric patient. He is sentenced to one year's imprisonment and TBs with compulsory care. Bianca worked at NS for seven years. This night is the provisional end of her career. Violence in society and against NS personnel is not new. The bus drivers, the paramedics, the police and others who work for all of us are also involved. However, NS figures show a decrease in the number of incidents of violence. In 2005 there were about 1,100 and now there are about 650. That's still too much. That's about twice a day. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: is violence becoming more violent now than it used to be? Is the violence used different from a few years ago? And of course, there's something to be done about it. Coupling with services should become the standard. Training for resilience and de-escalation is important. Also hanging up cameras and using bodycams and boa powers can help to contain aggression. Bianca was attacked by a psychiatric patient. Helping these people and recognizing signals can be helpful. It also helps to make public transport safer if there is a risk of recidivism. But of course it also begins with yourself. The moment a conductor is attacked, it is a matter of intervention. That is difficult, but if we can rely on each other, if we help each other in plight and if we say anything about it if the situation threatens to escalate, then we can prevent worse. A number of measures have been announced following last year's incidents. What about its implementation? Are there two people on the train at the moment, if necessary? Are the cameras that are hanging there also operational? Is the police gonna be on the scene soon enough if that's what it takes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. Violence against people who perform a public task is unacceptable. Bastards who commit harassment and abuse of conductors and other people with a public role must therefore be treated with great care. It is not for nothing that the penalty for violence against aid workers and people with a public role has been increased. As a society we say: you have crossed a line and you are being treated hard for that too. That higher level of punishment is also a signal to all those people who struggle day in, day out for all of us. It is sad that we regularly read or hear about violent violence against NS or OP personnel in public transport. Last Tuesday the weather was hit in Heerhugowaard. We are having this debate following the sad low point of March last year, when a leading conductor was seriously abused by a passenger during her last round by the train from Schiphol to Hoofddorp. Her sin: she had addressed him in the absence of a permit. There was a broad call for a variety of measures to punish perpetrators and to prevent incidents as much as possible. The cabinet came up with this. Gates are being speeded up. As a result, there are at least fewer black riders and thus fewer incidents in Rotterdam. Further measures include more cameras, accelerated introduction of station bans, a doubling of the penalty in the event of violence against public servants and an intensification of cooperation between the NS and the police. The choice of measures, some of which have already been introduced, and the reduction in the number of notifications are at odds with the criticism expressed by the employees in the newspaper this morning. There would be no national coverage of the communication equipment, there would be no second conductor and the police would not be visible enough at the larger stations. Is this true? Have all the measures actually been implemented? What progress has been made on the agreed measures? Where are the delays and what is being done about them? The November letter does not entirely reassure the VVD Group in this respect. I can't believe that big NS states that freeing up capacity for double-humanization of trains poses a challenge to the organisation, says this letter? That can't be right, can it? Why does the introduction of this measure stop? Security of personnel and passengers should have absolute priority, shouldn't it? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. A number of questions remain with the VVD about the progress of the other measures. The station ban is being introduced more quickly. There are still a number of uncertainties: who is subject to this ban and when exactly is it imposed? How's the experiment with body cams coming along? The VVD thinks the use of bodycams is a good instrument. In this way, we can quickly identify where there is violence, what happened and who did it. Is the Secretary of State prepared to continue to roll out this instrument in consultation with the carriers? The discussion has so far focused on the NS and the measures taken on the main rail network, but what is the situation in the other transport regions? There, too, there is miserable behavior in public transport. Will these measures also be extended in the transport regions? The 200% penalty for violence against public servants has now been introduced. Can the Secretary of State indicate how often it is applied? In response to questions from the VVD whether railway employees can access police files, the Minister of Security and Justice replied that a pilot was carried out in Rotterdam. However, no firm conclusions could be drawn from this pilot. The police, according to the Minister, would discuss this further with relevant parties. The VVD sees the added value of this exchange and asks the Secretary of State if these talks have been held in the meantime. If so, what has come out of it? Following a motion by the VVD and the PvdA, the fines for black drivers will be increased from €35 to €50. We are very pleased with this, because we believe that black driving is one of the main causes of miserable behaviour and violence that needs to be tackled harder. As far as we are concerned, the fine will increase even further in the future, but we will await the evaluation in this regard. In Paris, in connection with the threat of attacks, access to the Thalys is secured by the installation of gates. This is not yet the case in the Netherlands. The Minister for Security and Justice is discussing this with his colleagues in Belgium, France and Germany. How are these conversations going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. According to the Dutch Railways, the number of incidents is falling. We don't believe that. We don't believe it. Do you know what sounds we're getting, Mr. Chairman? We hear that when people report an incident to their boss and perhaps report it again that they've been molested, spit, offended, threatened, kicked, kicked and beaten, they're asked whether they're in the right place, whether they're doing their job properly, if they might have to take courses. That's why people don't report a violent crime anymore. That's the kind of noise we get. The fact that standards are being blackmailed is very bad, but that happens all the time. But you can't bargain with values, with what we care about and with what's valuable. That is what is happening now. We do not believe that the number of incidents is falling. We believe the number of incidents is increasing. However, the number of people for Security & Service remains the same. Last year, the Secretary of State made agreements with the Dutch Railways and the trade unions. The gates would be closed. However, how many gates are still open? How many stations are the gates still open? Cameras would also be purchased. The invitation to tender went wrong. When are these cameras gonna get here? There would also be double-humanisation. How often, however, is conductors on false occasions on their own? And at 20 stations there would be 20 manned police facilities. How many stations is there currently a permanent manned police facility? The police would be on the scene in time, too. How often does it happen that the police aren't on time when someone is being held by Security & Service?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u19	I would like to return to Mr Van Helvert's analysis. He said, "I don't think the number of incidents is going down." It also seems too good to be true when you read about these serious incidents. Is there, however, any support for his faith? I know that Mr Van Helvert is from the CDA and that faith plays a more important role there than some other parties. However, I am looking for the basis of that belief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u20	It is funny that Mr Hoogland is joking about religion, but I do not think this subject is funny at all. I hear these noises from conductors, train crew and safety & service employees. If they report that they've been molested, caught and spit on again, they'll get the answer they might have to go on a course from above. They get the question from above whether they're sure they're doing well, whether it's not up to them and whether they shouldn't even be looking for something else. Also an employee who has become a conductor with pleasure and who likes to work for the Dutch Railways, Veolia or Connexxion, will not report it again if you get such an answer. When I speak to the employees of the Dutch Railways and of Safety & Service, I get the conviction that the number of incidents is increasing. Does the Secretary of State know the sounds of how people are addressed? Can she verify that it is indeed so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u21	That is in itself a clear signal. I recognize that, too. I sometimes hear people say: don't call it in, because it's also about your own skills and how you deal with aggression. However, there is also another side. Following the incident in Hoofddorp, I attended a staff meeting last year at 4:30 in the morning in Alkmaar. There was the message from the staff and the executives that you were supposed to report everything. Even if you were spit on, for example, you had to report it, because that was better for the statistics. I share Mr Van Helvert's analysis that it is the question of whether this is the case everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr Hoogland heard on his work visit that it was said from above: please report cases. That fact already indicates that apparently it is not always reported. That's very bad, and that's very bad. Perhaps it is wonderful that the figures of the Dutch Railways show that the number of incidents is falling. However, the fact that a growing number of employees are worried and do not report incidents is very bad. That's when you marchand with your values. Where it used to be uncool to call a conductor off, now it's perfectly normal. Now it's perfectly normal for you to get a push. It's perfectly normal for you to be threatened now. Now it's perfectly normal for the knife to be put at your throat. However, I do not think that is normal. It shouldn't be possible. I would like to speak briefly about the extra armament for the employees of Security & Service. So I'm not talking about arming a conductor on the train with pepper spray. I understand that this is very difficult. However, it is now about the armament of people of Security & Service. I'm going to compare. In Germany they have a baton and handcuffs. In France they have pepper spray. In Belgium they have pepper spray and handcuffs. In the Netherlands they only have transport cuffs. Those aren't even handcuffs yet. However, someone who at some point wears handcuffs must no longer be transported by someone from Security & Service. They'll have to stay on the full platform until the police arrive. And that, while the police are being deployed at the moment, is quite right to do so with azc's, which means that they cannot be present in time. We had the same discussion about Schiphol. "There aren't enough marshals at Schiphol." The Secretary of State said I requested six more platoons. She does that for Schiphol. What does she do for the people of the Dutch Railways, Connexxion, Veolia, Arriva and Syntus? The powers aren't doing very well. The employees Safety & Service of the Dutch Railways are not allowed to do everything. Actually, they're not allowed to do anything. If there's a break-in at one of the station stores, they can't do anything. When someone rides a bike at the station, they don't like anything. If someone gets arrested, they don't like anything. They've got to stay put. They can't hand out a ticket. They must not transport the people with the conveyor belts, let alone have a place to transport them at all. None of that is going well. The VVD and Mr Madlener of the PVV were right to say: don't touch our people. You don't do that, whether you're working on the Dutch Railways, at Veolia, Arriva, Connexxion, Syntus or whatever, you don't do that. So my question is also how consultation with all these parties is going. We know that the Secretary of State is conducting a consultation with the Dutch Railways and a consultation with Veolia and all the others. Why are these two different consultations? We call on the Secretary of State to honour the commitments she made last year, those good agreements. That's a very first start. After that, we can always see if it's okay. They have to be made in the first place. That should be done as soon as possible, really before this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u23	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u24	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I'll have my answer done in three blocks. First of all, I would like to make a few general comments on the figures, the facts and what has been done so far in the area of social security. In the second block, I would like to go into more detail about the package of measures and how it stands. In the last block, I am going to try to speak on behalf of the Justice Department on the enforcement of the ban and on arms. It was not possible for the Minister of Justice to do so. I understand he had to be somewhere else in this house today. I'm gonna do my best to answer that part. The Court is, of course, entitled to the answer to the question. Let me start with a comment. When people in our country do difficult work in a public service on behalf of society, there is only one motto: we all respect those people. You don't touch them with your hands. That's crucial. That is important, because that means that a society remains a unity. We will then show how important it is for us to be able to maintain order together. It is also important, because, as Mr Smaling rightly said, these people often have to do work in difficult circumstances that ultimately benefit us all. This message sounded in every contribution. It's very important. It is also good that Mr Madlener has requested this debate. Let us continue to emphasize: you stay away from our people; when you touch them, you come to us all. A package of measures has been drawn up following a number of very terrible incidents. Not only have I done this, but together with the Ministers for Security and Justice and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, the Dutch Railways, ProRail and the trade unions. On 10 November last, a week after my arrival, we again sat down with parties to discuss exactly what was going on. As soon as I talk about the package of measures, I will go into it in detail and try to give the Chamber the facts as much as possible. You can see that a lot has happened in a short time, although it doesn't run fast enough at every point. So we have to work on that with each other. Much has happened and I have confidence in the measures. Even the trade unions who have made a noise today and say that we need to look at a number of things, write in their own press release that they have confidence in the package of measures. I don't think there's any discussion about that. The question is whether it is running fast enough and whether we are doing what is needed at every point. Some members asked what had already been done. The package of measures has so far ensured that cameras have been installed at 12 priority stations since September, including Almere Centrum and Amsterdam Sloterdijk. By the end of 2016, a total of thirty stations have cameras. The implementation is still on schedule. At two stations, The Hague Hollands Spoor and Rotterdam Lombardijen, a trial started with displays. On 23 stations the OV-chipkaartpoorts have been put into use more quickly since March. That's a lot less black riders on the train. Recently, the RET published some excellent figures on this subject. In Rotterdam today there is much more money left because there are more paying travellers. That is a fantastic side effect that is good for public transport as a whole. NS has started with additional support in the trains on risk lines and at risk moments. I'll come back to that in a moment. It's mostly about double-humanization. In the letter we have already paid attention to this, because there is still a lot to be done. That is also what the unions have been saying today, and I understand that. I think they have a point. The police have appointed twenty area agents to be deployed on and around 22 major stations, including Rotterdam and Zwolle. We are consulting all carriers and local authorities on aggression against personnel and social security throughout the public transport chain. Everyone's really hard at work. We've increased the fine, which is supported by all parties. I found that support very important in the final determination of the amount. The figures also show a decreasing trend. We need to think about that. It is not yet clear whether the trend is directly related to the package of measures introduced. For this reason, we have started work on the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre (WODC). The report of the WODC is expected in the second quarter of this year. The researchers can independently assess whether there is a relationship. Before the summer, all parties meet again to discuss progress and see if things are moving in the right direction. Mr Van Helvert mentions it all nicely and nicely that the figures show a downward trend, but says that it is not right at all. 'Cause he hears something else. Firstly, I think it is extremely important that incidents are always reported. I can't help but be crystal clear about that. Calling in is crucial. As far as I'm concerned, carriers are calling on their employees to report it. A great deal of attention is paid to this in the training and training of public transport staff. I think the unions can also help to call for this. The figures show a decrease in 2015. In 2013, there were 777 incidents. In 2014 that goes to 774 and in 2015 you suddenly see 642. By the way, that is still a terrible number. It is suggested that employees would not report incidents. This should be avoided very often in order to show a decrease rather than an increase. To find out, we should put in a fact check. Trade unions and the works council are in the conversations I'm having with the chain. I would, of course, like to invite them to confirm or deny that this suggestion is correct. After all, they are in the workplace and know it. The WODC is also going to see if the figures I have in front of me are correct. I hope that we will at least want to see the profit, because it is ultimately in the interests of all of us that this is true. If Mr Van Helvert says that non-reporting is a massive phenomenon, we must test it in practice. I didn't get those signals. In the November consultation with me, those signals did not come either. I do not rule out the possibility that this might happen, but that is something other than that it overlooks a lot of incidents in advance. So if that claim is placed here in our midst, we will have to check it out. Then we also know who is right, as I say to Mr Van Helvert. I come to the package of measures and the double-humanisation, which is the measure that is still under discussion. That is not because this measure is not good, because everyone understands the importance of it. Double mensing is now in many places for each other, but not everywhere. NS indicated earlier, also in November, that with a different deployment of staff, double manning could also be achieved at other agreed times. A discussion is currently under way between the works council, the trade unions and NS. There is also a concrete proposal for this. The Minister for Security and Justice and I said in November: let us keep abreast of this development; that is important for all of us. Previously, NS indicated that freeing capacity was a challenge, but now a proposal has been put on the table. If they do not come out among themselves, then Minister Van der Steur and I will continue this discussion in November with all the parties before the summer. That was an open invitation under the motto: we think you should be able to do it together, we also think it should be possible, but if you run into really big problems, then the door is not closed. I sent that signal right back in that first week because I think it is very important, like the Chamber. We need to get this straight. Our conductors and the staff on the train deserve that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u26	Double mensing is a very logical measure. For the conductors this is much more pleasant, but also for the public. You know, the two of you can actually control a train like that. This also results in money, because it reduces the number of black drivers. The Secretary of State's letter states that the next step is to allow double staffing on trains on Thursday and Saturday evenings after 10 p.m. So we should not act like we are talking about double-humanisation in general. No, it's just a couple of times. Wouldn't it be better to double-humanise all trains after 8 p.m. on all trains in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u27	I don't think so. If you take a measure, it must be efficient and really contribute. It is important that we know where the risks are and which times are most risky. A proposal has been made for this. The problem was that it has not been settled at all the times for which this proposal was appropriate and for which it was intended. That is what the debate is about. If that does not inevitably lead to a good outcome, then we will have to recapture this. I very much agree with that. I'm not an expert; the NS and the unions really have to do that with each other. They have to decide where it is most needed, what is most needed and when it is most needed. We do not have that expertise here, but the people in public transport themselves do have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u28	I absolutely disagree with that. It's a probability calculation. Of course you can name risks, but that does not mean that another train does not pose any risk. I think it would be very useful to have double-humanisation on all trains. That's nice for the conductors, but it's also nice for the travelers. Those people will just be on the train. They're checking tickets, too, so that's gonna pay off. Why is there so little ambition and why is there only a double manning on risk lines, or after 10:00 p.m. on Thursdays and Saturdays? Why not on Friday nights or Sunday nights? I'm just calling it. Something can always happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u29	I don't have every night of the plan in the back pocket, but what I do want to say is this. I think that what has been agreed shows a great deal of ambition. The most important thing is that we are now going to make it happen. The double-humanization has already been agreed, but the concern is whether this is going really well. I think we should settle that with each other. The proposal put forward by Mr Madlener is a different one. That's another debate. That is true, but we have made this agreement, and I think that is what the debate is about, which has also been sparked in the media today. I think we should just settle that with each other. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u30	Of course, this requires some adjustment of duty schedules, but why is this taking so long? You'd expect more urgency in this area anyway. It is really a very important measure. In the evening it is often more unsafe on the train.............................................................................................................................................................................. When can we expect the first concrete results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u31	Isn't it just in the letter that you can read that there are results already? Let us not pretend that no steps have been taken on this issue. They're set. Mrs. De Boer can see that, too. However, not all of them have yet been set up, and that is what we are working on. I hope we can get out soon. However, this is a conversation that is now being held by NS's own people. Let us make sure that they can do it right. I announced in November that, should this not work for several reasons, I would like to sit down with the Minister to help make things smooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u32	Apart from the fact that in the latter case the question is what exactly does the Secretary of State intend to do, I think that the NS is just about Thursday and Saturday. When can we expect the first results? What's agreed on that? I understand that it needs to be arranged and I understand that duty schedules need to be adjusted, but why is this taking so long? What exactly is the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u33	That has to do with capacity, doesn't it? Maybe you should hire extra people and so on sometimes. You didn't just magicalize a "can of people" from anywhere. All this needs to be regulated and funded. That's what they're working on right now. We have indicated that we will be speaking again before the summer. We often talk to each other to see if everything is in order. If I have to do that sooner, I'll be told by myself, but it's running now, also in the conversation with NS. After all, there is a proposal on the table. The Chamber and I are not negotiating right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u34	The Secretary of State says that if it has to be done sooner, she will be told. That is what we want to hear today. It cannot be that we are walking out of this Chamber today and saying: everyone has said what he found, we will go on and we will see when the solution will come. I believe that today the Secretary of State must show ambition and say clearly: I am going to make sure that the matter is settled before then. I understand that everything takes a lot of time, but it's been 11 months since the appointment was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u35	Let me put it this way. Currently, NS is in conversation with trade unions and the works council so that staff can be deployed at other times and the double-humanisation can be increased. Sometimes difficult choices are made. These are choices that must be made in that company together with the unions. A new proposal is now before us. Doesn't Mr Van Helvert agree that, from the point of view of our role, we should just give the company and the trade unions the opportunity to get out of there, as far as I am concerned today or tomorrow? I think we should see our role in this. My role comes up when it doesn't work. However, I assume that it will succeed. I think it should work, too. I think Mr Van Helvert agrees with me. That is what we are saying out loud today, but not because we want to leave the Chamber unsatisfyingly with the idea of 'well, we'll hear it'. I think that is a simple summary of a remark I did not mean to make. I think we should allow this process to happen now. We will then come to a solution quickly, and if we do not find a solution quickly, then I will be there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u36	Look, that's what I'm addressing the Secretary of State. I like that. If it doesn't come to a solution soon, I'm still here. In fact, I do not think that it will come to a solution soon. I therefore ask the Secretary of State: can she call the Dutch Railways tomorrow to ask what is going on? If it's not settled for next month, can the Secretary of State propose a new deadline for himself? I understand they have to come out on their own, but apparently that's not gonna happen soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u37	I disagree. For starters, I don't have to call tomorrow because we already called. The proposal is on the table here. That's the information the Chamber gets. This is how negotiations work: if you include some kind of sunset clause, you are sure that all parties are waiting for it. So what Mr Van Helvert is proposing may mean that there will be no progress. We just have to let this process go. Mr Van Helvert knows from me that I think the problem needs to be solved, and I know from Mr Van Helvert that he agrees, because he has made that clear loudly. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Hoogland asked about the cameras and whether there was a delay. The end date of the realization of placing the cameras is reached. On December 31, 2016, ProRail expects cameras to be on all agreed stations. Until then, ProRail has temporarily rented cameras on 12 priority stations. At the end of 2015, ProRail decided to stop the ongoing tender for cameras. That's what got into the media, too. Market parties have asked many technical questions and ProRail found that the original query would not lead to a cost-effective solution. Soon the modified request will be published again. How many gates have come? As has just been said, barriers to entry at black-riders stations, which is very important, contribute to social security in public transport. After all, 60% of the perpetrators of aggression are black riders at the same time. We therefore see that it is a very effective measure. In the past year, 28 stations have speeded up access routes and 52 stations are now completely closed. That will happen again this year. Many stations will be closed, including stations using multiple train carriers. This means that 69 stations will be closed by the end of 2016. The stations Hollands Spoor in The Hague and Amsterdam CS are then partly put into operation. The stations where major renovations are still taking place, such as Groningen and Zaandam, come in 2017. Mr Smaling asked for closer cooperation between the NS and the police. There is structural consultation between the two parties. As far as I know, both the NS and the police are satisfied with this cooperation. The police have appointed 20 territorial agents and they have now started working. They are deployed at 22 major stations, such as Amsterdam CS, Almere and Eindhoven. These are the stations where there is more than average black driving, aggression and feelings of insecurity. In addition, the NS and the police are focusing on the so-called risk lines and risk times. Mr Smaling also asked about the use of aid and the reception of troublemakers. This concerns the issue of confused persons. This is a social problem that also affects public transport. A team has been set up to deal with this problem. It is a joint team of the Ministry of Security and Justice and the VNG. Mrs. Spies, known to all of you in the Chamber, runs that team. A plan of action from this team has been sent to the Chamber. Last November there was a conversation between the NS and Mrs Spies' team. It uses the experiences of the NS. The NS has indicated that, in addition to focusing on prevention, solutions to nuisance are also needed. This is recognised by Security and Justice. It's part of the team's approach. So this is definitely being picked up and recognized. Many members said something about the bodycams. This will run until March 2016. If the NS bodycams want to enter further after the trial, they can probably do so very quickly. However, we still need to look at how we want to regulate a number of points, such as privacy, connection to camera monitoring systems and costs, but if this is successful and they want to continue this, it is a clear signal. There's been talk of a text alert. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Madlener have already argued in favour of this. Mrs Van Veldhoven asks whether this can now be done. Would it be an idea to talk to cinemas, for example? It is indeed a good idea in itself. We have no difference of opinion on that. The Ministry of V and J is working on the development of apps. We must, of course, be able to report this to the police room. So it is not a question of jubilee, but it is a matter of being able to organise properly in practice and also technically well. I think it would also be wise to take up the suggestion of speaking with the cinema owners. It is primarily the responsibility of my colleague from V and J. I will make sure that my colleague gets that suggestion, with my warm recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u38	I can also imagine that the possibility of texting is mainly used on the train and that the conductors also have their regular contact with the control room. So it doesn't necessarily need to be reported directly from the traveller to the emergency room. It's nice that the Secretary of State wants to take the point with him this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u39	Sure. Mrs De Boer asked a question about the interconnection of files from the various railway companies and the link with police files. I understand that police and transporters have agreed that carriers will see how their databases can be more interconnected. The police system is designed in such a way that it cannot communicate with a multitude of systems. So that's not so easy either. But there are also agreements on this. Mr Madlener asked why there is no national database for the ban. The travel or residence ban shall be imposed for a specific journey or station. The creation of a national database for this has not yet been explicitly pictured, but I will take the question with me. Because I think it's something to explore. I can also imagine why Mr Madlener is suggesting that. There is, however, regular consultation between carriers and also the public prosecutor and the police to exchange this type of information. If someone in region x causes very serious problems, it is of course important that that person does not have freedom elsewhere. That is also the background to Mr Madlener's question. That is the way it is being discussed. We will have to see if the idea of such a national database can provide good support, but that is ultimately up to police, prosecutors and other institutions. I cannot make a firm commitment to this now, but I would like to put it on the table as a suggestion. I come to the justice section of my response. I'm asking for clemency because I'm not a "secretary of all things." I do a lot of subjects, but not everything. Mrs De Boer has asked for the 200% penalty for violence against public servants. How often is this requirement applied? Research carried out by V and J shows that the 200% increase in the penalty requirement for violence against workers with a public task is taken into account as standard. Prosecutors take this into account in the assessment of the final penalty requirement. That is also defined in the D.A.'s directive. The Court received information on this matter on 21 May 2014. Mrs De Boer also mentioned the fines. She actually wants to increase the fines even further. We are going to evaluate these amounts after two years, but they are really drawn up in broad consultation with the people who have to work with them and with the state's attorney's office. The proportionality of the amount always plays a role, but also the question as to how it might affect people who are fined. Then we must also take the signal from the conductors themselves. They say: if you make the fine too high, that in itself triggers additional aggression. I would like to put that argument here now, because I have to deal with conductors, for example. You have all said that we are doing it for that group and that we must take it seriously. I hope you are sensitive to this argument on this point. Mr. Smaling asked about the physical police station. Services to citizens by the police at stations are different from services in the offices or at support points. The police housing plan was drawn up in consultation with the regional mayors. I say quite honestly that this will not be Mr Smaling's favourite answer to his question, but I cannot say more about it. I'm not talking about where the police stations are located. I have to leave it at that. It's no different. Mr Van Helvert asked why part of the NS staff cannot have batons and pepper spray. I heard he wasn't talking about all the NS personnel. The Minister of V and J deals with the granting of the power of violence to boas. In June 2015, the Chamber was informed of this. Then he announced that the arms of NS personnel were not on the agenda. The NS itself is not in favour of providing staff with additional means of violence. Trade unions have also expressed confidence in the measures contained in the package. Implementation of these measures is expected to make an effective contribution to combating incidents of violence. By the way, there are also very serious concerns about allowing additional means of violence such as baton and pepper spray to boas. This does not even have much to do with the fundamental question of who is responsible for the monopoly of violence. That is, of course, an argument in itself, but it is true here that when you hand over such a weapon to people, this can lead to escalation and therefore to additional violence. Every step you take in such an area sometimes has repercussions. You have to take that into account when you make these kinds of proposals. We have been asked how the feedback of the D.A. and the police will proceed on the follow-up in the event of incidents of violence. In principle there is feedback, but this process is not always going well. If it's a criminal case, this is the D.A.'s job and police reports are made. Sometimes it's hard. If NS knows, this can be reported back, but it's not always known.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u40	Have you answered all the questions in the field of security?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u41	There is one final question, namely Mr Madlener's question as to whether dogs are being used. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u42	That was a short answer. I call Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u43	The Secretary of State says there are also disadvantages to arms. Absolutely, armament can also trigger escalation. The Dutch Railway Safety & Service service is usually used when the situation has already escalated. The conductor tries to de-escalate, but if there's no other way, if it escalates, he calls Security & Service. That's the situation that matters to me. Last year, eleven months ago, the trade unions and also the Dutch Railways said that they have confidence in them. We are now eleven months away and the incidents are not getting any less. I hear the Secretary of State calls regularly. If she does that again tomorrow and asks how people are looking at it now, I think that the trade unions feel very differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u44	Two things. You're saying it's not gonna be any less. We have just agreed that we should check that first. My numbers show something different than you claim. That needs to be checked. The second is that the trade unions are still expressing their confidence in the package, even today in their press release. There has been no request from me, nor, to my knowledge, from the Minister of Security and Justice, to extend the scope for violence. The debate that is taking place on the table is about the double manslaughter. They wanted to send a signal about that. Again, I am actually answering questions on behalf of my colleague. If Mr Van Helvert wants a different policy than the one that has been discussed for a long time, including with the Chamber, and which has been considered with all those involved, I would point out that this is not the time to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u45	The Secretary of State could, as State Secretary for the railways and trains and conductors, urge the Minister of Justice to take action. If a union stands up for a package that package is good, it just needs to be implemented, it doesn't mean you shouldn't think about other things either. That is why the call to take the question of how trade unions are looking at it in these many bubbles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u46	No, I'm not gonna do that. I just need to be clear about that. I think the package as it stands is good. I am very much prepared to discuss every day whether any measure agreed is going according to plan or whether something extra should be done. The monopoly of violence and the way in which, for example, we allocate resources to security guards within NS has been discussed extensively. There is no other request on the table now, not even from the unions. Then I'm not gonna call someone myself to ask if maybe eleven months ago he had a different view on that, but not anymore. I don't think that's the route. I don't have a reason for that right now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u47	I have a question, a little along the lines of the previous question. I have a lot of contact with conductors and with the NS and sometimes you hear two different stories. When it comes to the safety of conductors, I really think we should be 100% behind that conductor. Just think about it. You have to go through a train like that by yourself at night. It is truly incredible that there are still people who dare. Then how is it that so many conductors have a completely different feeling about the feedback from the police and say: I report, that's a whole hassle and then you don't hear from it anymore? That's impossible, isn't it? That's unacceptable, isn't it? Whatever the Secretary of State is meeting with V and J or NS, it's about that conductor, isn't it? She's got to be 100% behind that conductor, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u48	Sure. And I think we do, too, all of us. I do not have the impression that one person in this Chamber or in the Cabinet is saying that he does not support it. However, we are discussing whether any measure proposed will do what it really should. There's just discussion about that. The use of force and the granting of more opportunities may not be effective, as is the amount of that fine. Conductors also say, "Watch that out." That's what I'm listening to. When there are real problems in this area, we must, of course, discuss them with interested parties. Then we will. That is what we have the table for, so that can simply be discussed. I'm fine with that, but then we'll have to put it on the table. At least that's the last time I don't know, because I wasn't there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u49	I don't want to talk about all the measures. I am referring specifically to the cooperation between conductor and police. A conductor who, for example, has been spit on and reports that it is already a very hassle, such a spit might come across again the next day in his train and that is, of course, terrifying. I think that conductor (a) should be able to count on there to be police in no time to arrest this guy and (b) to hear what happens to him afterwards. Then the conductor knows that he can sleep quietly, because the person in question has had such a punishment that he will never do it again. I had also asked that question has not yet been answered what the chance is if you do something on the train or on the bus and what happens next to such a perpetrator. Does he always get such a heavy punishment that he'll leave it out of his head to do it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u50	I would like to propose that those last questions be put in writing to the Minister of V and J, because I do not have the figures on the chance of taking them now. I'm not sure they're available that way either. I can imagine that this would require a complicated investigation, which is not just there. I do know, however, that the first point is that there is regular consultation between NS, police and others, particularly in the area of cooperation and feedback. If there are complaints about this, as I hear you say, they must come to the joint table and then we will discuss them. I'm very open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u51	I'll come back to the ggz issue. The Secretary of State mentioned the work of Mrs Spies. That is fine in itself, but instead of burdening Mrs Spies with this, you can also ask yourself whether there is too much savings in the reception of people who depend on the ggz. Is that also a way of looking back at decisions that have been taken in recent years and which may not work out well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u52	In this case, too, I say that I am being overasked. I've been here half the D.A.'s office, and now you're asking me to add VWS. That's too much to ask. It is important that we recognise that confused persons are a problem, including in public transport. That's what's being dealt with. After all, there's a team. You say: let us not burden Mrs Spies with it. I think it would be good if we did. Then there will also be a coherent package to deal with all these issues. You want to go all the way back to another debate. From your point of view, and perhaps those of others too, I cannot see that, Mr Smaling, I understand that you want to have that debate, but this is not the time for that, as much as I would like to debate it with you; that is always a celebration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u53	Finally, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u54	The Secretary of State has been in the Lower House since she was 15...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u55	You can't do that, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u56	You can't do that. You can't do that until you're 18!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u57	We also do a fact check on that!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u58	... so I'm assuming she did all the wallets once, hence my question. Seriously, is the Secretary of State prepared to bring this point into the cabinet, so that the cuts in recent years have led to this kind of problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u59	No, I'm not prepared to do that. The same debate is now starting with me on a detour. You assume that I share your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you. I'm just looking at the MPs to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I give the floor to Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr. Chairman. Violence in public transport is really unacceptable. We are very concerned about the safety of conductors. I think most Members share this, and I'm happy about that. Nevertheless, we believe that much more needs to be done. The package that has been agreed has not even been implemented, but in our view it is not enough. I've asked the Secretary of State to investigate the possibility of getting caught, but she says I should be with another minister, V and J. Let me do it. I will not table my motion on this point. However, I would like to agree that the Secretary of State is fighting for a well-organized feedback. Of course, it has to be with the Justice Department. If you're a conductor experiencing such a serious incident, it's really a traumatic experience. It's perfectly normal that you at least hear what happens when you hand the perpetrator over to the Justice Department. That is also important for the processing of such an incident. It's the least we can do. At this point, the policy is still inadequate, hence the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that 642 incidents of violence were reported in 2015;]] [[noting that not all incidents are reported and therefore the actual number of incidents is much higher;]] [[noting that many conductors no longer hear of the further (criminal) handling after a notification or declaration;]] [[Considers that proper handling and feedback help to deal with a violent incident;]] [[calls on the Government to improve feedback to the conductors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u62	My final motion speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the recent violent crimes have led to a high social call for the return of the railway police;]] [[noting that the Chairman of the Society and Security Foundation, also Professor of Risk Management at the University of Twente, Mr Pieter van Vollenhoven, also advocates the return of the railway police;]] [[calls on the government to re-introduce the railway police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State. The SP is filing another motion with the CDA. Mr Van Helvert will read that motion. I have one motion of my own. I hope she falls within the competence of the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Utrecht Central Station with some 57 million passengers each year and as the hub of our railway network still does not have the desired police station;]] [[noting that the construction of Utrecht Central Station already took account of the completion of a police station;]] [[Whereas a police station at Utrecht Centraal Station can significantly increase travellers' willingness to report and reduce police driving times in the event of serious incidents of violence;]] [[calls on the government to make efforts to open a police station in Utrecht Centraal before the summer of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u64	I think it is very important in this kind of debate that the facts and figures are correct, otherwise we are going to roll around on that. No one would benefit if statistics were badly related, especially the conductors. I would like to draw your attention to that. In many debates we instruct the rulers to come quickly with things and to settle things like a hare, but on this point I would like to place a great deal of emphasis on haste and power. I've also been asking the Secretary of State to get along with other things lately. I am prepared, if necessary, to ask the Secretary of State to temporize it if this can be resolved quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr. Chairman. If everyone keeps their hands off the staff, we won't need all these other measures anymore. Let that be a call. For the rest, I wish the Secretary of State every success in carrying out the agenda. Keep us posted on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr. Chairman. I always have to be careful not to get despondent in this kind of debate. During a lost hour on Sunday I sometimes look back at the 1991 incident in which the first member of staff of NS died. Then I look at now and then I think: what has changed and what has improved? Let me come back to the most important point of today's debate. The numbers show a decrease, but if you put your ear to listen, you will find that there is doubt about that. Mr Van Helvert has indicated this, and I myself have seen it. I think it is important that we look again at whether those figures are correct, whether they are reported, and whether it can be reported in such a way that there is no whole paperwork attached to them, which means that there is still a threshold to do so. That's profit. I also agree with Mrs van Veldhoven, who said that we should not have been standing here if everyone behaved as they should against public transport staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to a couple of things. As for the double-humanization, "for the summer," I think it's rather late. I can make a motion here, but the responsibility would lie with the Secretary of State, which is clearly with the NS. I therefore call on the NS from this place to come forward as soon as possible with the proposals and to introduce double-humanization on Thursday and Saturday after 10 p.m. I think it's incredibly important that you walk on that train together. Then the experiment with the bodycams. Bodycams are our favorite. There will be an evaluation in March. We'll wait and see how the experiment works out. We see it as a nice addition to all the measures that are now being taken. We wish the Secretary of State every success in its implementation. I still have a procedural question. In March, this evaluation was due to be evaluated after one year. That's for April 1st. I would also like to hear how action is taken, how successful the measures are and when they are introduced. It would be good if the Court were to be informed of a timetable for the introduction of all these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr. Chairman. Everyone hates the violence. We've heard that we all share this in the Chamber. But when it comes to the solution, it suddenly becomes difficult: "conversations," "lasts a bit," "bad." What are the talks between the Dutch Railways and the trade unions about now? On 11 March, the director of the Dutch Railways said: we are going to arrange the double manning. He had been visiting a beat-up conductor. He also said, "Don't let it have been for nothing." And now it's not gonna be taken care of. The Dutch Railways, the trade unions and the Cabinet have made agreements together, with the three of them. So they all have three responsibilities to solve this. We in the House of Representatives are about the responsibility of the cabinet. That's why I'm addressing the Secretary of State with the next motion. After all, the cabinet also said on the same day that it was going to take care of this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in practice the agreements of March last year have not been complied with;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the comprehensive approach to security of OP personnel, aimed at the full implementation from 1 April 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u69	My second motion concerns arms. In domain IV you can just use baton and pepper spray. It is now common for a municipal boa to be allowed up to the gates for the boa, the cabinet has already closed the gates after which he stands there with his weapons. Security & Service staff are not allowed to do anything within the gates. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas security guards of the Dutch Railways must not use pepper spray or baton;]] [[Whereas there are signals calling for additional armed guards of the Dutch Railways;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Dutch Railways, to examine whether additional arms of the Dutch Railways' security guards are possible and desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28642-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u70	As far as I know, this was explored, also in connection with the incident last time. The conclusion was that it was neither effective nor desirable by the railways themselves. The question is what needs to be re-examined. Or did I miss something in the investigation that's been done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u71	I have no faith in that investigation. When I look at our neighbors in Germany, I see that it can be done there. In Belgium it is possible, in France it is possible. That's where they all have weapons. And here in the Netherlands it seems impossible. I understand there's been confidence in the package. I have that confidence, too. However, the package has not yet been implemented and we can see that the staff are running into problems. I say we have to look at that again and see if weapons are possible. It's okay. It's okay. Let me give you the following example, because that is what is really happening. A municipal boa may wear pepper spray and a baton in domain IV. Someone is running from the station because an employee of the Dutch Railways is not allowed to do so, while outside the gates a boa is allowed to carry things. At the Dutch Railways the people of Safety & Service are now advised to chase the people out of the station. Then it's not their problem anymore. That's what's happening now. Maybe the Secretary of State can take that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u72	You may ask a short question, Mr Hoogland, and then you will give a brief answer, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u73	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm not from the long and many interrupters, but this is fundamental. If Mr Van Helvert has no confidence in the research that has been carried out, why is he asking again for an investigation? If he had no confidence in it, would he say that it would be right to introduce it? I could imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u74	No, the motion asks to see if it can't be done. Why should it be possible in Germany, France and Belgium, but not in the Netherlands? Meanwhile, the Dutch Railways have a new director and there is also a new Secretary of State. What is wrong with looking together with the trade unions, Safety & Service and the works councils to see if it is not desirable to do so anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u75	Mr. Chairman. I would like to proceed immediately to give an opinion on the motions that have been tabled. First of all, the motion for a resolution on item No. 67 by Mr Madlener. This motion is about feedback. I would like to make a proposal to Mr Madlener. I would like to discuss this with my colleague from V and J and, if necessary, with a number of interested parties. I will inform Mr Madlener about this. My request is, however, whether he can hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u76	I think that's a reasonable suggestion. Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u77	At the request of Mr Madlener, I propose his motion (28642, No. 67). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u78	Then I come to the motion on part No. 68. This motion by Mr Madlener advocates the re-introducing of the railway police. This motion I must advise against. In the formation of the national police, the railway police, as well as the road, water and air police, became part of the National Unit and the Infrastructure Service. Integrated security is thereby secured, also in consultation with NS. Mr Madlener has seen that extra people have arrived at certain stations, but that is a different proposal than he is making here today. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 69 by Mr Smaling. He wants a police station on Utrecht CS. I must also advise against this motion, if only for procedural reasons. I'm not in charge of that. I think the Minister for Security and Justice would say that this is an issue that is usually decided at regional level, with the parties concerned, in good coordination. Police stations are not stationed here or there from The Hague. For that reason, too, I advise against the motion. Mr Smaling said that together we need to make an appeal to get the figures and the data sharp. I very much agree with him. I shall also say a few things to Mr Van Helvert in a moment. I come now to Mrs De Boer's question. As part of the evaluation, she felt that we should have a clear timetable for action. As mentioned above, the evaluation report will be delivered in the second quarter. So it's already available for the summer. Part of the evaluation is a complete overview of when what measures have been launched, what has been achieved and what effects the measures have had both individually and in conjunction. In fact, that is exactly what she is asking. In the motion in part No. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Smaling asked for an integrated approach and implementation as soon as possible. However, if I release my own fact check on this motion, I must give Mr Van Helvert a profit warning. He says that "in practice there is no double-humanisation yet." That is factually incorrect. I have said that on a number of routes there is already double-humanisation, but not at all. It also says that "the test with the bodycams has not yet been completed, let alone applied." The test is just the application. That means we're doing the test to see if it's a success. You've heard that we'll move on if that turns out to be the case. You say that the implementation of the station ban has not yet been completed. We've been working with that for a long time. In other words, you write a lot of assumptions about this as facts. I'm gonna tick them off with facts, one at a time, I hope. Then you say it all has to be done by April 1st. I wouldn't want to do it like that. I really agree with Mr Van Helvert that matters deserve urgent attention. He's got me by his side and he's gonna hunt me down as soon as he needs it, but I don't need this motion for a resolution. I therefore advise her against it, also for all kinds of substantive reasons that I have just mentioned. The assumptions don't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u79	Mr Van Helvert, you may only make comments on the motion. We're not going to have the debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is essential. The Secretary of State falls over all those facts that have not yet been fulfilled, while she thinks so. I am prepared to remove all these considerations. I shall then have a motion to ask the Secretary of State to carry out the agreements made before 1 April, perhaps in a slightly more tidy manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u81	You say now: I want to leave out all these facts. They're not facts! You're pulling out of the closet with a lot of eloquence contributions. You say a lot of things. "It's all wrong" and: "It's not going well at all!" In fact, I have to say that, fortunately, you are not right in a lot of things that you now call 'facts' and just put down. I hope that you and I both agree, because that means that progress has been made. Yes, we need to move on a number of points, but it is not certain that everything will be ready in all cases on 1 April. Nor do I think it is fair for you to ask this, because you know that a number of things are really difficult to achieve. You have heard from me how I am in the debate. That is why I do not think it is wise to do business with each other in this way. I'm just open about that and honest about it. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u82	Finally, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u83	As I have said, I would like to delete all the considerations in order to avoid the two of us falling over them. If the Secretary of State has not yet settled something on 1 April, but can indicate when it will be settled, that is also fine. That's how the Secretary of State can read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u84	I understand that Mr Van Helvert is now trying to achieve the same by another route. At this moment the conversation about the double manning at the table at NS is being held. The Chamber will have an evaluation before the summer. She knows I'll speak again. I'm going to release a fact check on the Chamber's statement that not enough is reported. Either that statement doesn't add up, or I'm gonna make sure everyone does. In other words: I think we have really moved a lot further, but I choose my own path. Mr Van Helvert may, of course, make a proposal to do it differently, but it is also my right to say that I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u85	The motion in part No. 71.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u86	I'm going to dissuade them, too, Mr. Chairman. I now have no new information to show that the violence package available is not satisfactory. I say, like Mr Hoogland, that research has been carried out which does not show that. It has also been discussed, but it has not been said that things have to be different. Mr Van Helvert says that the investigation is incorrect and that there is a need, but I have not found it. That's why I'm deposing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-28-tweedekamer-10.u87	Then this debate has ended. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m., after which the debate on the amendment of the Tobacco Act will be discussed.
