ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Quite a few people are in uncertainty about their retirement. First of all, the Labour Party is thinking of older people who are now retired, but it is also thinking of all workers who are currently retiring. They too suffer from uncertainty. We have become even more uncertain since the European Central Bank decided last Thursday to reduce all interest rates. This has unintended consequences, at least that is what we hope for our unique Dutch system, our collective and solidarity pension system. This decision, as we read, will be able to hit our pensions properly. When this system was designed ten years ago, the great fear was a situation of high interest rates but not an absurd situation of 0% or even negative interest rates, which could take a long time. The calculation system of our pensions seems to run counter to its limits. That is a more than painful development, and that is why I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State for SZW. Can it clarify the consequences of this decision, given that many people have doubts about it? Does she have that in the picture yet? Can she tell us how this will affect the pensions of all those older people and workers who are currently building up their pensions? Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with our supervisor, the Netherlands Bank, and pension funds this week, to see what we can do to prevent negative consequences and to see if the system of calculations has alternatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mrs Vermeij that it is a matter of great concern that interest rates have been adjusted downwards again for pension funds. We all know, of course, that it also has other consequences for the economy. If you have to take out a mortgage now, it will make you happier, but the pension funds are really worried. Mrs Vermeij asks whether we can provide insight into the consequences of this decision. Of course, this has a further depressing effect on interest rates, which makes pension funds' liabilities even more expensive. A number of funds have just announced the level of coverage. This decision has not yet been taken into account. If the next level of coverage becomes clear again, then it is clear what this decision by the ECB will result in. I also promised the Chamber that I would send it the whole picture, which will be clear in April and which will be drawn up by the Netherlands Bank, in May, accompanied by an appreciation of the cabinet, in which it will give a response to that picture. I'll just add that for the sake of completeness. The second question is whether I want to conclave with the Dutch Bank this week. The answer to that is yes. I already made the deal for that, so I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	I have two further supplementary questions. Not every retired or not everyone who works buys a house or plans to do so. So we can't cross that off one-on-one; I just want to straighten that out. I would like to hear a little earlier what the precise consequences are for the people who are building up a pension and for the people who are receiving a pension. I would also like the House to receive a letter in the near future on the outcome of the meeting which the Secretary of State will have this week; for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'd like to make a commitment to that last one. I can, of course, let the Chamber know what matters we are discussing. Edoch, I can really give the Chamber in May a good appreciation of the situation over the 2015 annual album. So I think it would be a good idea to send that letter to the Chamber in May so that we can really do something about it. Luckily, for the 2016 annual disc, any discounts are still barely on the table. Our new financial review framework helps because the discounts can be spread over ten years. That is my answer to Mrs Vermeij's second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	This subject not only lives here in this house, but also out here on the street. And rightly so. Last week's decision led to quite a few publications in the newspapers. It also deals with the question of what this means for a truly unique system in Europe. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to consider whether she can let the Chamber know sooner what the consequences of this decision could be for pensions. I am fine with getting the whole picture in May, but the Labour Party still considers it very relevant that the Secretary of State should take this decision in advance. I can see from the nod of my colleagues that a few other groups agree with that. That is a supplementary question. The Secretary of State is prepared to inform us of the outcome of that discussion. It is important that the discussion is not only about what happened but also about what we could do about it, because the current ftk is very interest sensitive and with these absurd low interest rates it has extremely painful effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am very keen to include all these matters in the May letter. I would, of course, be happy to inform the Chamber after my conversation with the Dutch Bank about what has changed in that regard. However, we can only really nail our heads when we have the April figures, because then you can see what the implications for 2017 are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	I see a whole row of MPs standing by the interrupting microphone. I know Mr De Graaf was the first, but we need to see who comes next.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	We just saw a well directed, but poorly executed PvdA play, because the pensioners and the people who are building up pensions have nothing to do with the questions and the answers. You can talk to the central bank in the Netherlands, you can talk to pension funds, but you need to talk to the ECB, because that's where the big cause lies. With Dutch pension money, the ECB indirectly pays the debts of the southern EU countries. Our pensioners are the victims of this. Why does the Secretary of State not go to the ECB to put his fist on the table there and ensure that the ECB removes at least the cause of this problem, so that our pensioners will be left with more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr De Graaf knows better than anyone that it is not for me to go to the ECB. He also knows more than anyone how the ECB prepares this kind of decision-making and that the Netherlands is involved in this in itself. Mr De Graaf is asking a bit about the familiar road. It is also not a play in the sense that I have not expressed my concern about its significance for our funds for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	Your second question, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	We can all express concerns and extend things for us to April and May. The Netherlands does indeed have a little influence over the twenty-eight, and there again a very small part of the decision-making process. Dutch pension money continues to pay off the debts of the South, such as Italy and Spain. Why is the Secretary of State not preparing a trip from the euro? At least it will help our pensioners, then they will have certainty, and then our unique system can simply be maintained. I would like a clasp-and-ready answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	This debate has already been held on many occasions, including with colleagues from Finance. If you were to say goodbye to the euro, of course there are quite other repercussions. We are now discussing the impact of interest rates on pension funds in the Netherlands. That's a very serious matter. That is why I find it very pleasant to sit with the Chamber about this and to discuss it with the Dutch Bank, which is an important stakeholder in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	The very low interest rate is bad news for all pensioners and all workers building up pensions. The alarming conclusion is also that Mr Draghi of the ECB says that we will keep that low interest rate for years to come. Gambling at higher interest rates doesn't solve it. What would help is a system in which people have their own pension fund so that pensioners' money is not treated in the same way as someone who has to work for another 40 years. Is the Secretary of State prepared to postpone the reform of the pension system, which Mrs Vermeij also believes is running against its borders, but to put forward proposals for own pension schemes this year so that pensioners will be less dependent on interest rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	I am in conclave with the Chamber on what a new system might look like. I believe that we will have a general discussion on this on 30 March. The Chamber also held hearings on this matter. I think it is very important to take the system together. I say to Mr Van Weyenberg that I would like to speak with the Chamber on this matter. Of course, you always look at the way you find a beautiful balance for all generations. This element also plays a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u15	We must indeed look at the ECB, but let us see what we can do here in this house today, because that will help everyone. That's fucking hard, to put it the way it feels. Mrs Vermeij has asked a number of questions. I very much agree with her that the end of May is too late, given the urgency of the problem. I ask the Secretary of State to come forward with a letter and, if necessary, share information. In that letter, but perhaps also now, will the Secretary of State comment on the fact that all pension funds, and certainly the Pension Federation, have indicated that they are looking for a different type of contract? Can the Secretary of State respond to this and give a further appreciation in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u16	As I said in the debate with Mrs Vermeij, I would like to do my best. This means that, if appropriate, I would very much like to share information with the Chamber, as Mrs Lodder calls it, even after my discussion with the Dutch Bank. In May, I will then forward the appreciation of the cabinet to the Chamber. For this we do need the figures of the Dutch Bank for the year before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u17	Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mrs Lodders, do you have a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u19	No, I don't have a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u20	It is your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u21	I asked a question about pension funds, but the Secretary of State did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u22	Then you have a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mrs. Lodders mentioned the new contract. We must also discuss this with the Pension Federation, also in the context of what Mr Van Weyenberg just said. I imagine that we will also discuss this with the Chamber on 30 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u24	I now hear all kinds of data mentioned in the future. There is also talk of information coming to the Chamber. The fact is, however, that a lot of people are in trouble at home today. They want to know how the Secretary of State looks at it. Is the Secretary of State willing to explain to those troubled people at home what's going on? If she doesn't want to do that, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u25	The fact that our funds are under pressure not only because of interest rates but also because of the situation on the financial markets is as ready as ever. We have agreed that we will provide insight in May. We have also said to each other that, fortunately, there will be hardly any discounts for the year 2016. If there were discounts under the new ftk in 2017, we should not, as at first, let them fall on the mat very abruptly. They can be smeared in ten years. That helps a lot, so I can report, but that doesn't mean that I do understand that people are worried. I very much agree with Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mrs Lodders had asked a question, but she did not receive an answer. So she has the opportunity to repeat that question. So it's not a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u27	No. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had asked if the Secretary of State would now comment on noises from the Pension Federation and various pension funds about a new type of contract, and if she would otherwise respond in a letter for the AO of 30 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u28	I did agree to it, though. I said that this new contract will, of course, play a role in the AO of 30 March. If Mrs Lodders wants me to take up my findings on what is now happening in the Pension Federation, which I would like to share with the Chamber by 30 March anyway, I am, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u29	This is not about the new pension system. No matter how you reform the pension system: if the interest rate is 0%, every system suffers from it. As a result of the ECB's policy, pensioners and savers in the Netherlands, who have saved 1,300 billion euros together, pay for the debtors. The question is: has it ever been the intention of the European Central Bank to buy up EUR 80 billion in government bonds from mainly southern countries every month? That is €1,000 per family per month throughout the euro area. Is it within the ECB's mandate to deal with interest and debt buy-back in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u30	That question should be addressed in the context of the ECB. I can therefore imagine that Mr Omtzigt shares that question with the Minister of Finance. However, we are now discussing our pension system. I conclude, in my view, with the whole Chamber, that this low interest rate, especially if it stays low for a long time, is not exactly conducive, and then I still express myself very euphemistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u31	The Secretary of State is here on behalf of the entire government, including the Minister of Finance. I am very surprised that the Secretary of State, who is talking about pensions and the EUR 1 300 billion, has no answer to the question of whether or not the ECB remains within his mandate. It is very political what they do there. Now that she does not have that answer, I ask her to ensure that, within a week, a cabinet position comes to the Chamber indicating whether this buy-back policy and interest rate policy fall within the ECB mandate, or whether they fall outside the mandate and, therefore, pensions are unduly affected by Mr Draghi's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u32	That is, of course, Mr Omtzigt's appreciation. I would ask him to put this down in the context of a debate on fiscal and financial matters, because that is where it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u34	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u35	No, Mr Omtzigt, you've been there twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u36	But we're just asking for information from the government. That information is about whether the ECB's policy falls within the mandate. This Secretary of State doesn't even want to answer that question in full with a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr. Omtzigt,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u38	Surely we can get a full answer from the government? Not now, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr Omtzigt, I give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u40	The Secretary of State will talk to many parties, including the Dutch Bank, but what options does she have? What are concrete proposals it would like to discuss with the Netherlands Bank, for example, to see what it can do about this? Because only talk about the analysis of the situation, and that is what we are doing here in the Chamber. Can the Secretary of State give an insight into the possibilities it sees to meet the beneficiaries who are in difficulties as a result of the ECB's policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u41	When we talk about our pension system, we are talking about the so-called second pillar. Of course, you build that second pillar together with your employer; that is what I say to those who listen in. So employers and employees are on the fund boards and can decide for themselves how to deal with their fund. We have, of course, declared a framework applicable from the Chamber and the government. Within that framework, I can look with the Dutch Bank to see if we can do something and if so, what. However, it must be very clear that the final responsibility will always remain with the fund's management. That's one. Mrs Schouten is right to ask what other instruments I have for meeting pensioners if there are any discounts next year. I say it all very carefully, because it can of course be that things improve. In the budget preparations, we always look at purchasing power figures. Then the government can make a proposal to repair these purchasing power plates if the situation would not be well balanced for a different group in society. That's important. As a government, the Cabinet and the Chambers, we are also talking about the first pillar, which is called AOW. That AOW is solid, but that's also a vehicle that you could use to see how you could meet people. I say it all very carefully, but Mrs Schouten rightly asks what instruments you could use.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u42	The Dutch pension funds together have about 1,300 to 1,400 billion. Before the crisis, that was 700 billion. They have more money than ever in cash, and yet the whole world thinks it's going really bad. And we know: on paper things are bad, but that's because they have to count poor. And when the interest goes down, they seem poorer, poorer and poorer. What will the Secretary of State do at the Dutch Bank? Is she going to say, "Stop the calculation you're using, for I'm going to come up with something new, something that the funds don't have to count poor, but they don't have to count rich?" Is she going to come up with another way of calculating? Otherwise, the Dutch pension ship, led by Captain Klijnsma, will go against the iceberg. The Secretary of State doesn't want that, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u43	I am absolutely not of that kind, so I can shake Mr Ulenbelt's hand in that regard. However, we must also think very carefully about the fact that pension funds are not only related to the current generation of pensioners, but also to all those people who are now making contributions and are therefore also part of pension funds. They should also be entitled to a pension in 30 years' time. So, of course, we have to look at it very carefully every time: how much money do we have in cash to give all those people, young and old, just a good old age provision in the long run? I know that I do not always think exactly the same as Mr Ulenbelt on the way in which you apply accounting rules, but that is precisely why we have devised the new financial review framework with all of us. If interest rates are not going well or otherwise, you can at least spread the discounts in ten years' time. That'll help. Luckily, it doesn't happen abruptly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr Ulenbelt, you may ask a second question, but that means that the SP can no longer ask questions during Question Time. I hear you now saying that you have not received an answer, but I do not think so. It's done. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-15-tweedekamer-3.u45	What will the Secretary of State say to the Dutch Bank?
