ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Venezuela helped Wiels in power, headlined De Telegraaf. The piece contained a disgusting story about Venezuela's involvement in the political parties in Curaçao. An anonymous informant, called Simone for security, went through it up close. She sees the political leaders of Curaçao running down the door of the Venezuelan consulate. Although the involvement with Pueblo Soberano was greatest, the contact between the consulate and some other political parties is also close, Simone says. Anyone who acts against the Kingdom seems welcome. For example, the contact with Charles Cooper, in 2012 list leader of Partido MAN, would be excellent. Also the now convicted of corruption MFK leader Gerrit Schotte is a well-known guest in the red building on the Scharlooweg. Simone: "Consul Sonia Alvarado completely melted away for Gerrit." Now there will be elections on Curaçao next Friday. In the polls, Gerrit Schotte's MFK is at the top of the polls and the MFK is mentioned by several parties as a coalition partner. This man, Gerrit Schotte, has been convicted of corruption, bribery and money laundering. The judge even said the following words about Gerrit Schotte at the time of the conviction. "By your actions, you have seriously damaged the trust of citizens. Your personal interest was always at the forefront," according to the judge, "and nothing shows that you see that such action was inadmissible." This man has a chance of getting back on the buttons of the Curaçao administration. I'm predicting a state-of-the-art chaos. That's why I'm asking the following questions. What is the appreciation of the cabinet for the interference of a foreign power in elections within the Kingdom? Has there been any contact with the embassy or the ambassador of Venezuela with regard to this information? If so, what was the reaction? If not, why hasn't there been any contact?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman refers to a newspaper article in which an anonymous informant talks about contacts between political parties in Curaçao and Venezuela's representative in Curaçao. Curaçao is an autonomous country within the Kingdom. According to Curaçao's own legislation, funding by a foreign power of a political party active on Curaçao is not allowed. If this anonymous informant has reason to worry, the logical way to report it or at least to make the information at his disposal available to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Public Prosecutor's Office in Curaçao has also shown in the recent past to take seriously reports of abuses by politicians. Mr Bosman himself referred to Mr Schotte's recent condemnation, but politicians in Curaçao were also condemned earlier. Recent history thus shows that the Public Prosecutor's Office in Curaçao is well equipped to take criminal action against Curaçao in the event of concrete indications of violation of the law... foreign financing would be a violation of the law in Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u3	This is also a concrete case. It's also an example. The problems are big and I think recognizable, not only on Curaçao but certainly also on Sint-Maarten. There are also cases of buying votes. There, too, serious attempts have been made to buy the board. There's connections to people from the mob. There is the following risk. When people like this get the power and are able to put people in places, such as in the administration of a central bank, the mafia gets the chance to take over the central bank of, for example, Curaçao or Saint Martin. Elections are the basis of democracy. We cannot risk buying democratic governance there. The Committee on Kingdom Relations has asked for independent monitoring of the elections on the islands. Is that a request made? Is that an offer made? Has there been any mention of it at St. Martin's, where there were elections yesterday? Will it happen next Friday on Curaçao and hopefully next year on Aruba?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr Bosman pointed out the risks involved in the incorrect conduct of an election process. I agree with him that these risks are high and that this is undesirable. Sint-Maarten is also an autonomous country within the Kingdom. Both Curaçao and Sint-Maarten can use support from the Netherlands, if that is appreciated. We have indeed pointed out to both countries the possibility of inviting foreign election observers, but it is up to the countries themselves to make use of them or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u5	Clear. I am pleased that the Minister indicates that there are autonomous countries and their own responsibility, but I am nevertheless referring to Article 43 (1) which states that ensuring good governance is, in principle, done by the countries themselves. However, if there are concerns about ensuring good governance, Article 2 shall also apply. It states that the Kingdom must guarantee that good governance. Does the Minister believe that the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten have good governance in relation to the elections? Or does the Minister see room for improvement in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u6	The guarantee function does not mean that in all cases the Netherlands enters into the freedom of action of an autonomous country. As I said, in the very recent past, the Public Prosecutor's Office in Curaçao has acted adequately in cases where there were concrete indications of corruption by politicians. That action has also led to convictions. This shows that the institutions of the country of Curaçao are able to act effectively in cases where there is reason to do so. Therefore, the use of the guarantee function is not at issue at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you to the Minister for his answers. Know that the VVD is deeply concerned about the future of democracy. This applies for next Friday on Curaçao, but certainly also on St.Maarten and Aruba. If we do not monitor things properly, if we do not monitor the elections, if we do not monitor what is happening on Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, then those countries will slide into corruption and disorder. The steps have been seen. There were improvements, but I will see great problems in the election on Curaçao next Friday, should Gerrit Schotte's party become the biggest on Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u9	It is, of course, about a special event, namely elections. Reports are constantly popping up that the elections on the Caribbean islands are not going well. We are buying influence, we are buying votes, and we are still in court over the elections that took place four years ago. In the meantime, the parliament that was elected at that time has been in prison for four years. That makes this a special occasion. Is it not necessary for the cabinet to consult with the countries of the Kingdom to see whether we can better guarantee these elections, whether we can get more transparency in the financing of parties, how the procedures are going and what the guarantees are about them? We now have, as Mr Bosman said, a guarantee function at Kingdom level. Then we must also work together with the countries concerned on this. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u10	The status of autonomous countries within the Kingdom has been chosen. This means that there is a guarantee function which can enter into force if there is a very urgent reason to do so. As I said, the Curaçao Public Prosecutor's Office has acted adequately in a number of cases where there were suspicions and later also convictions for corruption. Political relations are such that it is primarily up to the countries themselves to ensure that elections are conducted in an orderly manner and that democracy and the rule of law function in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
