ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. Your home is the most important place on earth, the place where you wake up in the morning, where you eat with your family at night, where you can watch a game of clover jacket or TV on Saturday. That place must be safe and enjoyable and in a safe environment. You should be able to go home by bike or tram at night, noise pollution should be an exception and crime should be minimal. With these eyes, the VVD looks at living, and also at this amendment of the Rotterdam Act, or better: the Special Measures Act metropolitan problem. We have a few dozen neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where the climate is downright bad. It's not about the one neighbor who gets drunk or puts his music too loud. In an average residential area there is sufficient resilience to accommodate and correct that. No, I'm talking about neighborhoods where for 50 years nuisance has been stacked and where small and large crime is the order of the day, places that work like a magnet on vandals. In those neighborhoods, willing, hard-working people suffer from the nuisance of some troublemakers. For a long time we have referred to these neighbourhoods as "focused neighbourhoods," "Vogelaarwijken," "beautiful neighbourhoods" and "power neighbourhoods." Every year almost €400 per inhabitant was extra spent on all beautiful ideas. You can find all kinds of things about it.The VVD might do that too.But the good news is that through the reviews of the policy in 2009, 2011 and 2013 we know quite exactly what works and what doesn't work. Most social investments in sports fields and community centers and benefits in education do not have a positive impact on the quality of life. New construction, sale of social housing and renovation have a positive effect, as well as maintenance and maintenance. Clean, whole and safe: a clean environment, well maintained houses and safe neighborhoods. In this context, in recent years, we have adopted a series of laws that allow the municipal administration to keep their neighbourhoods clean, whole and safe, such as the Bibob Act, the Opium Act, the Rotterdam Act, adaptations of the Housing Act and the Housing Act. These laws are mainly aimed at the few neighbourhoods in the Netherlands in which it is not yet done. The municipality can now tackle cottage milkers, appeal to troublemakers, fight foul play and prevent migrant workers without perspective. A logical power is still lacking, namely to stop real troublemakers and criminals in advance. We're not talking about people with a bunny on their résumé, we're talking about real asos with a criminal record that in no way contribute to the environment in which they live. We are discussing the proposal for that power today. I am quite right to say that we will support this proposal. We do not want the problem areas to continue to be ruined. The Netherlands doesn't have ghettos like other countries do. We have to keep doing our best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u3	The spokesperson of the VVD Group rightly points out that people who cause problems must be addressed. However, with this bill, these people are spread across the country. These people and their problems are not addressed, they are spread out. Why doesn't the VVD choose to tackle the problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u4	For everyone in the Netherlands we can find a place, but it's about pulling the sting out of problem areas. When you put these people together, they strengthen each other's behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u5	Then you don't strengthen that behavior, but you do spread the problems across the country. Now there are a few neighborhoods where there are problems and many people suffer from them, but the whole of the Netherlands will suffer from these problems. Why doesn't the cabinet have a neighbourhood policy? Only 0.2% of the previous cabinet's budget is spent on neighbourhood policy. Why doesn't the cabinet do anything about the problems themselves? Why doesn't the Cabinet investigate what's wrong with these people, what problems they have and how we can deal with them instead of spreading the problems across the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u6	I say the following about the spread of problems. Ordinary residential areas are strong and resilient enough to keep these kinds of people clean. That's not where the problem is. If I may pour it into Easter trees: one aso is not an aso, two aso's is a problem, three aso's is a problem. So I do prefer that they be spread out. All this does not mean that the VVD, as a liberal party, feels lightly about the fundamental rights at stake here. We must realise that this bill infringes privacy. It is also a serious violation of the freedom of establishment. These are core values for which the VVD stands, but my group does not have to think for long when it has to consider a viable neighbourhood, in which people can develop and be happy, and on the other hand the right of freedom of establishment for people with a criminal past. This bill respects all principles. The current string policy, whereby eighteen municipalities carry out a screening at their own discretion and without a legal basis, is banned. As a result, privacy is more or less managed. Moreover, the legal possibilities of objection and appeal are neatly regulated. There is also the point of proportionality, or in plain Dutch: do we shoot a mosquito here with a cannon? Proportionality is monitored by the fact that a municipality can only screen with the Minister's permission. The municipality is then obliged to make a careful assessment. Not every crime in every neighborhood leads to rejection. Is the VVD completely satisfied? We still have a few questions. The first question concerns the designation of Rotterdamwetgebied. That's a lengthy procedure. I understand that this must be done carefully, but can this be done more quickly, especially if municipalities have a problem? Can we do it in two weeks, for example? Question two is about the flow rate of the screening. We've set it to eight weeks now. I understand that from the procedure of asking for an explanation of the behaviour, a vog, but from the landlord's perspective that means two months of vacancy. Especially in a problem area you can't get out of your way with that. How does the Minister see this? Can we bring that back to a month or a week? Who would have to pay for the damage if it took longer? Thirdly, how do we screen people coming from outside the Netherlands? These people are not registered, while in the Netherlands we have examples of people who have committed serious crimes in their country of origin. My fourth question concerns the two routes from which the municipality can choose: a police screening and the request for an explanation of behaviour. But why don't we just combine that? How do we deal with AIVD information, which may or may not be known to the mayor? If we're gonna dive in, why are we only looking back four years? I understand that for minor offences, but don't we miss the really serious crime? This bill isn't going to get us there yet. My colleague, Ockje Tellegen, has tabled an initiative proposal on housing nuisance, better known as the "aso-law" with which we can give concrete instructions on behaviour. If we've also dealt with that bill, we've filled the mayor and alderman's toolbox well. In the end, they're the ones who have to take care of it for us. We wish them much strength and success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u7	Mr Van der Linde asks a number of good, critical questions. For me, those would be a good reason to look at this bill again. However, what the Minister is doing now is extending the former Rotterdam Act. This law has been recently reviewed. I've got that evaluation right here. What is the conclusion of the investigation? The conclusion of the UvA researchers is that the viability and safety in these neighbourhoods have not been demonstrably improved since the introduction of the Rotterdam Act. Why would it work now? What's the difference now? What does the minister do other than what he's done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u8	You have the UvA investigation there. We also got the investigation into the police screening. This shows that 15 municipalities later turned out to be 18, in my opinion, all of them doing so in their own way. That can be improved, and we are going to take care of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u9	Eighteen municipalities do it now with screening, but many more municipalities can tackle the problems without police screening. Now the screening of these eighteen municipalities is being legalized, but this was not an answer to my question. The Rotterdam Act has been adopted and has been in force for ten years, but researchers conclude that the Rotterdam Act does not work. Instead of trying something else, we're gonna do the same thing again. What are we doing different than before and why would it work now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u10	I have based myself on two analyses by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the 2009 study by the Minister of Economic Affairs on social investment, the softer components of such a neighbourhood approach. We're sure they don't work. The same studies also show that "clean, whole and safe" contributes to the development of these neighbourhoods. That road has been taken and we would like to continue along that road. Of course we don't have all the components of the Rotterdam Act complete yet. So let's do it quickly. I would very much like to take up the challenge with you. As far as I'm concerned, we're going to re-evaluate this in a few years. Let me give you a note that will produce good results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u11	Mr. Chairman. In your house, you want to feel safe and be able to unwind. That pleasure of living needs to be protected. Trouble and criminal activity can be terribly disruptive and disruptive. Therefore, municipalities and housing corporations should have opportunities to tackle nuisances. The cabinet therefore wants to amend the Rotterdam Act to prevent nuisances from the neighbourhoods. That's a simple, easy solution. For example, troublemakers are spread throughout the city and across the Netherlands. Of course, you could do it differently. Of course, you can tackle problems instead of spreading them. That's what neighborhood policy is for. The Netherlands and in particular certain neighbourhoods need a structural and sustainable neighbourhood policy. So this should not be about plans for four years, but about a long-term vision involving residents. That is not what the cabinet chooses for, because the cabinet wants to give municipalities more tasks with less money. I am referring specifically to four points. First of all, I am referring to sufficient resources for adequate community support and for sufficient ears and eyes in the neighbourhood, for example by district agents and community masters. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De twee kabinetten-Rutte hebben elk wijkenbeleid opzijgezet, op Rotterdam-Zuid na.]] It's issued 500 times less by this cabinet. So that's 0.2%. Everywhere the plug has been pulled, while there is a need for coherence. If there's any trouble in the neighborhood, the neighborhood manager's gonna have to go down there. Problems need to be discussed and addressed. The cause must be removed. When will this cabinet again opt for prevention instead of repression? In collaboration with local residents, professionals and municipalities, much is possible. There are many examples of this in the country. For example, give residents local rights. By that I mean: more control over one's own environment. Let residents participate and think along in the neighbourhood, for example when developing a playground or programming a community center. With neighbourhood rights, more district agents and housekeepers, the quality of life and safety are really improved. What does the Minister think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u12	What budget is Mr Bashir thinking of for these fine plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u13	Enough budget. If there's any trouble in the neighborhood that's bothering people, you're gonna have to deal with it. Now problems are on the verge of being spread by the country. More people are gonna get hurt. You're right. You're gonna need money for that. Two Cabinets ago, money was still allocated for this. I suggest we do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u14	That's not what I asked. We're talking about the use of scarce tax dollars in this house. If you need money, you must indicate how much, what you are not going to do and where you are going to get it from.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u15	I am not going to risk concrete amounts. If the willingness is expressed to pursue neighbourhood policy again, I would like to consider how much money is needed, how it should be financed and how we are going to do it. At the moment, however, there is no willingness to do so. Everywhere the plug is pulled. At present 0.2% of the budget of a number of Cabinets ago is earmarked for neighbourhood policy. There's no more investment. There's got to be money. I do have a number of posts where it can come from. Think about the landlord's tax. You can get it from the millionaire tax. You can also look at the mortgage interest deduction. If there's that willingness, we can do something about it. Secondly, I am referring to building and investing in mixed neighbourhoods. I mention the landlord's tax again. It needs to be deleted so that investment can be made. When is the Minister going to take care of that? When is he going to invest in good, fun and safe neighborhoods for everyone? The third point is the fight against division. How should children later live together, work together and form a society, if they now grow up separately? They don't meet at school and they don't see each other. How are they supposed to understand each other? Give municipalities the opportunity to spread people. Give municipalities through the Housing Act the possibility to steer on viability and socio-economic characteristics. Make sure that people go to school mixed together, that mixed buildings are built and that neighborhoods are inhabited mixed. Fourth. Have faith in the police and the justice system. If you do something wrong as a child in the Netherlands, you will be punished by your parents or by the teacher at school. If you do something wrong as an adult, the judge will punish you. That's what we agreed on. Criminals must be dealt with by police and justice. During their punishment and after that they must be accompanied to find a place in society in a good way. But why does the cabinet make it possible for municipalities to punish or even double-punish property seekers? Is it the cuts on the police that forced 2,000 officers to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u16	I had to remember it for a long time, but I'm trying to understand Mr Bashir's previous passage. He says he's in favour of mixed neighborhoods. At that point, he'll get me on his side immediately. With this law, we ensure that there is no accumulation of misery and that the people who suffer from this accumulation of misery are protected from extra misery. On the contrary, we want to prevent one dimensional neighborhoods from developing and expanding. That's exactly what you're advocating. Therefore, I do not understand your objection to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u17	I was talking about viability and socio-economic characteristics. This bill is about criminals. I'm talking about growing up together, building mixed up, living together and going to school together. This bill deals with the spread of criminals throughout the Netherlands, so that it affects everyone. I'm talking about dealing with problems, fighting them and putting on neighbourhood prevention and the neighborhood cop. I want someone from the neighborhood to know if there's any trouble, think about drinking or drug problems. That person can then look at what is going on, for example a gambling problem, and he can talk to people to deal with the problems and solve them. In this bill, it's only about spreading problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u18	Then I'm not gonna keep comprehending it. What Mr Bashir wants, so does the Labour Party. But you're actually saying you're in favour of the concentration of that misery, because you're not in favour of its spread. So if there are a lot of people living somewhere with a drinking problem or with criminal backgrounds, you say: let the next one live there, because then it gets better because we don't spread it. You say that with so many words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u19	Would you like to speak through the chairman? 'Cause I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u20	The previous speaker, Mr Van der Linde, said that there have been problems in some neighbourhoods for 50 years, that they accumulate and are not being tackled. Why aren't these problems being dealt with? Because there's no neighborhood policy. There's hardly any money for living and there's hardly any money to deal with the problems. 2,000 district agents have been cut off. Yeah, that's right. There's trouble, and they're stacking up. Instead of tackling these problems by making money available to deal with neighbourhoods, people are now going to spread these problems all over the Netherlands so that everyone suffers from them. That's not the approach I choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u21	I'm having a bit of a problem with this. The common thread in Mr Bashir's story is that he wants to make neighborhoods more cozy, more beautiful and more liveable. He speaks to the minister because he thinks he should take care of that. All these municipalities are working hard to make the business more liveable in their neighbourhoods. The past has shown that they need tools to keep these neighborhoods habitable. What is wrong with giving the local administration tools to achieve what Mr Bashir wants? That, I believe, is the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u22	At the moment, there are 18 municipalities that are already screening on the basis of the possibility that this bill will create, while the law does not yet make that possible. They're screening on the basis of police records. This happens in 18 municipalities. In some of these 18 municipalities, there have already been evaluations of how effective that is. This shows that there aren't a lot of troublemakers. It's just a few people, while at the same time it's a major breach of everyone's privacy. After all, everyone's police records must be provided. That's one. Two. We have had the evaluation of the Rotterdam Act. What's in it? It says in that evaluation that it has not been proven to have contributed to liveable neighbourhoods. My conclusion is that we have tried the same thing for ten years, so let us do it differently now. Let us now use prevention instead of repression. Well, then you're going to District Prevention. If there's a problem, the people in the neighborhood have to go down there. You have to look at what's going on and deal with the problems. That's different than spreading people around the country, because then those people still keep their problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u23	I hear the reaction of the SP. If I listen carefully, Mr Bashir says that there is no point in putting down the bill in this way. I do not think that the legislative proposal before us is the solution, but it is part of a solution. That this will not be a solution for the total spectrum, I agree with Mr Bashir, but it is an explicit tool in the toolbox of the municipal authorities. Wherever this works, they could use this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u24	But then Mr Ronnes says: yes, I am in favour of this bill, provided that more happens, namely that more things are picked up and more tools are put in the toolbox of the minister and the municipality. But I don't see that. I see that there is only 0.2% of the neighbourhood policy budget left. The rest have been cut off. I see there's been cuts on the police. I see cuts in the ggz institutions. All I see is cuts and this bill too. I would say: show the other measures that Mr Ronnes is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u25	Mr President, may I comment briefly on this? I believe that this proposal does not block us talking about other good proposals, if there are any. If people have ideas about that, we can just talk about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u26	I find Mr Bashir's story a bit difficult. He advocates a neighbourhood approach and pretends that we haven't had for years a policy of neighbourhoods of attention, beautiful neighbourhoods and birdwatching areas, at the time warmly supported by the SP. Each analysis has shown that this policy has done nothing for the quality of life. What does Mr Bashir want new? What didn't we have before?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u27	I just mentioned four points. I'd be happy to list them again. Is that all right with you, Mr. Chairman? Okay, then I'll just start over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u28	Well, not quite at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u29	I will help Mr Bashir a little bit. I thought this was all part of the policy for the birder neighborhoods. There's nothing else there, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u30	No, that's the problem. Vogelaar's policy has not been completely completed. It started with a lack of budget. I was on the parliamentary committee of inquiry into housing corporations, which concluded that, although money had been allocated, it was not made entirely available by stupidities such as miscalculations. So Mrs Vogelaar had to use much of her time to go after the money she was promised but not given in the end. Then there was hardly time to implement this policy, because then came the next cabinet, which has put a stop to neighbourhood policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u31	We'll share that with each other, but those analyses were from a long time ago. They were from 2009, 2011 and 2013. Also with the money that was there, nothing happened. If Mr Bashir cannot indicate what costs he has in mind, I find it difficult to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u32	I would like to mention amounts, but I do not know whether that is effective in this debate. We are still talking about fictitious amounts, which are not being allocated because the VVD only chooses to spread problems instead of tackling them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u33	I feel that it could contribute to the debate, but that is just a feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u34	I will leave it in the middle in this case, but if I have to mention an amount, I would say 20% or 10% of the landlord's tax. Use that to conduct neighbourhood policy, as a start.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u35	The VVD is not automatically in favour of this, but I can hear Mr Bashir now saying that he wants to maintain the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u36	No, I'm not saying that. I want to convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation. You can indeed use part of the proceeds to conduct neighbourhood policy. Otherwise, of course, we have the mortgage interest deduction, the millionaire tax and the frigates that should not be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u37	I wrote down that landlord's tax for you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u38	I was talking about the cuts, because they fall down hard in our neighborhoods. For example, millions of savings have been made on the ggz. A third of the beds have been removed. People with ggz disease are now forced to stay at home, even if they need treatment. Some are not only forced at home, but also on the train, in the shopping mall and in the neighborhoods. That's where they cause trouble. It is not surprising that some of these people cause nuisance to the locals, because they have a problem that needs to be addressed. This bill also seeks to prevent them from living in certain neighbourhoods. That can't be true, can it? These people have a problem. Take that first and reverse the cuts on the ggz. I'd like a response from the Minister. The forerunner of this bill is the Rotterdam Act. People with low incomes can be excluded from some areas. It was intended to bring a sustainable improvement in living standards in some neighbourhoods. Those are the words of the Minister himself. Has this sustainable improvement been achieved? No. An evaluation shows that the Rotterdam Act did not contribute to a demonstrable improvement of safety and viability in the designated neighbourhoods. It also appears that people who have been excluded from certain areas have moved into other poorer neighbourhoods. In these neighbourhoods, there has been a decline in the quality of life and a new concentration of low-income people has emerged. In other words, the problems for which the Rotterdam Act was conceived have largely shifted. How does the Minister feel about this? Is the Rotterdam Act still a good tool for the cabinet to achieve the goal of viability and security? If so, when will the target be achieved? Ten years after the introduction of the law, it has still not been achieved. The Rotterdam Act is now being extended. The SP Group has always found the Rotterdam Act to be occasional legislation. Now the cabinet also wants to ward off people who cause trouble. Why doesn't the cabinet choose to improve the quality of life and security? Isn't this just another relocation of trouble? What other measures have been examined or considered to address these problems? Why didn't these other measures come to fruition in the end? What does the comprehensive Rotterdam law mean for the neighbourhoods and neighborhoods where the Rotterdam law does not apply? What does the extension mean for the neighbourhoods of Rotterdam, for Vlaardingen or Capelle aan den IJssel? Are they gonna get any more trouble? What does the extension of this bill mean for municipalities in the rest of the Netherlands? Are they gonna get any more trouble? What is the Minister's response to all the leaders in the country who are about to report to the Ministry and complain about people who were previously in a ggz institution or people who are just coming out of prison and are not adequately supervised? The municipality of Rotterdam is on the eve of a referendum on a controversial residential vision. The municipality wants to get rid of 20,000 cheap rentals. Moreover, Rotterdam wants to demolish thousands of homes. How does Rotterdam's controversial residential vision relate to the new Rotterdam Act? Where are people on low incomes going? Where do people with a psychiatric background who have ever caused nuisance go? Does the Minister have an answer to that? The Minister also violates the fundamental rights of tenants. If someone is denied the right to live somewhere, that is a major violation of the right of free establishment. Can this liberal minister explain why he is committing such an unliberal violation? Why does this cabinet deprive people of freedoms? I'm not alone in my comments. The Council of State is cutting this bill short. He writes that effectiveness has not been sufficiently demonstrated. Nor is he convinced of the need and proportionality of the use of police data for screening. According to the Council of State, the bill seriously infringes fundamental rights such as freedom of establishment, free movement of persons and respect for privacy. Then why did the cabinet make this proposal? This can't be happening, can it? The Human Rights College is also cutting off this bill. It rightly points out that the sharing of police data may also involve cases that have not led to criminal proceedings. Can the Minister answer that? Can a tenant also be prevented on the sole grounds of a notification or even on grounds of suspicion? Why is it not enough for the cabinet to provide just a vog? There are only 18 municipalities using police screening. So 380 don't use it. Still, it's not that bad. Isn't that true, or is it a disaster, according to the minister in those municipalities? Why doesn't the Cabinet choose to just let people with a criminal record fall under the law? Why didn't the cabinet specifically choose that? Can the Minister guarantee that this new Rotterdam Act will pass the test of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms? This Minister has opted for an easy solution, namely the distribution of problems. I know this minister can do more. I also know that this Minister can really tackle the problems himself. I would therefore ask him to do more. Take care of people's problems. Address the causes of the problems. Don't spread them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u39	I am somewhat surprised by the negative attitude of the SP to this law. For example, we receive signals from the municipality of Nijmegen, where I think the SP has been in the college of B and W since 2002. Police screening was introduced at the time under the leadership of the SP. So this has been happening for fourteen years and quite recently new agreements have been concluded to continue with it. Apparently, in Nijmegen, it's a success to apply this. So I do not understand very well: does Mr Bashir from his constituency not hear any sounds that the law could be applied in a positive way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u40	I would ask Mr Ronnes to sit in the city council of Nijmegen and have this debate with directors there. They have made their own assessment. I don't know any more details about this either. I cannot be called upon to do so either because I am solely responsible for my own actions. I have examined and studied this bill and I came to the conclusion, also thanks to the multiple evaluations I referred to earlier, that this bill merely spreads the problems rather than addressing them. Those people aren't a problem, but they have a problem. Those people have a reason for their problems. Neighborhood prevention and the police officer need to follow that up. These problems need to be addressed. Then you can ward people off and spread them, but then you haven't dealt with the problems yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u41	I had expected that the SP would also put its ear to the municipal authorities in which it is represented and which are themselves involved in that law in the workplace. So that's why my remarks in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u42	As far as the Acts are concerned, for the sake of completeness, I have asked our local people to respond to this bill in this Chamber. However, I have not heard from them what Mr Ronnes is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u43	As an ex-member of the Rotterdam Council, I would point out that there is a good reason that Rotterdam wants to spread people. This is because Rotterdam is the city where most of the multicultural problems have arisen, where many non-Western immigrants have been drawn, with all the problems that have arisen, such as poverty, unemployment and integration problems. There are neighbourhoods in Rotterdam where more than half of the people are immigrants, many of whom have an Islamic background. Those problems are coming together over there. So you can't blame Rotterdam for wanting to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u44	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u45	In that sense I agree with the SP that distribution alone doesn't make sense, but you have to mop up with the crane closed instead of with the tap open. The SP has a very big mouth about Rotterdam, about that city not doing well, but the SP refuses to name the cause of the problem and that is mass immigration. I never hear the SP about that. Mr Bashir may have a big mouth here saying that Rotterdam and all the other cities facing these problems are not doing well, but my question is where the SP remains when it comes to removing the cause. Why can't I hear the SP on immigration restrictions and stopping the constant influx of people from non-Western immigrants with huge delays.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u46	Try to do the interruptions a little bit shorter. The core is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u47	Mr Madlener, of course, is re-emerging from the mass immigration and the problems that are being caused. I would ask him to respond to what is proposed in this bill and to propose his own solutions. I don't hear that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u48	I have already said that I agree with a number of things that the SP points out here, namely that spreading does not make sense in itself and that you have to deal with it. However, the SP forgets that if you do that, but at the same time you continue the SP's open border policy, you'll make sure that backlogs are reimported. This is happening at the moment; the immigration records are being broken again. Those aren't Canadian dentists, they're people who don't speak the language, who can't calculate and write. The SP completely abandons the people and comes here with a big mouth telling them that the cities are not doing well. I would say: SP, finally go and record for the people in the neighbourhoods who are suffering from the new wave of immigration, which you do not want to do anything about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u49	I remember a parliamentary debate a few weeks ago, where the decision was made to bomb in Syria as well. Who voted for it? That was the party of Mr Madlener, the PVV. He voted for the bombing of Syria. If you do that, then there will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u50	Mr Bashir, I have the impression that this is a little out of the order of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u51	I'll tell you why there are migratory waves, Mr. Chairman. They start when you go to war. If the PVV votes in favour, refugee flows will arise. Then you can say that you want to stop it, but also there: take the cause instead of being the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u52	For the sake of completeness, I would like to point out that this is a question of amending the Special Measures Act and not of the Article 100 procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u53	I also wanted to get back to the core of that law, Mr. Chairman. We do not have to discuss the differences between the SP and the Labour Party and the need for more attention to be paid to areas where it is not entirely crescendo. These include the people who have been confronted for years with nuisance, nuisance from criminal people, but also from people who are mentally disturbed, who cause noise and so on. Mr Bashir is making a statement here this evening that these people must face even more of those people. Mr Bashir does not want to protect them from any more such cases. That's what tonight's about. Are we going to protect those people who've been in shit for years or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u54	I'm in favour of protection, but then you're gonna have to use neighborhood prevention and send the neighborhood cop out there and not spread the trouble. Moreover, Mr De Vries forgets to add a small point. All the people who already have problems in those neighbourhoods have nothing to do with this bill. This is only about the screening of new cases. If new people want to come, they will be screened, but all existing problems remain. Neighborhood prevention is not used, the district agents are not sent. The problems will only affect more people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u55	We all agree with Mr Bashir. We also believe that people who cause nuisance should be dealt with. Let me ask you a concrete question. Does the SP allow voters who have been in the shit for years to face even more people who cause nuisance, in any way? That's what this bill is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u56	Mr De Vries used English words, President. I don't know if that's okay. Perhaps you could translate them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u57	You see that Mr Elias is not chairing, so I will just allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u58	Then I'm fine with it, Mr. Chairman. No, I'm not abandoning these people. I suggested what I proposed. We need money for neighbourhood policy. I can't make it prettier than it is. We have tried for ten years now with the Rotterdam Act. Sorry, it's not working. I'm not saying that; that's what the researchers conclude. Now we have to do it differently. Now we have to tackle the problems instead of spreading them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u59	Mr. Chairman. I have not spoken today, so I would first like to express my disgust at the attacks in Brussels. I would like to express my condolences to all the victims, the wounded, the family and the friends of the deceased. This touches us all very deeply. It is therefore uncomfortable to talk about dealing with nuisance and crime on the day of these terrible attacks in Brussels, while the excesses of the Islamic multicultural society are increasing. Trouble is sometimes the beginning of much worse. It seems increasingly easy to degenerate into gross violence and terror, fueled by a deep hatred of the western way of life. This debate is about nuisance and crime in relation to the viability of neighbourhoods. Our society is becoming increasingly disrupted by the changing population composition resulting from an open border policy and mass immigration by non-Western immigrants. The absorption capacity of our country to absorb these immigrants has long been exceeded. The ambition of many newcomers to become truly Western or become Dutch, to assimilate and make something of your life, is often far to be desired. No, a benefit, a mosque and sticking around in your own language and poverty culture is often the result. This imported poverty comes together in old urban areas, leading to ghetto formation. The poor neighbourhoods are the first to fall under the negative spiral of poverty, hopelessness, aggression, drugs and negativity. This process of degeneration and hardening of our society has been going on since the 1980s and 1990s. Pim Fortuyn has written countless books about it. But if I look at what is happening now, then the Netherlands still hasn't learned anything. Politics is still refusing to mention that the continued mass immigration of non-western cultures in general and Islamic cultures in particular is leading to enormous problems. Our country will perish, our neighborhoods will perish, and eventually our civilization will perish. What became the first visible in Rotterdam's disadvantaged neighbourhoods in the eighties and nineties, today you see more and more medium-sized cities. More and more neighbourhoods in the Netherlands are decaying and becoming unsafe. The Netherlands is starting to look more and more like a large disadvantaged area, or a bird-aarwijk, as we called it a few years ago. It makes no sense to mop with the crane open, said prof. Pim Fortuyn years ago. Now look around you. This law systematically tries to ward off harassers from some neighborhoods, but with that you spread the problem. Good neighborhoods get more problems and become problem neighbourhoods. This is a short-term solution which will not prove effective in the end. The PVV wants real solutions to combat degradation, nuisance and crime in our country. They must all be realized in order to reverse the tide and not just this law. This is only part of the solution. Let me briefly outline what the PVV proposes as real solutions: 1. Close the borders for non-Western immigrants. That is what all parties, except the PVV, keep forgetting here: there is no point mopping with the crane open. 2. Put out double-national criminal nuisances. Back to your country if you don't like it here. 3. Stricter penalties and better enforcement of crime and nuisance. The culture of tolerance really can't be anymore, especially in these neighborhoods. 4. Crazy addicts or confused people need to be better catered for in institutions. They're running too much on the street right now, and they're also bothering you. There's just a point the SP has a point. 5. Systematic nuisances, which this law specifically deals with, should not be spread over the city or to neighbouring municipalities, but should be collected in special rigging villages. Only when the troublemakers have proven that they can live without causing nuisance can they return to a normal home. This law provides municipalities with a legal basis for excluding people or families from certain areas, but does not regulate where to go. The PVV considers this to be half a measure, because it is not a long-term solution. The spreading of immigrants, poor people or nuisance victims is not a structural solution, but it saddles neighboring municipalities or neighboring neighbourhoods with the problems. It is an emergency measure which, in the short term, will combat ghetto formation in one place but will eventually make more and more areas a problem area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u60	I hear Mr Madlener singing from the permanent song collection of the PVV. We get quite a few figures from this minister, including the State of the Housing Market. In my opinion, the general trend is that the number of bad neighbourhoods in the Netherlands has fallen dramatically over the past five years. Can Mr Madlener reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u61	Of course, it's just how you look at it, what a bad neighborhood is. When I look at Rotterdam's problems, I see that they were huge and still huge. Children grow up in neighbourhoods where girls from 16 bus drivers rob and stab with a knife and where there's serious crime, with fights so cruel that you think: how is it possible that this is happening? People grow up in neighbourhoods where hardly any Dutch is spoken and where hardly any more good lessons are taught in schools. Then I think to myself, this isn't what we want, is it? If the VVD says it's not that bad and that things are going well in the Netherlands, then I think: come from Wassenaar and have a look in the country. Because, unfortunately, as Mr Van der Linde suggests, it is not the reality for many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u62	I was born in Rotterdam-Zuid, so I have some right to speak. Anyway, let's not talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u63	And soon left, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u64	Well, not even. No, I've had a great time there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u65	Had.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u66	But that's not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u67	There are cheap houses for sale, so you can move back there in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u68	Mr Madlener, would you please let Mr Van der Linde ask his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u69	We find each other completely in the fight against crime. This does not alter the perception that the number of bad neighbourhoods has fallen. What I hear Mr Madlener say is that we do not want ghettos, so we are going to make rigs. That sounds to me like creating new ghettos. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u70	First of all, what you see is that Rotterdam-South is now fantastic. Rotterdam-Zuid is precisely an area where there are enormous problems, arising from the multicultural society you are responsible for. The VVD is currently responsible for the immigration records. First of all, I want to say that. Secondly, Rotterdam itself has the desire not to spread these people, but to place them in special homes. You don't want those people next to you either. You will not get these problems next to you, because you probably live somewhere in a beautiful house, not in Rotterdam-Zuid. Those people in Rotterdam-Zuid don't want those people either. What are you supposed to do? You shouldn't just say you can't live here. But you should also say: go live there in one of those dumpster houses. This cabinet has indicated that it can build 100,000 homes for all kinds of asylum seekers. I will say: let's put those asos in those container houses and not those asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u71	I know that Mr Madlener's friends are in charge in Rotterdam, namely Leefbaar Rotterdam. From Rotterdam, I believe we have strong support for this tightening up of the Rotterdam Act. So I can't put it together for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u72	Rotterdam is not only in favour of this Rotterdam Act. Rotterdam also says: we want to point out special houses where these kinds of asos are going. Then you'll have a piece of legislation that's final. You don't just have to say: troublemakers, go live somewhere else. Then they're bothering you there and you're just spreading the trouble. Then get them escorted to a dumpster house. Then they can't go back to an ordinary house until they've learned it. All that makes no sense if you leave the boundaries open, as the VVD is doing now. Then, of course, we will import new poverty and backwardness again. We absolutely don't want that. That's not a solution. The VVD supports this law as part of a solution, but forget to close the crane when mopping. That is, of course, stupid VVD policy. The PVV doesn't just want to spread nuisances. We want to make the approach of troublemakers final by offering alternative housing in rigging villages, skaeve huse, as they are called in Denmark, or aso housing. Is the Minister prepared to settle this with the municipalities and always make this part of the approach? Is the Minister prepared to deal with a municipality that considers that someone is not fit to live in an ordinary neighborhood because of serious nuisances that are criminally difficult to deal with? I am not even talking about criminals, because they should say in prison: fine, put him out of the house, but not among other people? Unless it's next to Mr. Van der Linde, of course. It's okay there. Just place them in a container village, as the minister tells them to build them for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u73	Mr Madlener has embraced a number of SP proposals. He said the SP made good proposals. Before Rutte I arrived, nearly 1 billion was spent on neighbourhood policy. There's nothing left of that now. The PVV had the opportunity to make something beautiful out of it, but it's all cut off. My question to Mr Madlener is therefore: why are you in favour of neighbourhood policy? You've been helping to tear it down completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u74	We are not at all in favour of the neighbourhood policy advocated by the SP. We don't believe you're gonna spend some money handing out presents on this kind of nuisance. What I am in favour of is closing the borders. The SP doesn't want that, and the VVD doesn't. That's number one. Secondly, criminal nuisances belong in prison and not in the neighborhood. We want to be tough on criminals. That's also something I never hear the SP say. The SP is always for pamping and distributing benefits. Thirdly, I agree with Mr Bashir when he says that spreading does not help. That is also my argument. It's not gonna help just spread out. You have to deal with it. The austerity in mental health care therefore leads to additional problems. We see that in public transport, we see that by the number of people wandering the streets. They're all troublemakers we don't want. That is where Mr Bashir has a point: the cuts in care are also a source of annoyance for us. But for the rest, the SP completely fails to address the problem areas in a truly working way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u75	The PVV made a number of proposals, including: close borders. Well, that's what cops are for. It costs money. The PVV wants to tackle the problems in the neighbourhoods. You're gonna need cops for that, too. It costs money, too. For neighbourhood policy, EUR 1 billion was available. Partly thanks to the PVV there is nothing left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u76	The money for the birdwatching policy that Mr Bashir is now referring to did not go to border surveillance. All that went to playgrounds and some refurbishing in the neighborhood. It was often just wasted money. So we should not do that. I have clearly explained what we stand for here. That's where the SP is failing, and that's where the SP abandons the people who live in those weak neighborhoods. And that's how we've known the SP for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u77	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party believes that everyone is entitled to a good home in a nice street and in a safe neighborhood. If this is threatened by nuisance caused by other people, we believe that a firm approach is justified. Unfortunately, there are also neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where the quality of life is seriously under pressure due to nuisance, intimidation, discrimination and crime. Those are neighborhoods where kids can't grow up safe. In those neighbourhoods, targeted and proven effective commitment is needed to restore viability. We are on the side of the inhabitants who want to work on a safe and pleasant living environment, especially if they have been waiting a long time for it. We want to remove the powerlessness of residents and government against a debilitating, unsafe and intimidating environment. Many instruments are available to restore viability. In our view, the present amendment of the law can be a good and effective complement to this, but it can only be used as an ultimatum remedium and requires the necessary care. Selective allocation of homes and screening of property seekers are very far-reaching instruments. Is it the case that the 18 municipalities that have been screening housing for years without a legal basis now have to work entirely in line with this law? Why haven't these 18 municipalities been dealt with before because they did something that the law didn't cover? Indeed, it is important that there are good rules for municipalities when they submit a request to the Minister to designate areas for the screening of property seekers. They must then clearly demonstrate that this medicine is really needed to prevent further increases in viability problems. Furthermore, as far as we are concerned, a condition must be that the municipality consults with tenants and landlords prior to the application. Why is that obligation not included in the law? Can it still be included in the ministerial arrangement? Can the Minister undertake to do so? We believe that the Minister should also include in his assessment of an application whether the municipality has sufficiently demonstrated that all other existing instruments have been used effectively. For example, I would like to mention measures to close or limit the number of such businesses, and measures to provide assistance to incumbent tenants who cause serious nuisance and, in cases where this does not work, to remove them. I am also thinking of taking all the measures to deal with drug nuisance and to have an image of where fireplaces have or may have been radicalised, and of measures to write down property owners if they seriously neglect their property. In short, the municipality must have shown that it has done everything that is conceivable. Can the Minister promise that he will assess applications on this? Furthermore, we consider it important for municipalities to demonstrate that the application of selective housing allocation is part of a comprehensive approach to the neighbourhood concerned, a comprehensive approach to soft and harsh measures and social and physical interventions. It should be a comprehensive approach that also focuses on improving the quality of education, care and provision and increasing job opportunities. It should be an approach that provides guidance to people who, due to psychiatric problems, cause problems and support to the homeless and confused persons, and an approach that ensures that there are sufficient opportunities for ex-convicts and for people from an institution to return to their own homes. It must be an approach that ensures that people who are refused a housing permit have a reasonable chance of suitable housing elsewhere in the regional housing market, and an approach that ensures that they do not start to cause a new fireplace of nuisance. We also believe that it is important for the Minister to assess follow-up requests on the basis of a thorough evaluation, which shows that the measures have a demonstrable effect and that they will continue to contribute to the further enhancement of viability. We think it is a good choice for the Minister to use screening very carefully, for example in specific complexes or in a particular street where the hard core of the problem lies. We expect the Minister to review applications on an overall approach aimed at protecting the fundamental right of people to shape their private lives undisturbed both inside and outside the home. An important tool for strengthening the viability of vulnerable neighbourhoods was the neighbourhood approach. Unfortunately, by deleting the Investment Budget Urban Renewal, that instrument has disappeared. We are in favour of reconsidering this instrument. Is the Minister prepared to examine the possibilities of re-establishing a budget for urban renewal in the assessment of the landlord levy? On this point, my group is considering a motion. Despite our positive attitude to this bill, the Labour Party does make a number of comments. The first concerns the relationship with Articles 8 and 9 of the Act. This proposal to amend the law is aimed at preventing people who cause nuisance or have criminal behavior. These are people whose legitimate expectation is that they can endanger the undisturbed enjoyment of other residents, a risk that increases if the concentration of people with these characteristics becomes too high. Whether or not a person has a low income is very often outside the direct influence of the person concerned. In the opinion of the Labour Party, excluding these people is debatable. According to the evaluation study of the law carried out by the University of Amsterdam in 2014, no connection could be demonstrated with the quality of life of the neighborhood. We wonder whether the introduction of the targeted screening option envisaged in the legislative proposal should not mean that the existing, much less targeted, ground for refusal in Article 8 could be deleted. If the link cannot be proved, is there really no ground for refusing a housing permit? Is the Minister prepared to remove this debatable shot with hail from the law, now that this bill provides an instrument that can be much more targeted? If not, will he undertake to reconsider Article 8 if the next evaluation still fails to establish the link between the cause of nuisance on the one hand and low income and/or employment on the other? In any case, is it not much more elegant not to work with refusal titles based on socio-economic characteristics, but instead with Article 9 of this law, by giving priority to households who can contribute to a greater diversity of the neighbourhood concerned, the street concerned or the complex concerned? Can the Minister give his views on this? The second comment we wish to make is that according to the bill, information from police files will be provided to the College of Mayors and aldermen. The Labour Party wonders why the mayor has not been elected as an administrative body, as well as when providing other confidential information and privacy sensitive matters. This means that confidential information remains in a much smaller circle. We are considering tabling an amendment on this point. A third comment concerns the duration of the procedures, as Mr van der Linde has already mentioned. The law says "a maximum of eight weeks." This can increase the duration of vacant positions, and thus the scarcity of living space and the loss of income for the landlord. Why not opt for a shorter period, for example a week, with the possibility of extending for complex cases? On this point, too, we are considering tabling an amendment. A fourth comment concerns the provision and presentation of information from daily police records. Isn't that a big risk? Is there not a chance that people will be excluded on the basis of unproven reports? Because of the limited definition of the criteria, does there not exist the chance of arbitrariness? Are the police records reliable in all cases? Haven't those daily files been contaminated a lot? What happens to applicants for a housing permit who live or have lived abroad? When using the police files, are we not dealing with lengthy appeals and appeals procedures? In short, is it not wise to always follow the route of the explanation of behaviour? In addition, the question is whether it is reasonable that the cost of that statement should not be borne by the people who receive such a permit. Especially in large families, which we like to see living in such homes, this can be considerably increased and it comes on top of the deposit that has to be paid for the new home. Does the Minister think it is wrong, like the Labour Party, if the good people have to pay to keep the evil out? Our fifth comment is that the proposed screening measure will apply only to tenants and not to prospective buyers in the relevant complex, street or area. Can the Minister explain why this form of legal inequality has been chosen? Why don't buyers have to submit housing permits? Here too, we are considering an amendment. A sixth comment, actually more a final question, is how people who want to move in with a resident in the designated area, the designated street or the designated complex are doing. The harshness clause applies to family members, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, but what about people who have had a relationship and want to live together? We would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u78	Mr De Vries, you just said twice that you were considering tabling an amendment, but those amendments have already gone around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u79	That's it. Then my associate's working harder than I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u80	I have a question about the housing permit for residential properties. We talk about neighborhoods where there is a great lack of owners-inhabitants. You want them in those neighborhoods as much as you can. What good is it if we slow down those people with a housing permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u81	We do exactly what we do to the tenants. For example, if someone wants to buy a house with criminal money, we shouldn't want him to live there. Then he'll do the same thing as someone with a criminal background who wants to rent. I really don't understand why we make a distinction between tenants and buyers. Isn't everyone the same in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u82	Yeah, but you're putting a huge brake on properties in the system. That's where my problem is for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u83	No, I'm not. A buyer often makes the reservation of obtaining funding. In this case, he makes the reservation of obtaining a housing permit. I don't think that's very absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u84	Every now and then when we deal with a bill here, the Minister forgets to include an evaluation clause in the bill. Mr De Vries is therefore very keen and is tabling an amendment which states that an evaluation must be carried out. Now we have an evaluation of the Rotterdam Act and it shows that the law does not work. What does this mean for a great advocate of evaluations? What are we gonna do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u85	I have paid a great deal of attention to this in my speech. The Labour Party has serious doubts about grounds for refusal such as having a job or having a low income. If the next review again shows that Article 8 has no connection whatsoever with the increase or decrease in quality of life, we call for that article to be deleted from the law and for the emphasis to be placed on Article 9. With that article, you can make people feel positive in the neighborhood, people who can strengthen that neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u86	But the law doesn't work, according to the evaluation. This bill extends the law that doesn't work just to more target groups. Shouldn't we be doing something completely different?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u87	Now the law says we're going to refuse targeted people who cause notorious nuisance, exhibit criminal behavior, spread hatred or intimidate, if there are a lot of such people in a particular complex. The Labour Party is in favour of this, because we are on the side of the people who suffer from it. We want to save them from further misery. We also want the people who are already in that complex to be dealt with, but this measure is really needed to stop further accumulation of misery. So we believe in this change, but we question a part of the current law. We obviously agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u88	Is Mr De Vries of the PvdA aware that there is a relationship between the backwardness of neighbourhoods and the ethnic composition of the district? Is Mr De Vries aware of the connection that many non-Western immigrants make a district weak by definition?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u89	No, we see above all a link with people with low socio-economic status, people with few opportunities in this country, people who are discriminated against on a daily basis, being sidelined and separated by some parties. There are problems because those people don't get opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u90	So the PvdA sees no connection between non-Western immigrants and descent and here poorly integrate into society, the language not speaking etc. The PvdA doesn't see that. Now I understand why the PvdA is so anxious to bring all these people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u91	There are all kinds of plans to regulate this, but that is not what this debate was about. We see that people who have few opportunities often live in the weak neighbourhoods and that they are often people who are simply thrown away in our society by some parties in this Parliament, are not given opportunities and are characterised as inferior. That is why they do not have a chance, but there are people in the category that Mr Madlener is constantly showing people who are doing great in the Netherlands and who sometimes live in other neighbourhoods, in the neighbourhoods in which he, I and my colleagues live. That's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u92	Mr. Chairman. Since its introduction, the Rotterdam Act has created conflicting feelings. On the one hand, we see persistent problems in some neighbourhoods. Improving the quality of life is really important there. On the other hand, the freedom of people to live where they want us is worth a lot. The same dilemma, namely freedom of establishment versus living in the less-favoured areas, is playing a part in the legislative proposal we are discussing in this debate. There is also an additional aspect, namely the use of police data. They're very sensitive to privacy. Municipalities have no clean track record in dealing with such data. In addition, police records are not reviewed by a judge, which makes the use quite subjective. I have reservations about that part of the bill in particular. I also have the necessary questions for the Minister. I also note, however, that municipalities and housing corporations that are already working with this are finding it a useful tool. From a corporation from Nijmegen I heard the example of a neighborhood with many problems: hemp cultivation, pollution, nuisance. If the neighborhood used to want someone on the waiting list on number ten, the numbers one through nine were just bullied away. Car tires were punctured and rocks went through the windows. Now it is clear that the boyfriend of the residents does not get the house anyway, bullying away is pointless and manages to get the neighborhood ahead. If you want to improve the quality of life, isn't it much fairer to look at a past of criminal and nuisance behavior instead of income? That's one way of putting it. D66 therefore looks at this bill with varying feelings. That starts with the question: does it work? The Council of State is very critical of this. It points out that evaluations do not show that selective allocation really contributes to improving the quality of life. However, those directly concerned think so, but the nuisance figures do not show this. The evaluation carried out by the UVA also shows that the Rotterdam Act had no demonstrable effect on the viability of life. For example, nuisance can already be caused by people coming from outside the neighborhood and selective allocation does not help. I would therefore ask the Minister to make a detailed argument as to why this proposal would be effective. If the Minister is convinced of its effectiveness, has he considered removing allocation from the law on the basis of the nature of income or socio-economic data? I agree with what Mr De Vries said on this point, because in the end viability has more to do with the burden of living than with the number of benefits in the neighbourhood. Isn't both the nature of income and criminal behavior double-up? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. D66's greatest hesitation in the content of this law lies, as has been said, in the use of police data by municipalities. These data have not been verified by a judge and are often subjective. If someone often plays loud music, one neighbor can find that noise and call the police about it, while another neighbor might not find it a problem at all. If someone's police record says that their neighbors have complained a few times about noise, then that person can be refused a housing permit, while someone else who may be producing the same noise level but has never been complained about should get a permit. How does the Minister view this tension? How do these data come about? Is there a system in there? For example, if someone throws their garbage in the street, people can complain to the police, and then it's in a file. But people can also call the cleaning department or the housing corporation and then there's nothing in the police records at all. How is it ensured that nuisances are treated in the same way? There are guarantees in the law, such as the explanation by the police, the right to be heard and the possibility of a behavioral instruction, but is that strong enough to prevent people who are not affected by the nuisance from getting a housing permit? I'd like to get a reaction to that. According to the proposal, the police may only share data on residential nuisance or crime. On the one hand, I understand that, because it's about the nuisance in the neighborhood. But does that mean that you can actually get a residence permit if you've had a hemp plantation on an industrial site or have abused people a few times when going out, but that your permit can be refused if you've put the radio too loud at home a few times? The question is whether this is balanced. The police may also share only the information relevant to this law. I think that's right. This is also well defined in the proposal. We all know that the police have a lot of administration and little capacity. Who guarantees that the police won't send the entire file to the city just as easily? Is the Minister prepared to allow the Personal Data Authority to carry out a random investigation into this matter? The same applies to the handling of the file within the municipality. The law stipulates that officials who do not have access to the housing permit should not have access to the police records. On paper, that looks good and careful. In providing that data for Suwinet benefits, only 14% of municipalities complied with all privacy-sensitive information security standards two years ago. Strong pressure from the Chamber and Cabinet and an intensive investigation by all municipalities were needed to improve this. Will the Minister ask the Dutch Data Protection Authority to check municipalities for the handling of these police data? There is also a General Administrative Measure which lays down more rules on how municipalities should handle the data. I would appreciate it if that AMvB would first be presented to the Chamber. For example, it seems to me right to say that police data will be destroyed in the municipality once a final and irrevocable decision on the permit has been taken. Can the Minister promise that the AMvB can be discussed with the Chamber before he finally adopts it? A commitment is enough for me, but otherwise I will table an amendment to that effect. There is one element that I find so important that I do not want it to be in an AMvB, but I want it to be anchored in the law, namely that the municipalities can only use data to give a housing permit and that in no other way police data are suddenly used by a social district team or for any other purpose. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I have one specific question. The College of Mayors and aldermen decides on the housing permit. The College may delegate that to an official. That seems practical to me too. This is also well and clearly regulated in the legislative proposal. The law provides for the police chief to give an explanation to the police records. We have ten regional police chiefs in this country. How can this explain the data on individual cases? Can the Chief of Police delegate to a subordinate, as is also provided for by the College of Mayors and Aldermen? The law doesn't say anything about that, whereas such an explanation only gets value as, for example, the neighborhood agent who does, since he is known in the neighborhood and knows how it works in practice. How will this procedure work in practice? Can the Minister explain that? I have asked a number of questions: detailed, principled and practical. Ultimately, it's about improving the quality of life in the neighborhoods, but also that people aren't unduly affected by a law like this. I have a double feeling about this law, as with the Rotterdam Act. That will continue to be the case, regardless of whether we support the law, but I hope that the Minister can at least offer me comfort that the law will be effective and that it will be applied carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u93	Mr. Chairman. The CDA was and is strongly in favour of giving municipalities, together with the corporations, the tools to tackle problems in problem neighbourhoods. As a Member of Parliament, emails from citizens and municipal administrators regularly show me how important it is to achieve a good living and living environment in troubled neighbourhoods. It is therefore a good thing that the improvement of the Rotterdam Act is being discussed today. During the written consultation, the CDA Group was critical of the legislative proposal Amendment of the Special Measures Act metropolitan problems. We were strengthened in this by the criticism of the Council of State. The criticism and the questions focus, among other things, on proportionality and effectiveness and on not being properly guaranteed privacy of data subjects, especially in cases where police data screening is involved. Furthermore, the need to introduce this law must be clearly established, given that there are far-reaching measures which could seriously infringe the fundamental rights of freedom of establishment and respect for privacy. We also asked to demonstrate the need for an overview, including the nature, extent and severity of the nuisance and the places where it is experienced. In the note following the report, the Minister gives a comprehensive response, to a large extent satisfactory. There are still two questions left for us. How is the financial damage caused by tenants due to the longer vacant position handled? This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. Moreover, corporations not only suffer from tenanting, but also have to incur additional costs for the application of the law. Is it reasonable for them to be burdened with costs? Or can the procedure be speeded up? This has already been proposed by a number of other speakers and asked the Minister. Finally, I come to the letter on the bill recently sent by the College of Human Rights to the chairman of the House of Representatives. In the opinion and in the supplementary letter, the College mentions a number of concerns with regard to this legislative proposal. The College considers that the legislative proposal infringes the right of freedom of establishment and the right to privacy. That is a point we have already raised. These human rights are not absolute. There may be infringements, but they must be necessary and proportionate and have a good legal basis. This proposal is lacking, according to the College of Human Rights. How does the Minister deal with these comments? Has he been in contact with the college and, if so, has he been able to convince the college at the concerns it had? To sum up, the CDA Group believes that the legislative proposal is a good step towards reducing the nuisance in certain neighbourhoods. Corporations are calling for such measures. Municipalities are keen to have instruments that will enable them to intervene. The CDA would like to help them with that in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u94	Mr Ronnes just said in his speech, but also in the case of interruptions, that he sees this bill as a tool in the drivers' toolbox, but that more is needed to really tackle the problems. Can Mr Ronnes explain what proposals he had in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u95	Those are not proposals that need to be discussed here alone. These are mainly proposals with which local government, together with the parties that play a role in the housing of the people, among others the corporations, but also other stakeholders, look locally at how to move a neighbourhood towards a healthier situation, or as Mr Bashir has just said: a pleasant and a cozy district.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u96	Of course, you need money for that. I was just asked to make money available; I was pretended to be the Minister of Finance. You need money for that, including rich money. Is the CDA willing to support the SP in making money available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u97	The CDA wanted to use part of the landlord's tax in two budgets in succession for the investment capacity of the corporations. There was no majority in favour of this, but I think that we can certainly talk about this with the CDA in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u98	This brings to an end the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u99	I would point out to Members that it is after 10:00. The Minister still has to answer. I would therefore ask Members to moderate somewhat in the interruptions so that we can conclude this debate in a somewhat orderly and timely manner this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u100	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the great importance of being able to live safely and at the same time the difficult balance that a legislator has to make in terms of safe living was decided in the first words of both Mr Van der Linde and Mr Bashir. Later, they started to split up in their contributions, but they both started to realize how incredibly important it is for everyone that you are safe in your home, that you feel safe there and that you know you are supported by the government. That has also been the reason for me to table this bill. I realize that you always come at a difficult balance: in order to guarantee that fundamental right to a safe living environment, which is in fact a fundamental right, you must sometimes be able to restrict the fundamental rights of the nuisance, as Mr Koolmees and Mr De Vries pointed out in particular. Moreover, European treaties also offer this possibility of a balance of interests; I will deal with the questions raised by Mr Ronnes later on. So I recognize the tension that was expressed in all the contributions, but for me the most important thing is that the government should be on the side of the benevolent citizen and should reasonably protect him from the nuisance of the nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u101	Mr Madlener, you were not yet inside when I made a comment about the time and the interruptions. So you can interrupt, but if you had heard that remark, you might not have walked forward. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u102	As the Chamber of mine is used to, I will divide my answers into a number of chapters. The first chapter deals with questions on the wider theme of viability and experience to date with the Special Measures Law metropolitan problems. The second chapter deals with the way screening is handled. Then there will be a chapter on 'various' and I shall end by addressing the amendments that have been tabled. First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Bashir's question as to whether we should no longer focus on the issues of quality of life and safety; Mr De Vries agreed. The proposal is explicitly intended as a final piece of measures in terms of viability and safety. When reviewing an application from a municipality that test has not been passed on to the minister for nothing, it has been very consciously chosen not to place this procedure entirely in the hands of municipalities. Therefore, it will be very strongly examined whether other measures have been taken and whether these measures are being pursued. It is true that these will have to relate not only to safety, but also to viability. Mr Bashir specifically asked me how I felt about the use of housekeepers and district agents. I would like to reply: who can be against this? This must indeed be an integral part of the approach. We have, of course, had a separate discussion about the exact role of the caretaker. I agree with Mr Bashir that more is needed than the measures that make this law possible, and that there is a need for more action. Mr Bashir also asked what the effects of these measures would be for neighbouring municipalities. The reason why the review is being carried out by the Minister and a vision is also being asked of the province of Ottoman, the next-higher administrative layer, is precisely the consideration of the effects on municipalities in the surrounding area. Mr Bashir also specifically asked what I am doing with the lessons to date of the evaluation of the Special Measures Act metropolitan problems. Indeed, this evaluation does not show that there is a reduction in nuisance, as Mr Bashir rightly points out. The evaluation does show that there is an increase in the proportion of residents with income from work. That was also the purpose of that measure. After all, you don't want to create the image in a neighborhood that no father or mother goes to work in the morning at 7:30 with the sandwich box on the back. That's also important for the world you grow up in. The observation that no progress has been made in this evaluation in the field of safety and the reduction of nuisances is, in fact, very much in line with the assessment of neighbourhood policy. I noticed that Mr Bashir was very enthusiastic about neighbourhood policy. However, there are also many evaluations of neighbourhood policy which are generally rather critical of the impact of the large sums deployed there. For example, the Leefbaarometer, which I recently shared with the Chamber, indicates that safety and nuisance are the main themes that determine the viability of life. It is precisely this type of evaluation that has prompted me to make provision for measures aimed at safety and nuisance, which are not yet possible. Mr Madlener asked in this context whether, if you take these measures, you should not immediately use the possibility of the 'Skaeve Huse', the Danish term he used for this purpose. That possibility exists. The municipality and a housing corporation can agree together that there will be housing in an area where there is little nuisance for residents. Due to Mr De Vries' amendment, once the First Chamber has also dealt with the rental market, the Act will make it possible for housing corporations to conclude temporary rental contracts for specific target groups. Then you can also apply it to people with a history of housing nuisance. The part that Mr Madlener is asking for is possible. A municipality and a housing corporation will of course consider whether to create a new problem area, but the type of measure of targeted housing for people with a history of nuisance is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u103	That's a good thing, that's what I'm saying to the Minister. If someone is unfit and causes inconvenience to their neighbors, you can say that they have to move elsewhere, but then that person gets neighbors again and so you've just moved the problem. That is, of course, a justified point. Nobody wants a tenant like that besides Mr. Van der Linde. Trouble in one place often also means nuisance in another place. Does the Minister think that this instrument, which can be used, should actually be used much more? I've seen that only a few municipalities do that sometimes, but not by a long shot. If municipalities want to relocate a nuisance, it would be better if they always do so in a place where it is no longer a nuisance. Why don't you put them together? This has worked well in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u104	It is of course a local consideration or a municipality that wants to use it. It is difficult for me to announce from The Hague that the municipality of Capelle aan den IJssel or Roermond must do so. This depends on local needs and needs. I understood from Mr Madlener's question that he wants to know if this is possible. The answer to that is complete: yes. There are also municipalities and housing corporations that have taken steps. Mr Madlener referred to that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u105	The risk is, of course, that there will be a waterbed effect, because a municipality says: we are banning them from our cheap neighbourhoods. The problem is then self-evident to the neighbouring municipality. If the number of cheap homes in one municipality is limited, they automatically go to another. Municipalities can therefore be tempted to deal only halfway with this problem. That way, of course, we are pumping problems around, and that should not happen. Again, does the Minister believe that it would be better for the communities they do not want to have in certain neighbourhoods to designate a place where they can live?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u106	I agree with Mr Madlener that it does not work if a municipality comes up with a half-approach. If a municipality wishes to make use of it and makes a specific application for it, there will be a review by me or my successors. Offering Skaeve Huse, or a similar variant, could be part of such an approach. I am not going to prescribe exactly how every municipality should do that, any more than for the rest of the approach. Again, that really depends on local customization. I can imagine a municipality saying: I really have this problem in a specific street or number of streets, but not city-wide. The example of D66, which shows that people are really being bullied away, is unfortunately very recognizable. This generally refers to a street or even a porch. Such a municipality can very well say: I do not necessarily have to set up new homes elsewhere in order to deal with this problem properly. When such an application comes, I will look closely at whether there is a global approach for that area, but I am not going to prescribe exactly what that approach should be, whether it is about Skaeve Huse or another part. However, it must be a comprehensive and perspectiveal approach. Mr Bashir asked whether ggz patients were not specifically affected by this law. This law looks at criminal backgrounds. If that does not go well through the statement of behaviour but through the police records, this law obliges the police to give an explanation. The police will not just say about someone who is clearly a psychiatric patient: this is a criminal on the grounds of evil faith. In that case, the police will indicate that the person is known as someone being treated. In addition, the people returning from the ggz are among the priority target groups of housing corporations. For both reasons, therefore, it is highly unlikely that this law would run counter to ggz patients or former ggz patients. Mr De Vries asked, on the basis of the review of the law currently in force, whether it is not possible to reconsider Article 8 which makes it possible to impose income requirements and to focus more on Article 9, which allows for a priority position for higher incomes. I do not think it makes sense to delete these measures. I don't read the evaluation like that either. I have just indicated that this shows that, on the one hand, the nuisance has not been reduced, but, on the other hand, the proportion of people with an income from work has increased. That is an important goal in itself. If Mr De Vries then asks me if I am prepared to take another critical look at these articles in the next evaluation, I am happy to say so. The purpose of an evaluation is, of course, to look critically at the functioning of the law and these two articles are in fact the core of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u107	I welcome that commitment. I would like to ask another question about the Minister's reasoning. If you conclude that there are more people living in a neighborhood with a job, after you've been keeping people out of work for years, I don't think that's such a crazy outcome. If you only allow people with blue eyes, you'll see over time that the number of people with blue eyes is increasing. I hope the evaluation doesn't see that, but the fact that you're resisting people and that you won't see any improvement in the quality of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u108	A further evaluation will also focus on the quality of life. Again, I find the fact that more people ride their sandwich boxes to work at 7.30 in the morning, a win in itself. Part of the prevention of ghetto formation is that your children give the impression that you deserve an income from working.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u109	We also agree on this, but the price is that you exclude people who do not have a job, who are often unable to do anything about it, from a housing permit. If it doesn't have any influence on the quality of life that there are also people who go to work daily with a sandwich box, except that it looks good in our minds, then I don't think that's enough to keep people out of work. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u110	I don't think you can draw that conclusion right now. I would also like to comment on the way in which Mr De Vries puts it. This measure also applies to a municipality which can only take place as part of a broader plan of approach, after approval by the Minister. There are therefore strict safeguards for this too. Part of this is that it is being considered whether the people who do not have income from work have sufficient opportunities for accommodation elsewhere. The evaluation shows that this component does not pose any problems. People do find shelter elsewhere. I come to the questions about the screening. Mr Van der Linde asked why the bill is based on a choice of screening, either on police records or on a statement of behaviour. That has been done because, as far as I am concerned, the added value of accumulation is not obvious. An explanation of behavior is based on real, harsh convictions. It doesn't add much to stack it on top of police records. In fact, you violate people's privacy twice. As a result, such a accumulation is more vulnerable to the weighting of fundamental rights that every Dutchman has. That is why we are presenting it in this legislative proposal in the form of or/or. Mr Van der Linde also asked why four years are being looked back. Isn't that too short of serious crimes? We have chosen for four years because this is also the look-back period for a vog application. We wanted to be consistent in that. At some point, you have to give people a new chance, because apparently they haven't fallen into their old behavior for a long time. Mr Bashir asked whether a tenant could be prevented on the grounds of mere notification or suspicion. He gave the example that someone just throws garbage on the street or just makes the music loud. It is important to stress once again that this procedure can only enter into force in an area where there are apparently long-term viability problems and where the municipality has a clear approach to this. So it's not like someone in a random neighborhood somewhere in the Netherlands can be confronted with this if he has the music too loud or throws garbage on the street, no matter how reprehensible both are. It must really be a neighbourhood where there is a structural problem of viability. In this case, if no other facts are known, the vog will be granted. These are very burdensome cases, but they do not fall into the category of crime. This illustrates exactly why it can be so important for livingability to work with police data. According to the bill, the police must also give an explanation. Such an explanation will be about whether someone has put the music too loud once at an exam party, or whether the police are called year after year, has called a number of times and does not improve someone's behavior, in a neighbourhood where the viability is already a problem. In such a case, the government will eventually have to side with the benevolent resident, who wants the children to sleep at night to go to school rested the next day. Such a measure is also proportionate in that case. I would also like to say straight away why Mr Bashir's statement that a vog would be sufficient is not valid as far as I am concerned. This is because it is not necessarily a criminal offence. Such behavior cannot be addressed if only the vog route is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u111	This example leads me to ask a question, because noise pollution often does not get through to an entire neighborhood, but to the adjacent house or apartment underneath. So it's a very local nuisance. It can be very serious: we may all know cases in our environment where this really leads to some kind of terror and people are being bullied out of their homes. If you're gonna move the people who make their neighbors' lives so miserable to another place, you've just moved the problem. Then you haven't improved the neighborhood, but then you've saddled other people with the trouble of the nuisance. So I repeat my question. Does the Minister really think it is a solution to say to such a nuisance: are you going to live somewhere else and be a nuisance there? It won't be in a detached villa, I can imagine. Doesn't the Minister think it's better for the municipality to think about where such people should be placed? Isn't it better to just put them together, the people with the loud music?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u112	Mr Madlener makes it a bit like we're facing each other, but I don't think we are. It's not like the municipality can just say yes or no. The municipality can also issue a permit with conditions when screening police data. For example, a condition may be that no noise is made anymore. Indeed, a condition could also be that there is accompanied living in a certain complex. This law therefore makes what Mr Madlener wants possible. Conversely, what Mr Madlener wants cannot be implemented if there is no such law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u113	You can impose on people as a condition that they should not make noise, but that is not always happening. Those people won't listen to that. After all, they are structural nuisances who have already shown that they do not care. Those are the very persistent cases. If the municipality finds that someone is a very persistent case for their neighbors, of course we should not move that person to other neighbors, because then you have the same problem. Such troublemakers really have to live in Skaeve Huse or in such a scum village, and I would ask the Minister to make that a little more compelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u114	Once again, a municipality can make that choice, at least if this law is passed, because now there is no such instrument. I cannot say centrally that this is always the ideal solution from Roermond to Capelle aan den IJssel and Rotterdam. I can say that without this law, the municipality does not actually have the necessary instruments, and that is why we are here. Mr De Vries asked whether the costs of the statement on behaviour could be borne by the municipality. That's okay, but I'm not going to centrally prescribe that because I'm not going to go over the municipal finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u115	I understand that, but I think this is a more important principle. Are we going to let the people we like in those houses, those complexes and those areas pay to keep the people we don't want out? I think that is a really strange point in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u116	It is precisely with this in mind that it is possible for a municipality to bear the costs of explaining the behaviour of the people of whom it considers it important that they live there. Again, these are specific areas, not neighbourhoods with tens of thousands of inhabitants. However, when it comes to municipal finances as a former alderman, Mr De Vries will recognize that. I do not feel obliged to make that mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u117	This former alderman would not like to have a debate with the council about it, but would prefer it if the Empire decided that those costs would be borne by the municipality, because it is justly fair. For a family consisting of four or five people it can be quite a lot, especially if it also has to pay a month or a month and a half rent as a deposit. That goes for such a family that is of good will and that fits in that neighborhood, really get up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u118	Then, as part of its approach, a municipality can take charge of these costs in respect of those good people whose municipality also wants them to live in that neighborhood. So there's a solution, but I can't impose it here with a snap of fingers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u119	Often that's an empty regulation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u120	Mr De Vries, I suggest that you make your interruption brief and concise. I think the Minister's answer was clear on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u121	The question is whether a municipality can do what the minister is now saying. Often, funds are charged on the basis of a tax or fee regulation that you cannot selectively apply. The only way you can't charge those costs is if the Empire says you can't. That's why I'm asking the Minister to make sure that this isn't allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u122	Once again, I will focus on the financial considerations of a municipality, without having to do so. A municipality can make such a trade-off itself. Mr De Vries also asked whether a person who is in a relationship can be blocked in withdrawing from the love of his or her life with someone who already lives in an area covered by this measure. In this case, we'll soon be talking about family life. Also having a stable relationship, even if not married properly, will still be considered part of family life. You have to be able to reasonably prove that it's a real relationship. In that case, the licence will not be refused, because it concerns family life. Mr De Vries also asked why buyers are not part of this law. This is because this proposal is an amendment to the Housing Act. At the time, in this Chamber, I believe that in 2013 the Housing Act was chosen to cover social housing, housing with scarcity and distribution issues in many municipalities. This amendment is also linked to the type of housing for which the law is now in force. I remember that only an exception has been made for residential properties in the Wadden Islands, because there is a shortage of housing there. Mr Koolmees asked, just as Mr De Vries did, whether the proposed review on the basis of criminal behaviour would not duplicate the assessment that is already possible on types of income. I don't see a double in that. It is an approach to two different lifestyle issues. One is the proportion of people with income from work. However, the bill really deals with abusive or criminal behavior. Mr Koolmees asked exactly how the explanation by the police is going. In the AMvB that we are working on, no precise impact has yet been given, because I have not yet received any signals on this. We have, of course, consulted closely with municipalities, police and housing corporations about this law. The wish simply didn't come true; therefore it wasn't fulfilled. Mr Koolmees also asked how to prevent very different signs in the different police regions. We intend, as should be the case with the entry into force of a new law, to include those who have to work with these measures through a training pathway in the way the police and other data subjects handle the data. I very much agree with Mr Koolmees that the confidentiality of data is crucial. In the AMvB that will follow this bill, we will therefore include a large number of safeguards regarding the careful handling of police data. Mr Koolmees asked me to refer the AMvB to the Chamber before it came into force. I am happy to do so, so that Mr Koolmees does not just have to take my word for it now, but can read it again quietly. Mr Koolmees asked how the Dutch Data Protection Authority is involved. He has his own authority to investigate. The handling of police data will of course also be included in the evaluation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u123	I attach great importance to this point. My colleague, Steven van Weyenberg, has, in the context of Suwinet and privacy-sensitive data at municipal level in relation to welfare benefits and that kind of social benefits, found a lot of abuses. We have had to pull it very hard to get it properly implemented in practice. What happened? Files were taken from well-known Dutchmen by all kinds of officials who had all kinds of login data. Since this is or may be very privacy-sensitive information, I think it would be very wise to be very clear about it in advance and to arrange it properly. Does the Minister intend to do so, for example through a training course and with such safeguards? I think it would be very wise if the Personal Data Authority were actively involved in the elaboration of this in order to prevent us from getting a repeat of Suwinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u124	I agree. Hence my offer to present the AMvB to the Chamber. Mr Koolmees has also tabled an amendment, in my view precisely for this purpose. I leave the opinion on the amendment to the House, because it fits in with the proper way in which I also want to deal with police data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u125	That is very positive, but I have asked questions on three issues. The first one concerned the hanging of the AMvB. The second, the amendment, concerned the importance of using it only for the licence. The third question was whether the Minister would like to ask the Dutch Data Protection Authority to check municipalities for the handling of these police data. The Authority shall have independent competence. I understand that, but I expect a slightly more active attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u126	I have no problem asking those questions to the authority. I am always a little reluctant to say to authorities who are independent of the Minister: would you not carry out checks? When I answer that, I think I will score three out of three, so I would like to say that Mr Koolmees is happy to do so. Then there are a number of questions about different subjects. Mr Van der Linde put a question to him. Others agreed with him on shortening the period for the issue of the housing permit. I agree that rapid treatment is very important. The time limits for handling government decisions are laid down in the General Administrative Law Act. It is not very logical to agree on separate time limits under this law which differ from that. Mr Van der Linde also asked about the role of the province. I indicated that the province is being consulted on the impact on the housing market. Furthermore, the province is the supervisor of municipalities. If there is cause for concern about the way in which the municipality implements this law and other laws, the province is the appropriate authority to intervene. Mr Bashir asked what had been done with the letter from the College of Human Rights. As a result, a restrictive list of offensive and criminal offences has been included in the legislative proposal. It has also been decided to draw up an AMvB, to which I referred in the direction of Mr Koolmees, which includes additional safeguards on privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u127	Both the Human Rights College and the Council of State have strongly criticised this bill. I would have expected the Minister to start his input with reasons of principle why he considers this bill to be more important than the objections mentioned. When I read what both organisations are writing, I can only say that this bill is actually being chopped up. There is talk of a serious violation of fundamental rights: freedom of establishment, free movement of persons and respect for privacy. It's going pretty far. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u128	Mr Bashir asked why I did not begin my speech on fundamental rights. I started my speech on fundamental rights. In fact, I started by referring to the words of Mr Bashir and Mr Van der Linde, because they pointed out how important the fundamental right to safe and undisturbed living is for all inhabitants of the Netherlands. This is so important that as a government you may be forced, under strict guarantees, to restrict the fundamental rights of the troublemakers. At the end of the day, I will take the side of the friendly citizen who wants his children to have an undisturbed night's sleep and be safe on the street. That's what I said. That's how I guarantee these people's fundamental rights. We are not doing this lightly, hence the extended review procedure in this law. But it is a balance between fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u129	I get that. In fact, if what the minister is saying was at the heart of his bill, I would have embraced the bill. Who's against dealing with nuisance? The nuisance is just not adjusted, it is spread across the Netherlands. Now some of the neighborhoods are affected, but they're about to be forced to move to other neighborhoods. Then the whole of the Netherlands suffers from that. That is at the heart of the criticism of the College of Human Rights. That says: soon, for example, the municipalities and housing corporations may be able to look at the data of all Dutch people who want to live somewhere, to ward off a few nuisances from a certain neighborhood, after which these people will then be distributed throughout the Netherlands. That is a fairly serious violation of the rights of both individuals, both the troublemaker and those who experience nuisance, without having addressed the problems. That is why I come back to my first question, the reasons for doing so in principle. What the Minister is proposing is quite considerable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u130	Mr Bashir's long speech really contains a number of inaccuracies. He states that nothing is being done about the causes, but only that it is being spread. I have argued in detail that it was already stated in the Law on State aid that I will only grant permission if the municipality demonstrates that it is an area with serious, long-term problems where the municipality also takes other measures. So that theorem just doesn't add up. Mr Bashir says that a housing corporation has access to data. That's not true, either. It may be that Mr Bashir and I disagree on the substance of the matter, but then we must be very precise on what point we disagree on the substance. Mr Bashir asked whether these measures were linked to the cuts in the police force and whether there should be more money to the police. No, these measures are motivated by an urgent desire of municipalities and housing corporations, which need additional tools, as Mr Ronnes said. Speaking of cutting back on the police, there is some discussion about passing on election programmes, but I did take a quick look at how much the SP was cutting back on the police, and that really was a quarter of a billion. Then you should be glad that measures are being taken after all. Mr De Vries asked why no action has been taken against municipalities which are already carrying out screening. The fact that screening is already being carried out by a large number of municipalities indicates the need for this type of measure. The way it is happening now is not illegal, but it is also not legally guaranteed. So I didn't see any reason to go over that with the knot. In the way in which the supervision of the municipalities is regulated, that would also be the province. Since I do not think it is properly guaranteed now, I have just submitted this bill to the Chamber. At the moment, no firm guarantees have been laid down as to how these police records should be handled exactly. The type of police data and how privacy should be handled are not regulated. With the current application of the instrument by municipalities, the appeal and objection are not properly regulated and there is no review by the minister, who assesses the effects on surrounding municipalities and who examines whether sufficient other instruments have been used. The fact that screening is already being carried out on a fairly large scale is an important signal, which I would like to have a good legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u131	Isn't that what these municipalities are doing to violate people's fundamental rights without a legal basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u132	Of course, any tenant or tenant is free to go to court in such a municipality and make the point of Mr De Vries. That's gonna be an exciting trial. But that is different from Mr De Vries' question to me whether I have seen any reason to act. Yes, I have seen reason to act in the way we are discussing here tonight. I did not want to appeal to the municipalities that it is completely undesirable what they are doing, because I also see the need for instruments to deal with nuisance. Mr De Vries then asked why there was no obligation to consult tenants and landlords in the law. Since we have already laid down in the Housing Act that this consultation should take place and it is logical that this subject should be on the table, it seems to me that it is twice as important to include this in this law. I'm assuming the three parties really know how to find each other. If you want to take these measures, it is a big issue, which is really explicitly addressed in the city council, but as far as I am concerned, too, in that discussion on local performance agreements. Mr De Vries also asked whether the assessment of the landlord levy later this year looked at the possibility of creating an Investment Budget for Urban Renewal. I have made this commitment before, of course within the financial rules we have agreed on. I will indeed look at the possibilities for this. I come to the amendments that have been tabled. The first is the amendment to item No. 8 by Mr Koolmees, who calls for an additional guarantee for dealing with police data. I have just indicated in an interrupting debate that I would like to leave this amendment to the House's judgement. Secondly, I come to the amendment on item No. 9 by Mr Bashir, proposing to delete screening by means of police data and to allow only screening on the basis of the behavior statement. I already indicated that a lot of troublesome behavior wouldn't come into the picture that way. Furthermore, we do not have the possibility to attach a behavioral requirement to a housing permit, but also an important instrument, because in that case you do not have to refuse but can install an additional guarantee to protect the residents. For both reasons, I would advise against this amendment in respect of item No. 9. The amendment in part No. Mr De Vries and Mr Van der Linde proposed to shorten the procedure for granting the housing permit from eight weeks to four weeks with a possibility of extension. I have just indicated that the General Administrative Law contains deadlines for government decisions. The bill as it is now before us is a part of it. I find it difficult in the system of Dutch legislation to suddenly deviate from what is actually the overarching law for decision-makers. Since I understand the concerns of the Chamber about the emptying of rental homes, I am prepared to consult again with municipalities and police, those who will also have to process the data, on whether they can work towards a shorter lead time in practice. I shall return to the AMvB, which I shall submit to the Chamber. I should, however, like to say that I have to dissuade this amendment from being hard at the moment. In the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr De Vries, it is proposed to apply the screening also to buyers, not only to tenants. I have already indicated that the background to applying the Housing Act to tenants is that the Housing Act is currently focusing, with the exception of the Wadden Islands, on scarce housing, i.e. on social housing. Since this is about the fight against nuisance and criminal behaviour, which is something other than scarcity, I can understand Mr De Vries' wish. All things considered, I shall therefore leave this amendment to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u133	I have one question to clarify. Thus, the social housing would be included as well as housing for sale, but the free rentals would not be included. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u134	No, then free rent is included. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 12 It proposes that the power to issue the residence certificate should not be placed with the College of Mayors and aldermen, but only with the Mayor. The choice for the college of mayor and aldermen has been renewed to the system of the Housing Act as it is now. An additional argument now that it concerns data on nuisance and criminal behavior is that in the legislative proposal we very sharply frame what type of data can be used. A mayor has knowledge of more facts about residents known to the police as a result of his duties. It will then be a task for a mayor to separate in his head the facts he knows, but not to use them in the application of this law, and the facts he knows and may use in the application of this law, because he has been given them by the police under this law. On both fronts, I must, on balance, discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u135	I'm having a really hard time with that. I've asked a lot of questions about the validity of the police records and the serious breach of people's privacy. I know from experience that when a college of mayor and aldermen is aware of backgrounds, a lot of officials are involved. There is then a fairly wide spread. It is very common for confidential data to run through the mayor's administration. I also assume that we appoint mayors who are able to distinguish between data they may use for one task and data they may use for another. The Minister's argument on that point does not seem to me to be a very good argument. I assume we'll appoint mayors who can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u136	I don't rule out Mayors being able to do this. I indicated that I have two reasons for choosing the college of mayor and aldermen instead of just the mayor. One reason is that the law does the same on other parts and the other is that a mayor can get into a complicated position. Not necessarily impossible, but complicated. These two factors bring me to the conclusion that this amendment should not be recommended. Finally, there is the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Van der Linde. This is intended to shorten the procedure for the designation of areas to a maximum of eight weeks instead of the thirteen weeks that are now available. This reduction might be possible, so I would like to leave this amendment to the Court's judgement. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u137	Thank you. I'll take a look at the members. You have a second deadline, so if there are any questions left, I would suggest that you raise them in that second period. First of all, in the second term, I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u138	Mr. Chairman. I think I can be very brief. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. I'm glad he makes us understand that we're not as far apart from each other as we might think from time to time. At least we all serve the same purpose. One of the questions I asked has not yet been answered, but I suspect I already know the answer to that. The third question is: how do we screen people who come from outside the Netherlands? I suspect the reality is that we simply cannot. Then let us face it. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u139	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer he has given to the questions. The Minister began by repeating both my words and those of Mr Van der Linde. I take that as an incentive to put forward a proposal to boost the quality of life. That's what I'm gonna do, because if you want to liveability and liveable neighborhoods, you're gonna have to make money for that, too. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities have been given more tasks with less budget;]] [[Whereas an effective neighbourhood approach with the control of local residents prevents nuisance;]] [[noting that there is currently no budget or policy for neighbourhood approach;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Housing Union, Aedes and the Eigen Huis Vereniging Eigen Huis, to draw up a proposal to create a rural neighbourhood improvement fund, taking into account local differences and the control of local residents, and to submit this to the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34314-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u140	Is it not better to talk first about the availability of sufficient funding before talking about such a fund? Wouldn't the evaluation of the landlord's tax be a good time for that? We would then be able to see how we can implement this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u141	We are now talking about tackling the problems. We have now discussed this in detail. The cabinet is proposing to spread problems, but we want them to be really addressed. In the first term, you challenged me to mention amounts. I did, but I don't have them in mind when working out this motion. This motion asks the cabinet to work together with social parties to find a budget and then to work it out. I think it is now time to take action. We shouldn't wait too long. What else needs to be done? Aedes has done research under 174 corporations that show that problems are really reduced if you choose a closing approach. I would therefore ask the Minister to do something about this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people are expected to live independently at home for a longer period of time;]] [[Whereas millions of euros have been saved on welfare work and mental health care;]] [[Considering that housing corporations received around 18,000 reports of structural nuisance due to confused persons in 2015;]] [[noting that a coherent approach to municipal, police, ggz and civil society organisations can reduce nuisances, as a survey by Aedes among 174 corporations showed;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities, police, ggz and civil society organisations, to ensure a coherent approach to minimise the causes and consequences of nuisance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34314-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u142	Finally. I wonder how the Minister gets the figures on the cuts the SP would like to make on the police. I didn't find it. I took up our election program with the cash flow bill that was there, the financial picture. The SP invests 100 million in security and 100 million in strengthening the rule of law. We also pay EUR 140 million to the police. In total, this is EUR 340 million. Indeed, we are also making savings, namely by legalising soft drugs. According to the CPB, that's a cut. All I see is an increase of 160 million. Maybe we should take a look at where things aren't quite right between the Minister's figures and mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u143	The minister's coming up with an iPad and showing us the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u144	Mr. Chairman. We see the problems in the disadvantaged neighbourhoods only increase because of the constant flow of new disadvantaged non-Western immigrants. That's actually what all the parties in this house on my party, the PVV, are forgetting. You shouldn't mop with the tap open. If you don't handle this, then the rest of you don't make much sense. If you want to tackle people who cause structural and serious nuisance to their neighbors, then of course you shouldn't just let them move elsewhere. Then they will again cause trouble there. You actually have to put them in a separate house, in bastards' huts, rigging villages or Skaeve Huse, to say it to his Danish, because there are good experiences with that. I'm filing a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[Whereas this will speed up the deterioration of vulnerable but relatively viable neighbourhoods;]] [[Whereas in Denmark, the so-called Skaeve Huse offer a proven approach to nuisances;]] [[calls on the Government to require municipalities wishing to make use of selective housing allocation in connection with serious and repeatedly burdensome behaviour to offer alternative housing in places where this will not lead to nuisance (Skaeve Huse, scum villages or shithouses),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34314-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u145	This motion is about the structural cause of nuisance and not about selection on the basis of income, because then, of course, it makes no sense. In cases of nuisance, of course, we should not just let people cause nuisance elsewhere. That was just a comment on the definition of the motion. I hope the Minister will give me a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u146	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I am pleased to note that if things get really exciting, we have the same view, namely that the right to safe living and a safe living environment should prevail over the rights of people who cause serious nuisance. I am also pleased that the Minister has clearly stated that the measure introduced into this law is the final piece and part of an overall approach. He promised that he would look at an opportunity for a new urban renewal budget in the evaluation of the landlord's tax. The Labour Party attaches great importance to tabling a motion on this matter in relation to this law and in order to determine the overall approach. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods in the Netherlands where there is serious pressure on viability;]] [[Whereas this applies in any case in neighbourhoods in which complexes, streets or areas have been designated by the Minister for Housing and National Service for the application of the instruments of the Law special measures metropolitan problems;]] [[Whereas the use of these instruments is only effective if it is part of a comprehensive approach to the quality of life in the area in question;]] [[Whereas it is better to start an approach to quality of life earlier in order to prevent the use of far-reaching resources such as those provided for in the Special Measures Act, and that the Urban Renewal Investment Budget was an effective tool for this at the time;]] [[calls on the government, when evaluating the landlord levy, to examine the possibilities of re-creating an Investment Budget Urban Renewal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34314-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u147	The Labour Party welcomes the Minister's commitment to review the application of Article 8 in the next review. We really do attach great importance to considering whether a link can be established between the exclusion of people without jobs and their viability and that the criterion is to determine whether Article 8 can be enforced. We think it is wrong that people who have to consult a vog because they need a housing permit, who have to pay for it themselves. We are therefore tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to obtain a statement of conduct, fees are due;]] [[Whereas, when applying the Special Measures Act, such a declaration can be made compulsory for the purpose of obtaining a housing permit and that it can only allow access to a housing for which a household is eligible under the priority rules;]] [[Whereas this will result in costs for households who are welcome in a designated complex, street or area;]] [[requests the Government to consider whether these costs can be borne by the relevant municipality or landlord,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34314-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u148	I am also pleased that the Minister has left to the Chamber the proposal that a housing permit should also be available for access to houses of sale. I'd think it'd be really fair if that happened. I therefore hope that there will be sufficient support for this in the Chamber. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to consider whether there has been consultation with tenants and the housing corporation when assessing applications. I understand that this should not necessarily be included in the law, but I think it is an important test point. My final point is about the mayor. Police records contain really sensitive information. This is quite different from the data currently used in the housing regulation. I understand that police data can be shared by B and W, but I do not think it is desirable for this data to be widely distributed in the administration. We will therefore stick to the amendment we have tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u149	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. Anyway, I'd like to compliment you on the pieces. I believe that there is a very structured approach with careful steps and also good safeguards and a legal anchor to settle this very sensitive issue neatly. I said in my first term that I do see dilemmas, because you really do have a trade-out of fundamental rights, and that the viability of life is in conflict with the freedom of establishment. I raised three points in my first term. The first was about effectiveness. I am now also convinced of the en-en approach to livingability. So you have to look at both socio-economic criteria and the burdensome criteria. At the same time, I think it is very good that Mr De Vries has provoked the Minister to make a commitment on the evaluation of Article 8. If the next evaluation proves that it is simply not effective, that it does not work and that this approach, the reduction of nuisance, does work, but that a very broad approach based on socio-economic indicators does not work, then it would also be time, as far as my group is concerned, for Article 8 to be removed. But let's wait and see about that evaluation. I am very pleased with my 3-out-3 score in terms of the care of the use of police data. I am referring to the involvement of the Personal Data Authority in dealing with that data, in order to prevent us from getting a Suwinet debacle, but also about hanging up an AMvB. I am also pleased with that and the positive opinion on the amendment that regulates that the data can only be used for the authorisation and not for other purposes. So thank you for that. That really creates some guarantees. I've got one more little snoop to call it, but it's important. I'm an economist and I'm not a lawyer, so maybe I'll be on slippery ice right now. The law makes it very clear that the College of Mayors and aldermen has a delegation clause for officials authorised to implement this law. With regard to the Chief of Police, there is no delegation clause. There are now ten police chiefs in the Netherlands. The Minister indicated in his first term that this will be worked out in an AMvB, but then you will need a hook, I say as a non-lawyer, to assign it to an official as well. Is that settled now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u150	Mr Ronnes waived a second-term contribution. It appears to me that the Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u151	Mr. Chairman. I will give the answers in the order of the questioners. Mr Van der Linde's first question was whether it is possible to screen people from abroad. No, it cannot be because of the practical consideration that data will not be available either through the police data or in the context of the statement of behaviour. I have one more clarification on my part. Mr Van der Linde asked whether free sector rentals were also part of the screening. I replied "yes." That "yes" remains valid, but the municipality must include in the Housing Regulation the amount of the rent covered by the screening. The "yes" therefore depends on the way in which the municipality fills that out. I served Mr Bashir partly through my iPad. For the Acts, I have shown him the pass-through of Choices in Maps, in which I found the amount of a quarter billion discount on security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u152	For the sake of completeness: the Minister is absolutely right; it is so in it. It also says that the SP cuts that quarter billion on device costs, while spending more on extra agents. That's literally what it says. So the SP definitely spends more on cops.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u153	To finish the discussion: if the agents want to see their minutes worked out, they look around in an empty office, because there are things that have been cut off. For the effectiveness of those cops, that doesn't really help. However, that is not at the heart of the discussion we are having in this debate. Mr. Chairman. In the Bashir motion to item No. 14 The government is invited, in consultation with the VNG, the Housing Union, Aedes and the Eigen Huis Association, to draw up a proposal to create a rural neighbourhood improvement fund. Mr Ronnes was right to point out that this motion does not cover the landlord's tax assessment. An uncovered motion, Mr Bashir, knows me and I will always have to advise against it. In his motion in part No. 15 Mr Bashir asked the government, together with municipalities, police, ggz and civil society organisations, to ensure a coherent approach to minimise the causes and consequences of nuisance. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it is implemented through the chasing team of confused persons, an initiative of my colleague Mr Van Rijn, then I can see it as a support for policy. If Mr Bashir is referring to a new initiative, I must advise against it. Perhaps Mr Bashir could explain how the motion should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u154	Mr Bashir, let me look in your direction. We may then be able to conclude this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u155	This motion is consistent with what Aedes has done. At 174 corporations, Aedes has looked at how it works there and has seen that in a number of municipalities there is a coherent approach. I'm referring to the same closing approach that was taken in that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u156	I am afraid that I cannot see that the Van Rijn initiative is being taken on board, but that a new initiative is being called for. To be honest, there is no funding for this either. In that case, I'll have to dissuade the motion. I have tried to give a hand to Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u157	Would it then be an idea that I should hold the motion and that the Minister, together with Aedes and the fellow minister, should look at the difference between the hunting team and what Aedes has advocated and that we should come back to that at a later stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u158	If that does not mean that the vote on the entire legislative proposal will be postponed, I would be happy to return to it in writing on the overlap that we may find between the Aedes measure referred to by Mr Bashir and the plans of State Secretary Van Rijn. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u159	In that case, I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u160	At the request of Mr Bashir, I propose his motion (34314, No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u161	I have an order question. We also have a debate on confused tenants on the long-term schedule. Is that what this is all about? After all, I assume that Mr Bashir made his point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u162	Mr Bashir pointed out that the debate had not been withdrawn. So that remains on long-term planning. Mr Bashir, of course, decides himself when to put the motion to the vote and whether to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u163	Mr Madlener asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 16 to require municipalities wishing to use selective housing allocation to offer alternative housing in places where this will not lead to nuisance. I have already indicated that this is quite possible, but I do not think it is logical that I should require this from The Hague for all the municipalities in the Netherlands, including those that themselves state that they do not need it because they have sufficient living space elsewhere. On balance, therefore, I must discourage this motion. Mr De Vries notes with me that the measures under this law are only possible as part of an overall approach and that I or my successor will also take a critical look at Article 8 at the next evaluation, as I say to Mr Koolmees. Mr De Vries asked me if I would also like to see if there has been any consultation with housing corporations and tenant organisations. It seems reasonable to me to test that. That's what I'm happy to say. Mr De Vries expressed his concern about the widespread dissemination of police data. I have already indicated that I would like to include additional safeguards in the General Measure on the careful handling of police data and that it is clearly not intended to be widely disseminated. It is also necessary to establish who can make use of it within the municipality. Mr De Vries has tabled two motions. With the motion in part No. 17 invites the government, when evaluating the landlord levy, to examine the possibilities of re-creating an investment budget for urban renewal. I've promised before. Now that we have been asked for this once again, I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. With the motion in part No. 18 Mr De Vries asked the Government to consider whether the costs of a statement of conduct could be borne by the municipality or landlord concerned. I have indicated that a municipality can do this, but I think it is wrong to centrally prescribe municipalities that they should do this. On balance, therefore, I must discourage this motion. Mr Koolmees thanked me for the commitments I made about dealing with police data and privacy. He had, as he himself said, a snooping point about the possibility of being delegated by the police chief. Mandating by the chief of police of the regional unit to a subordinate is possible. That's the answer to the nose tip. I hope I have answered all the remaining questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u164	I would like to make another attempt to amend my motion, which has been dissuaded. Could the Minister live with a term such as "promoting" or "stimulating" rather than the obligation to offer alternative housing? So it is not an obligation but an incentive for the municipalities to opt for this solution and not just to say that someone is not allowed to live anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u165	If the request were that the municipality take into account in its considerations the possibility to offer alternative housing, then I can ignore it. Then a municipality can provide tailor-made services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u166	"Department" is a bit too noncommittal to me again. I am really concerned that the Minister should work on these solutions and tell municipalities to do so, but that they should ensure that the problem not only moves, but that there is also a solution, as Rotterdam does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u167	Let's do it like this, because to make a precise text about this by 11:30 in the evening... I would like to look at an alternative text proposal and let the other Members of Parliament know in writing what my opinion is on this matter. This also offers the opportunity to chew on it for a while. I will share my opinion in writing with the Chamber, because I assume that the vote will be on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u168	I'd like to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u169	I assume the Minister will do so before next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u170	I am surprised at the Minister's response. That would mean getting scum villages in the Netherlands. Is the minister for that? The PVV is talking about rig villages. The motion says the word "motherfucker" huts. I can't imagine the Minister wanting this. Maybe I'll help him by pointing out those last sentences of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u171	I have indicated that I am deceiving the motion with this text. I tried to help on the spot, but I couldn't. Then I indicated that maybe we shouldn't try to do it now. Mr Bashir has a point to make when he says that the choice of words could perhaps be a little more diplomatic. We will take that into account in the recitals and the verdict on the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-32.u172	The motions, amendments and the bill will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would point out that the amendment to item No. 19 in the meantime that in part No. 13 replaces, with a new signature by Mr Ronnes. I thank the Minister for coming and the members for their input.
