ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u1	Finally, we will meet on Thursday 6 October on the Organization of Supreme Administrative Law Act. I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, everyone who is listening and watching, and, of course, the spokesperson, in dealing with this substantial law. Seven speakers have come forward for tonight. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the future of administrative justice has been going on since 1984, but let me go a little bit less back in time. In 2007, my predecessor Jan de Wit said that the judicial task should be removed from the Council of State. After all, there can be an appearance of partiality as long as the body that gives the highest judgment also advises the government on legislative proposals. That is not good for people's confidence in justice. However, that proposal did not succeed. However, the end of the double nominations at the Council of State was discussed in 2007. This means that people can no longer be members of both the Advisory Section of the Council of State and of the Court of Justice of the Council of State. That proposal, on the reform of the Council of State, did not make it in a very strange way, even though a majority of the House was in favour of it. The role played by the PvdA in particular at that time is not something I will fully recall, but this parliamentary history is important. I want to try to understand very clearly what is happening here. The draft law before us will put an end to the double nominations. The Council of State is further split up. Is this cause for happiness? Not at all. The government largely leaves the administrative court before the Court of Justice of the Council of State. There are even more judicial tasks, namely the cases of the Board of Appeal for Industry (CBb). The SP continues to support the organisation of administrative justice, including on appeal, within the case law. We think that is more appropriate in principle. The important step that should be taken now, namely the removal of administrative jurisdiction from the Council of State, is not being taken. The SP really thinks that's a missed opportunity. The government's proposals have serious reservations. There's criticism from all sides. The Council of Justice concludes that the legislative proposal needs to be fundamentally reconsidered and not presented in its present form. The Hoge Raad also ideally sees one supreme judge in administrative law, just like the Central Board of Appeal, all the more because the Hoge Raad fears that existing specializations, particularly in the field of social security, will be lost. This is bad for quality and the existing knowledge infrastructure. The Board of Appeal for Business also wants one highest administrative judge to be appointed. Bringing the CBb to the Council of State is a bad idea because, for example, in the field of market surveillance or administrative criminal law, an independent judge is essential and there should be no appearance of bias or non-independentness. The Nederlandse Vereniging voor Rechtrecht (NVvR) advises against the submission of the bill because the choices contained therein for the establishment of the system of administrative justice are, in its opinion, fundamentally incorrect and insufficiently thought-out. And then there is a pile of articles in which professors cut these proposals. Half-hearted, insufficiently thought-out, with little courage and a serious lack of vision: those are still the more friendly qualifications. So these plans have no support, at least not outside this Chamber. That's obvious. I honestly don't get it. May I remind colleagues and the government of the vote taken in the Chamber (33000-VII, No. 54) of the VVD, the Labour Party, the SP and D66 of 2011? It clearly stated: 'calls on the government to take the judicial role of the Council of State elsewhere'. This motion has been signed by Mr Taverne, Mr Heijnen, Mr Van Raak and Mr Schouw; they belong to the groups I have just mentioned. So that motion is not being carried out now. I mean, you can't accept that, can you, like, the VVD? There is also the government agreement between two parties who have been in favour of this for a long time. How is that possible? What happened here? I'd like to get an explanation on this. Are there any invisible powers we don't know? Why isn't what really needs to be done? Where's the fear? What exactly happened, Joost may know. Indeed, I am referring to Mr Taverne. We'd love to hear from him how this all happened. There was an approved motion of his hand, there was a government agreement in which he was involved, but there was a completely different proposal that did not correspond to that at all. I am very curious to hear the statement made by, among other things, Mr Taverne. I do not think the government's arguments are strong. Expertise would be lost if we removed justice from the Council of State. Why? Why, apparently, does this argument not apply to the CRvB and the CoB? I would like an explanation of this. I thank you for the fact that maintaining expertise is not one-on-one related to maintaining an organisation, but above all to individuals. The Council of State even argues that social costs will increase if a body other than the Council of State deals with the matter. I think that this is not true has been proven before. The cases being dealt with are not comparable. Cases in foreign law often do not hold a hearing. There's a whole different M.O. There is a different number ratio between the judges: less than in the ordinary judiciary. The official support of the Council of State is, on the contrary, greater than that of the ordinary judiciary. So more support and fewer judges. For that reason too, you can't just compare it all. This is quite apart from my opinion that efficiency considerations, such as 'who can do it cheapest', should not be the deciding factor. The proposal of the SPD and of many others, because I did not come up with it myself, is to fully integrate the administration of justice into the ordinary judiciary. This can be done by establishing a new administrative court as part of the judiciary. This will then be the responsibility of the administrative court in the highest instance. The Supreme Court, the Court of Justice, the National Court of Justice, the Board of Appeal for Industry and the Central Board of Appeal are also in favour of this. This preserves the existing expertise and quality. All appearances of conflict of interest are thus removed and the legal unit is optimally guaranteed. Nor does it require the complex new procedures that need to be developed again. The SP proposal therefore does not require this. If administrative law is in one hand, the legal unit is guaranteed. Can I have a comprehensive response from the ministers to this proposal? I understand that you cannot change this from today to tomorrow; that has to be done carefully, you have to take the time. But you really shouldn't take any steps to get the ideal picture of that one administrative court farther away and out of sight. I think the government proposal is going exactly the wrong way. The Board of Appeal for Industry is attached to the Council of State. This right-wing task is therefore not removed from the Council of State; no, it is strengthened and extended. The Central Board of Appeal is divided among the courts. This is certainly not conducive to the legal unit. To ensure that we do not drift further away from the idea or concept of the administrative court, I have tabled amendments together with colleagues from D66 and GroenLinks. The Central Board of Appeal is not fragmented, but incorporated into the new court to be set up. The College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven can find a good place to stay. I would, of course, like to receive a comprehensive response from the government to this proposal, as well as to the question: is this the terminal station? In fact, let us definitively leave the judicial task to the Council of State or do the government consider this to be a future scenario on which it could still think; where can this best be accommodated? I have specific comments on the Central Appeals Board. This specialist professional judge deals, among other things, with benefit issues, disability issues and matters concerning the implementation of the Social Support Act by the municipalities. Ministers decided that in future these specialities could be better dispersed across the four courts. I don't think that's a good idea. The judges of the CSR point out that they are dealing with many laws, which are also being amended at a rapid pace. A quote from the Volkskrant: "Now we sit together and we agree everything so that you don't get different statements. If you divide it over four courts, you will knowingly or unconsciously run the risk that everyone will follow their own line." This was said by one of the councillors who drew up a manifesto on this issue earlier this year in the Volkskrant. The quote goes on: "Citizens may be in cassation with the Supreme Court, but that is no longer the case. Thus, for example, unequal treatment in the provision of assistance or a pgb cannot be repaired." The division of the case law of the Central Board of Appeal is not good for the legal unit and legal certainty, and I do not think it is good for the quality of social security justice and civil service justice. In fact, it is painful for ministers that judges, who are naturally reluctant, are forced to interfere in the public debate in this way. In fact, nothing has been done about the warnings that have been issued for years by these judges of the CRvB, nor has it been done about the Council's warnings for the case-law, the NVvR and many others, in fact the whole legal world. Can the Minister give me a substantive response to the council's criticism that knowledge is being destroyed, that things are going to take longer, that there is danger of legal inequality, and that this also entails higher costs for citizens and administrative bodies? We are talking about EUR 11 million in structural housing costs in the courts alone. Why would we do that? Then I have specific comments on the College of Occupation for Industry. These matters will be placed with the Council of State. According to the SP this is very debatable. The Council of State does not now deal with matters of economic governance law and has little experience with the issues currently being dealt with by the CBb. However, because of the nature of the matter, these matters do not belong to the Council of State, at least that should not be preferred. The College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsbedrijfsbericht reviews important decisions of regulators acting to regulate markets, such as the Authority for Consumer & Market, the Authority for Financial Markets and the Dutch Healthcare Authority. These supervisors are deliberately kept at a distance from the government. And rightly so: it concerns, among other things, market surveillance and administrative justice. Folkert Jensma wrote about this in NRC: "Who will control the Healthcare Authority and the Authority Consumer & Market and ProRail? Who's protecting Vodafone and Veronica from the state? Who decides whether DSB Bank's victims are covered by the deposit guarantee scheme? Pension funds, pharmacists, bus companies: in the CBb, a diverse variety of companies often sues for millions of euros against the state." An independent judge is essential in all these areas. That is true in all areas, but certainly in this one. Think, for example, of the Authority for Consumer & Market, which decides on the tariffs and conditions for the use of energy networks. As a shareholder of both TenneT and Gasunie, the Dutch State has a strong interest in this. These are hundreds of millions of euros or sometimes even billions. Now the judicial review of these decisions is brought closer to the government, no matter how you turn it or turn it. This gives the impression that the government prefers not to allow these decisions, which are important for the government itself, to be judged by ordinary case law, but rather by the Council of State. For this reason, too, I do not think this is a sensible proposal. It is the SP's preference to avoid all appearances of conflict of interest. Can I have an extensive response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u3	Once again, the Court of Justice of the Council of State has a wide range of cases on which it has the highest jurisdiction: infrastructure, the environment, land-use planning. Is the SP now suggesting that this is not completely independent?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u4	I am referring specifically to the appearance of partiality. It is a body that advises both the legislator in all the laws that come into being, but also in law. There's been a lot of fuss about that in the past. I know the history very well. I know very well that we have said in the past, in the 2007 and 2009 laws, that if we do this now, it is the ECHR proof and it can be legally accepted. A judge shall not rule on the same question of law as he or she gave advice on at the time. All of this may be true, but I do not think it is good for citizens' confidence in justice if the body that is a consultant to the government is also the body that gives justice. So I'm talking about appearances. I went to see that justice myself. I was truly impressed there. I believe that this is done very carefully and neatly, but I am concerned about the appearance of partiality and not complete independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u5	We are doing something about this today by taking apart even more solid justice and advice. The great danger of continuing to say that one should be careful because it is not a good judge who is actually too close to the government is that we undermine the authority of the Department of Justice in all those statements, which are important and go in two directions, both to the public authorities and to environmental organisations and citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u6	That it wouldn't be a good judge, you don't hear me say. I'm not saying that here. I think it's high-quality justice. I fully understand Mr Recourt's question, but for more than ten years we have been in favour of removing the right-wing role from it and of placing it elsewhere for reasons of principle. Wouldn't it be weird if I weren't allowed to find that here because it would undermine the authority of the body of the Council of State? It's a position I have. I really don't think the government's advisor should be a judge either. That is really a position we have. The Labour Party also had and probably still has that view. We're about to hear that. The same applies to the VVD and D66. That motion is quite clear, and I think that is also true of the coalition agreement. What is happening here is not in line with that. There's nothing else I can do. I will continue my speech with a question about the College of Occupation for Industry. What does it really cost to abolish that body and to re-shape the judges who need to be re-shape? I don't think moving highly-specialized judges who suddenly have to do other cases is just gonna happen. I do not think that has been taken into account. At least I'm not seeing the calculations again. Then right-hand position. There is also a great deal to be said about the design, the way in which this transfer of CBB's affairs is carried out. The judges, the councillors, are not all taken over by the Council of State. I am talking about the scenario of the bill as it stands, not the scenario I would like to see. The CBb's affairs are transferred to the Council of State, but it does not take over all the counsellors. Because it is absolutely not allowed to take judges off current cases, it becomes possible to appoint them as state council in extraordinary service, so that they can finish cases. In my view, this is also in favour of the Council of State. But there is no question of taking counsel seriously. The principle of "man follows work" is therefore not followed. There are eight senior councillors taken over, but then there are eight other counsellors for whom there would really be no place within the Council of State, according to the Council of State itself. I agree with the criticism of this by, among other things, the Dutch Association for Justice. If you are already choosing to shape this bill as it is now done, again, I am not in favour of it, then at least all the counsellors will have to deal with it. Here again I agree with the main editorial comment of NRC yesterday. "Everywhere else, this is purely a question of staffing, but in the rule of law, the judge and the case coincide. They're their jobs. Politics must never suspend the allocation of cases to judges without consensus with the case law. That is happening now and that is messing around with counsellors." The judges' union NVvR even calls it bizarre that if the plans continued with this unique reorganisation of 350 people, eight people would remain orphaned, because not all counsellors of the CBb would be transferred to the Council of State. I agree. I would like to hear a commitment that this will be changed. I have a motion on this particular point ready to submit in the second term. There is even more criticism from the Dutch National Court of Justice that cuts wood. That is the criticism that the legal positional provisions are wrongly regulated in a separate law of introduction, not in the law itself. Why was that even chosen? Why was it possible at the time to do so with the Judicial Card Review Act? Surely there's no good reason why that doesn't happen now? In any case, will the law which will govern the legal status be in force at the same time as this law? Can we get that commitment? Nor do I think it is conceivable that this would not be the case, but I would like to have that clear commitment. In redesigning the case law, the government must exercise the greatest possible care, especially when it comes to administrative justice, because the government itself is a party to it. I do not think that the government has shown enough of this to date. Mr. Chairman. I'll close up and see you looking relieved. In my view, there is now an inadequate compromise. It is a half-baked solution where we really have to ask ourselves what kind of problem we have been solving, but where the possibility of a complete integration of administrative justice into the judiciary has been definitively lost. The government mentions a lot of arguments for something fundamental: the establishment of our justice in our rule of law. I believe that continuing along this path is also a major risk, I say to my fellow Members. The government writes, in my view, on page 1 of the explanatory memorandum: the legislative proposal envisages a definitive and future-proof design of the highest administrative jurisdiction. So it's a terminal station! Mr. Chairman. The establishment and organisation of the system of justice is of great importance to our rule of law, but let us now please do justice to the rule of law and state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are debating tonight is exceptionally welcome in the lack of media attention. At first sight, this subject does not directly affect the man in the street. Reorganisation of administrative justice, division of the Council of State: the average Dutchman is really not awake. That's a good thing. But as long as the government took to work out this paragraph of the coalition agreement, that would have resulted in quite a few sleepless nights if it were. I understand that little attention somewhere. Our rule of law and everything that comes with it is gradually taking for granted in our democracy, but justice is a fragile good. So is the rule of law. They deserve constant attention and protection. So it's not just a technical bill. It affects the fundamentals of our state system on a number of points, because it is about administrative law. Administrative law must protect citizens and businesses from the public authorities. I see all kinds of people in the public gallery running away, but it's gonna be fun. It's about the government to which people leave everything and which has great influence on their lives. It is a question of whether or not there is a wind farm in the backyard, whether or not there is a social assistance allowance or for companies which call rates they are entitled to charge and whether or not they are authorised to merge. Control of the exercise of public powers is entrusted to the administrative judge. There are quite a few of them at most. We have the Council of State when it comes to spatial planning and foreign law, for example, the Board of Appeal for Industry on competition issues, the Central Board of Appeal on social security and civil servants' law, and then the Supreme Court also deals with tax matters. It is not clear and the danger of contradictory statements lies in the lurch. This bill is already a small step on a long road towards the concentration of administrative justice requested by D66. The explanatory memorandum also states that it aims at a concentration of administrative jurisdiction. But there's been a lot of criticism. My colleague from the SP has already made this very clear. All players in the legal field point out that this bill is neither meat nor fish and in any case does not solve the problems sufficiently. Discussion about how to do that is long overdue. I believe that, as may have been apparent, this debate is mainly about two problems. First of all, it deals with the position of the supreme administrative judge in our legal system, the Council of State, and secondly with the fragmentation of that administrative law. I'll start with the Council of State. He's had a double task for years. My colleague from the SP has already mentioned it. The Council is not only a legislative adviser, but also applies the law as a judge. That has grown historically. If you had to redesign that system today, this model would probably not be on the drawing board, at least not for D66. Such a mix of tasks is badly tolerated with the trias politicians and Article 6 of the ECHR. A functional separation between these two tasks is therefore necessary. On paper it is still there, but the appearance of mixing remains and that does not improve people's confidence in the independence of justice. It can also be read in the explanatory memorandum that this confidence of people in the independence of justice is so important. D66, with the majority of the Chamber, has therefore called for the functional separation between the consultative task and the judicial task to be institutionally anchored and made visible. Also in the First Chamber this was called for by the English motion. In this coalition agreement, I believe that the coalition parties had made an agreement on this. Does this bill solve that problem now? I dare doubt it. A point of profit is that double nominations will not happen anymore. The double caps disappear. State Councils are therefore no longer in both sections, but only in one section. But those judges and advisers remain so-called front door dividers. They stay in the same building and in the same organization. The final step is not to take the final step in bringing administrative justice all the way to where it belongs, to the ordinary judiciary. This would have major organisational, legal and substantive advantages. The legislative proposal therefore misses an opportunity for even more synergies in the view of D66. Integration of administrative justice into the ordinary judiciary could make legal protection in administrative law simpler, more logical and more accessible. That brings me to the second problem that this bill should solve, namely the fragmentation. Everyone agrees that administrative justice is too fragmented at the moment. For several reasons, this situation is undesirable, not only because the necessary legal unit and uniformity of justice are lacking. All kinds of solutions need to be found. There is a co-ordination agreement between the Supreme Court and the Council of State, and if I understand correctly, there will be another bill, which looks at a courtroom. This proposal provides a solution in order to simplify and concentrate, instead of leaving the four existing administrative judges with two: the Supreme Court and the Council of State. This leads us in the right direction, but D66 is not happy with the way in which that happens and with the route and detour that the cabinet takes. In my view, the final destination is not clear from this legislative proposal. Does the administration's decision still remain with the Council of State in the long run or not? I would like to have a response from the Minister. When I get back to that fragmentation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u8	Before proceeding with the question of fragmentation, I give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u9	I am looking forward to D66's position on the full integration of administrative justice into the judicial column. Is there a need for a constitutional change or can we do it without it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u10	I don't think that's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u11	Jurisdiction is also conferred on the Council of State. At the moment when you want to remove it completely, there are authorities and other people think differently about it, saying: this cannot be done without amending the Constitution. If we follow that reading, is D66 in favour of this step, or do you say, at second reading, let us do so by a two-thirds majority and so on, with all the major risks of halfway beaches?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u12	At the moment, we are talking about the legislative proposal aimed at abolishing two administrative colleges. That is what my point is made, in the sense that this can be done very well by formal law. I come back to the subject of fragmentation and to the choice of removing those two lectures that I was just talking about. Only one of them is left within the judiciary. This choice is detrimental to the desired concentration of administrative jurisdiction. One college, the Central Board of Appeal, goes to the judiciary, but the other, the Board of Appeal for Business, just leaves the ordinary judiciary and moves to the Council of State. I do not really understand that sidestep and would ask the Minister to explain it to me. Why doesn't the Business Appeals Board just remain in the judiciary, where it is at a somewhat greater distance from the government? My colleague from the SP has just made it clear that this is necessary. I agree with his remarks. Wouldn't the legal unit and legal certainty be right in merging the Board of Appeal for Industry with the Central Board of Appeal? At least keep it together. To this end, the SP together with D66 is tabling an amendment to accommodate all judges of both colleges in a single administrative court. In this way, institutional independence, legal unit and clarity are better guaranteed. This is also the view of a large number of players from the legal field. They are now in the public gallery. Another problem arises with the Central Appeals Board. You could solve that problem by creating a single administrative court. After all, the cases and the specialised judges of the Central Board of Appeal are spread in four courts in the government proposal. That is an undesirable movement, because it is better to keep the knowledge and expertise together. This also offers the best guarantees for legal unit and legal certainty in administrative law. Keeping cases together and expertise of the judges of the Central Appeals Board is therefore preferable. It can also be cheaper, as the SP explained, if you put them together in one court instead of four courts. D66 therefore proposes, once again with the SP, a second amendment to achieve this. We do so in the event that the Chamber decides not to place the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Industry in one court. At least the Central Board of Appeal should stay together with all cases and judges in one court. In addition to the fragmentation, our second objection is the legal status of the judges of the Board of Appeal for business. I do not want to go into the question of which matters are best suited to which college. I think the Council of State is quite capable of doing the business of the College of Appeal well. With the delegation model, it might even be possible to do so more quickly. However, that does not mean that the same speed and quality would not be guaranteed in the one administrative court that favours D66 and the SP. I shall then come to the question of the legal position. That is an important point, because the removal of two judicial colleges is a rather unique and far-reaching operation. Perhaps it does not require a change to the Constitution, I say to the PvdA, but it does affect the relationship between the three state powers. That's why you need to look at the Constitution again. As a guarantee of their independence, judges are appointed to a particular court for life. Article 117 of the Constitution provides that judges may be dismissed only at their own request or at retirement or if the law so provides, by a court belonging to the judiciary, and that is the Supreme Court. It has already been mentioned: NRC Handelsblad wrote yesterday that the cabinet should not mess with counsellors. Judges could be removed from their cases by this reorganisation. Whether that happens, we all cannot see at the moment. It has indeed been proposed to create the possibility for judges simply to settle pending cases as a substitute judge at another court when it comes to the Central Council. The same provision would be made for the judges of the College of Appeal, but the legal aspects themselves do not intend to be settled until the introduction law. The Council of State has just said that it should be in this law. That was a long time ago. As early as January 2016, the report of the first written examination found that this should be done in the law itself as soon as possible. These legal aspects are fundamental constitutional guarantees and the judges of the CBb have been appointed as counsellors in that college. As long as the law does not provide for a provision, the abolition of the CBB will in fact result in the dismissal of those judges. Not only have these judges themselves pointed this out, but also the Dutch Association for Justice, the Council for Justice and, as I said earlier, the Council of State, which has recommended that at least the main lines of those legal consequences should be included in this legislative proposal. So that still hasn't happened. With this law alone, the Court does not yet know whether this legal position will be properly regulated. I would ask the Minister if we are not in favour of the introduction law if it turns out that there is still some fuss about the transition of the CBb judges. We must prevent this, certainly because it is a court of law which has to take decisions as the highest administrative judge in areas sensitive to the government. I refer to the regulation of tariffs in the telecoms market, energy, health care, public transport, public investment and the Competition Act. We are not talking about expertise that is in danger of being lost. The omens are not favourable when it comes to legal status. I refer to the debate on judges who may or may not move to the Council of State. This reorganisation involves 350 employees. Then it is not possible that a handful of specialised top-level judges should be left behind eight judges? How's the Minister gonna fix this? Is he prepared to settle the legal position of all employees of the College of Occupation for Industry in this proposal? Or is he willing to say that this is well regulated for all employees in the introduction law? I'm rounding up. Making administrative law more transparent for the judge is essential for D66. People are not worried about it, but let us please prevent them from waking up in a maze of judges once they have to go to the administrative court. In view of this, I have tabled two amendments together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I look forward to the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is an unspeakable honour and an extraordinary pleasure for me to speak on this issue this evening on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Random, that was the word that came to mind when I went through the file. It is a word that you want to quickly forget about in relation to the case law, especially when it comes to the highest administrative judgment. We are talking about the case law of independent and impartial judges. Then why the word "random"? First of all, because we believe that this proposal is a rabbit from the top hat. For that you must have a lot of finger speed and agility, but it is inimitable. During the negotiations in 2012 on the government agreement, more or less out of nothing, it was decided that the establishment of the Supreme Administrative Court should change. To the why it remains conjecture for us to this day. Maybe others are deeper into matter. I would like to hear that, because this evening there will be an answer to the question as to why this proposal is on the table. No one denies that administrative justice must be of high quality. No one is opposed to the proper and efficient regulation of justice. No one is opposed to keeping things against the light and ensuring future-proof design. If you choose these kinds of principles, it must be clear that the legislative proposal will really be an improvement. But what problems have been identified? In fact, no one complains about the quality of the rulings of the Administrative Court of the Council of State, of the Central Board of Appeal and of the Board of Appeal for Business. A lack of quality is therefore not the background. Here's what we see. The amendment of the law does not aim to improve quality, as it is fine. The amendment of the law does not seek to make a cut, which is not in addition to that. The legislative amendment also does not contain a proper analysis of the points on which the system is not future-proof. In short, a pressing question: what is the concrete purpose of this bill? In concrete terms, the government proposes to abolish the Board of Appeal for Business and the Central Appeals Board. The CBB cases then go to the Council of State and the CRVB cases go to the courts. Colleagues have already explained this. However, it is not clear why these two lectures should be closed. It seems as if there is a feeling that it has to be different from a reasoned and analytically balanced proposal, of which you say that there is a point, a sensible decision. We have the impression that we are running the risk of eliminating the CRvB and the CBb and spreading their tasks across more courts leading to quality losses rather than quality gains. Where you would expect a justification for this proposal, it could do the opposite. There could also be a loss in speed and right unit. What's really going to be solved? In the second place, the ideas on the further separation between advice and administrative justice at the Council of State also show that they are arbitrary. Only six years ago, the Council of State Act was amended. In 2010, the government said about the possibility of double nominations at the Council of State that this could lead to "I quote literally from the reply to the 2010 proposal "a mutual fertilization and that could lead to a higher quality of advice on legislation as well as on administrative justice. The court can take advantage of its experience as an advisor in the application of legislation and can use the insights it obtains in the practice of the case-law, for example on the implementation and feasibility of legislation, in advising." The government also argued at the time that a certain degree of overlap between the two sections of the Board was thus made important for the unity of the Council of State. This would also be of interest if we had a literal quote "for the quality of legislation, administrative justice and the public administration itself, but also has an impact on the volume of advice." In addition, I would like to quote once again 'the exclusion of double appointments could lead to the need to use part-time appointments in the Advisory Section to a large extent. This creates risks for the consistency of the college and the consistency of the advice and problems for the appointment of the advisory body itself." What's the government saying now? I quote from a new reply: "On that last point, the government considers the amendment of the Council of State Act in 2010 to limit, inter alia, the number of double nominations to a maximum of 10, insufficient. We do not consider that an evaluation of this legislative amendment is necessary in order to arrive at that conclusion (...). It is not difficult to establish that even after the amendment of the Council of State Act, some aspects of the system still need to be improved." A serious question: can't deal with legislation like this? We don't need to have an evaluation of that legislation, because we all see it, don't we? Then let's just hang in a big gray cloud what we're actually seeing. Maybe it's a glass ball some people own. In any case, the SGP Group does not have it. You can't be serious about legislation like that, can you? In the light of the extensive discussions in the previous legislative proposal, the SGP considers a substantive argument to be absolutely essential and lacking. At the very least, it should be pointed out that the benefits mentioned in 2010 did not occur in practice, why the aforementioned benefit of the double appointments would have caused problems, or why the quality was ultimately too low? The government rightly points out that citizens have a high level of confidence in the independence of administrative justice. The argument that citizens' confidence would demand this split is therefore not really logical, because there is such confidence. In any case, therefore, it will have to be clear how the unity of the Council of State remains guaranteed. Can the government clarify how it is not possible to take action on these consequences? I'd like to zoom in on the CRvB right now. Thirdly, we see the arbitrariness in allocating the tasks of the CRvB. The SGP could have presented itself with an approach in which, for example, the whole of the administrative justice system would have been dealt with by the Council of State. Then there would have been a certain logic. Then the objective of achieving a good, efficient administrative law column would have been a good argument. Then the clarity of the case law would also have increased. But now the government chooses to split the tasks of the CRvB and spread them over four courts. This inevitably promotes fragmentation rather than legal unity. Why didn't the government choose to just let the CRvB exist? There is a need for specialization in many areas. But in this area of social security and civil service law, with a substantial number of about 8,700 cases, the government is going to take the specialization out of it. Again, I ask the question: why? In addition, a third body is now being added to the CRvB cases. Of course, one highest authority makes sense, but this means that, with the objection phase, a case is looked at four times. That is a very extensive journey. Are you sure this is the right thing to do? Is this a consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u14	I have a brief question to the spokesman for the Christian Union, who is also the spokesman for the SGP tonight. The criticism is severe. It's about randomness. If you don't want anything in the judiciary, of course it's random. It is also about loss of quality and about risks to the legal unit. If I heard the spokesperson of the SGP and the Christian Union speaking in this way tonight, I would think that he would support the amendments tabled by the SP, D66 and GroenLinks. Those amendments aim to do exactly what Mr Bishop asks. We say, "Keep that quality, don't shatter it over the four courts and take care of legal unit." That is exactly what the amendments aim to do. Can I hear a response from Mr Bishop on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u15	Sure. Those amendments actually presuppose the acceptance of a change in that structure. The SGP isn't that far. The SGP, and therefore also the Christian Union, with a broad smile, still needs to be convinced of the need for this restructuring. So we're not there yet. Or perhaps I did not properly interpret Mr Van Nispen's amendments. I haven't looked very closely at it yet. At least this is my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u16	I am also strongly critical of the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u17	Yeah, I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u18	My position would be that if you think it is not right to shatter the Central Board of Appeal and also to abolish the Board of Appeal for business, you must save what is to be saved. Then you should say: let us at least ensure that the proposal, which you may or may not be in favour of, preserves the quality and legal unit. From this point of view, the amendments have been made. I would ask Mr Bishop and the Christian Union to look at it with that look.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yeah, that's clear. But my impression is correct. My main aim is to ask the government to first convince us of the need for this reshuffling. If that does not work, I would like to see amendments such as those tabled by Mr Van Nispen cut. Then we will be looking at this very clearly from that perspective. Fourthly, there seems to be arbitrariness in the transfer of personnel. Then the SGP mainly looks at the CBb. Only the senior councillors are going to the Council of State. Colleagues have also pointed this out. The SGP wonders to what extent it is possible to transfer all counsellors so that they follow their cases. That is all the more true now that the government itself has indicated that they can be appointed as a state council in extraordinary service. This is in line with comments made by colleagues in the past. In short, neither the SGP nor the Christian Union has been able to convince the government's proposal. But of course, as we are, we are happy to listen to the arguments of the government. Who knows what miracles are still going on in this room tonight? We do not exclude them, but then it also carries the character of a real miracle. We are very interested in the reaction of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u20	We wait for those miracles. I give the floor to Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. Suppose you're an administrative attorney, and you're assisting a client. That client has a dispute with any governing body, let's say the National Road Traffic Agency. In court, you make an ardent argument, but unfortunately, the court is wronging your client. You do read sufficient inconsistencies in the verdict and advise your client to appeal. What are the requirements for such an appeal that may be made to the highest administrative judge? Does it make any difference to the client, the citizen, what authority he's going to go to? Not in principle. As long as his case is dealt with quickly and there is good quality law. The most important thing, of course, is that the court of appeal is independent. Suppose the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State is the designated judge. Three state councils make a ruling. One of them has been Minister in the past. You will find that at the time, the State Council in question was responsible as a minister for introducing the legislation that is under discussion in your client's case. At the time, as a minister, the State Council was responsible not only for the introduction of the rules, but also for their enforcement. In addition, it appears that the State Council regularly advises on related legislation, since the State Council in question is also in the Advisory Section of the Council of State. It is likely that you will be surprised that the State Council itself believes that it is able to judge perfectly the legality of legislation introduced by that State Council as a minister at the time. Even after repeated questions, the State Council is not prepared to change. Nor do the other two State Councils see any conflict of interest and are it okay if the State Council stays on board to judge in this case. After consulting your client, you decide to submit a objection request. A writ room is being set up to sit. The writ chamber decides to hold a further hearing. Only at the very last moment does the state council, former minister, withdraw. Mr President, you may think that the situation I have just outlined cannot be avoided in the Netherlands and that I used a hypothetical example to start my term. I must disappoint you. This case took place in 2015 with a former Minister of Justice as a leading example. This year, the Netherlands spends about 200 million euros, including developing the rule of law and strengthening the legitimacy of democratic structures, but not in the Netherlands but in developing countries. This could give the impression that there is nothing more to improve in the legal field in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, everyone must be able to assume that justice is independent. But this cannot always be the case with the highest administrative judge in our country, or there may be the impression that this would not be the case, as long as the advisory task and the judicial task are not separated from each other. It cannot be explained that a state council first advises on a law to later judge it as the supreme administrative judge. For this reason, I tabled a motion in 2011 in the House of Commons. It has already been referred to as my first in this House, in which the government was asked to place the judicial task of the Council of State outside the Council of State. That motion was adopted by a large majority. Tonight we are discussing the proposal to amend the Law on the Council of State, the General Administrative Law Act, the Law on the Judicial Organisation and some other laws relating to the separation of tasks within the Council of State and the lifting of the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Business, almost five years after the adoption of that motion. Now I understand that a High College of State that was founded in 1531 is not cut in half from yesterday to today. However, I think it is a long time to take five years not to carry out a motion. The government chooses to do so because, I quote, the principle is that legislative advisory and judicial functions should not be included in a body is not endorsed by the government. It's possible. Would that also be part of the Dutch state law curriculum that we give in the Third World? Let's get down to Does this mean that the draft law before us does not improve the organisation of the Council of State and proposes the highest administrative jurisdiction? No. Indisputably, both tasks of the Council of State within the Council are better separated from each other. The so-called "double nominations" whereby state councils can be members of both the Advisory Section and the Administrative Court Division are made impossible. This is an important step forward, which could not be made with the previous amendment of the Council of State Act. However, the possibility of amending an appointment in the interim remains. The VVD Group would like to know from the cabinet whether this means that a State Council may be a member of the Section for Advice, then may be a member of the Administrative Court Division for a while and then go on to advise again. This seems to be contrary to the intention of better separating tasks. It is important now that the government sees the removal of the fourth paragraph of Article 42 of the Act on the Council of State, which provides for an apology for the lengthy nomination, because this is a quote from the law.... that a member of the Administrative Court Division who has been involved in the preparation of an opinion from the Council does not take part in the discussion of a dispute on a question of law to which that opinion related. Where state councils can switch between departments, the possibility remains which Article 42 (4) is intended to avoid. Is the government prepared to maintain this article member? It is stipulated that the Vice-President may and can not intervene in any way in the Administrative Court Department. In future, the president of that section will be in charge of the judicial task and the state councils that will judge, in short, a clear separation of tasks and powers. However, the government proposes that the Chairman of the Administrative Court Division remain members of the Constitutional Council. The VVD Group would like to know why it was not chosen to delete Article 30a (4) of the Council of State Act, which provides that the Chairman of the Administrative Court Division is automatically a member of the Constitutional Council. As I read the law now, other state councils from the Administrative Department can also become members of the Constitutional Council. That doesn't help to separate the two departments. The VVD Group would therefore like the government to make a provision that makes this impossible. Furthermore, both internally and externally, it will have to be made more visible that the two sections of the Council have different tasks and responsibilities. I would like to hear from the ministers how they see it and whether they have already entered into consultation with the two sections on this matter. The Government considers that this proposal provides for a future-proof structure of the highest administrative jurisdiction, in such a way that it is not reasonable to make further changes to the organisation in the short term. It could be. However, the VVD Group sees this differently. In the opinion of the VVD Group, the separation of tasks within the Council of State has not yet been completed with this proposal. On the contrary. The VVD Group sees the proposal as an important step towards the desire expressed in the 2011 motion. It has been said before: with this bill, the government is lifting both the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Business. That is a far-reaching decision, not only for the administrative landscape in our country, but above all for the people who work at these two organisations. The majority will be able to continue his work within the Administrative Court of the Council of State or within one of the courts. Where that cannot be done, I expect the government to find a decent and quick solution. I think that most of us will recognize that administrative law in our country, too, has been said earlier, with as many as four high-ranking judges, is not always clear for those seeking justice. Reducing the number of senior judges from four to two is therefore a good thing in the opinion of the VVD Group. Article XXXIV of the bill states that different parts of the bill may enter into force at different times. Can the Government confirm that there is no need to wait for the introduction law to bring into force the part of the bill which envisages the division of tasks within the Council of State? Speaking of the introduction law, it is important that it be submitted quickly to the Chamber. In the letter of 5 September last, the government states that it intends to adopt the Commission's proposals on administrative law by making them part of the implementing law to be submitted. However, the government also intends to consult the introduction law. I don't think that's necessary. There has been a very extensive consultation on the bill that we are discussing today. The basic choices are ahead of us today. The introduction law concerns the legal effects of the present proposal and the legal unit. The legal unit has been discussed in detail. The government also set up the Administrative Law Committee, in which the two remaining Supreme Administrative Courts were represented. Also in view of the interests of the staff and judges of the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Business, who are entitled to know in the short term where they stand, the VVD Group urges the government to send the implementation law to the Chamber without internet consultation this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u22	I'll come back to that point of the eight counselors. The VVD says: loosen that neatly and, I know more what the second term wasn't,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u23	Just and fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u24	Is "net" also understood in line with the rule of law, principles of law and such things? I assume that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u25	Of course. I meant above all that it is very important for the people who belong to this group. At the same time, I do not think it is up to this Chamber to prescribe to the cabinet at this level how it should do that. I rely on the reasonableness, speed and cleanliness of the cabinet to resolve this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u26	I would, of course, like to share that confidence, but Mr Taverne must forgive me for asking a question about it, because I do not think it is clear yet. Mr Taverne can say here that it is not up to the Chamber to find anything about the position of those eight counsellors, but I think it has, because we know what will happen if we do not. Then those eight counsellors won't go along with it. As a result, it has become a matter for the Chamber, no matter how you turn it or turn it, whether you like it or not. So what does he mean by "a neat and quick solution"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u27	I understand Mr Van Nispen's question very well. I cannot fail to emphasise once again the importance of finding a solution to this problem. I just meant to say that, in view of my view of what we are doing in this Chamber, I find it complicated to prescribe to the cabinet at this level how I would have liked to have had it. I cannot imagine that such a relatively small group of people will not find a workable solution, but I do not know the individual cases. I do not want to know them either, because I do not think that this is in line with my position in this legislative process. I do have sufficient confidence in this and I will keep a close eye on that with Mr Van Nispen. I think it is too early at this stage to say exactly what it should look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u28	All right, but if we decide on this law and the CBb is lifted and those matters go to the Council of State, Mr Taverne believes that that solution could also be that those eight counsellors would go along nicely. In the VVD's view, that might also be a neat, quick solution, I think. Finally, I have a second question. The failure to consult the law of introduction cannot mean that the court union NVvR is not involved? I hope that is not what Mr Taverne means by saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u29	No, in the sense that I specifically refer to internet consultation. I would find it strange if we were to have an Internet consultation round in an introduction law, if only because of the more than 700 legislative proposals using the possibility of internet consultation, it was only twice an introduction law, so we also have the statistics, I will say. Since these are matters of law, I naturally assume that the NVvR will be consulted, but I do not think that will be necessary in an internet consultation. I imagine this is happening in a more intimate way. Again, I assume that all directions for resolution will be explored. I'm not gonna give you any preference for one or the other. I trust it will be well arranged. If it all turns out to be different, then I'm sure we'll meet again, one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u30	I agree with Mr Taverne that it is difficult to regulate the legal status of judicial officials in this Chamber. I think so, but does Mr Taverne agree with me that, in this case, the legal guarantees are enshrined in Article 117 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yes, in the sense that the Constitution does provide for a lifelong appointment for judges, but I do not read in the Constitution that we in this Chamber should ultimately decide on the position of eight individual judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u32	The fourth paragraph of Article 117 states that a judge can only be dismissed, and that is all to ensure his independence in three cases: a. at his own request, but that is not what we are talking about here; b. at the time the retirement age approaches, so when he turns 70; and c. at the time of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u33	I do not have the article verbatim in my head, but I am sure Mr Swinkels, who himself was part of the judiciary, will have it. That's right. Again, it is a very important problem. It has to be solved. I cannot imagine that, in the event of such an important recast of the Supreme Administrative Court, this part cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of all. That is why, on behalf of the VVD Group, I have asked the two ministers here to find a workable modality for that. I would like to be informed of this and I assume that this will also work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u34	Would you not argue with me that this should be done by this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u35	No, because that would shut the door for possible other directions. I wouldn't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. Oh, those are the minutes that tick away. I looked at my bell. Time went down in a hurry. The minutes went as seconds. An important law is on the table tonight for the initiates. Not for the vast majority of the Netherlands. We in this Chamber know that the highest administrative courts, the highest administrative courts, make a great deal of difference in practice for a lot of people. Whether you're a refugee, bed, bath and bread is a good example or a highway is being built, whether or not it's an environmental one: this is incredibly important. It also matters which administrative judge gets the case. Right now, we have four top executives. If you count the RSJ, that's five. It goes back to two or three. That seems to me to be a good thing. It is a good thing because the unity of administrative law is improved and a good thing because the two, the Central Board of Appeal and the CBb, were relatively small. The second thing we settle is a further split, after 2010, within the Council of State. On the one hand, it is about advice and on the other, it is about legislation. In short, this law does, contrary to what some colleagues say, a number of steps in the right direction. I'm happy with that. Seven measures are taken with regard to this further division of the Council of State. At least five are legal and two are extra-legal. In itself, they are good measures. However, I was sensitive to the points made by Mr Taverne to see whether it should not be more explicit in some respects. However, I am also curious to hear the answer from the cabinet. I think it is extremely important that we get a little more uniformity in administrative law. That's the other point. That is important because, if this law is passed, only two supreme judges will be explaining the same law. The question remains what happens if the two do so differently. That's not exactly what we're talking about tonight. At least this is better than four. I also think it is important that administrative law should be more widely embedded in other jurisdictions. This is particularly the case with the Supreme Court. I myself have gained experience in the combination of jurisdictions in the Caribbean parts of the Netherlands. There I have really gained the conviction that it is very good to look not only from that administrative point of view, but also from that point of view to integrate civil law and sometimes even criminal law. There are a lot of underlying principles that touch each other. If the highest judge has that insight and shares that knowledge, I think that benefits the law in the broad sense. More practically, I still have a few questions and comments on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u37	As Mr Recourt pauses, I would like to ask a question. What he's saying, I'm a little surprised. He refers to his experience in the Caribbean, where the highest judge actually covers all jurisdictions: civil law, criminal law, etc. At present, the interlinkage between different jurisdictions is increasing. I do not really understand why Mr Recourt does not agree with the SP, with me and perhaps with Mr Taverne that we should place this case law as much as possible in the judiciary in which you find all those jurisdictions represented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u38	I was referring to my own experience as a judge there. The highest judge is also split on the Caribbean. On the one hand, there's the Supreme Court. On the other hand, although there is no Administrative Court section, it is being flown as a sort of local supreme judge, but that aside. So that split is still on the agenda there too. Like Mrs Swinkels, I have also thought about the possibility of placing everything in one proper judicial column, with the High Council at the top and three jurisdictions below that. However, politics is about what is feasible. What is before us today is feasible because we do not need a constitutional change now. You can discuss whether you don't need it otherwise, but you have to get into that debate and you have to be able to win it. Furthermore, it is a step forward. The cabinet says "now it's ready." It will be ready for a while, but this cabinet is not about the next Cabinets and about the next cabinet negotiations. We are taking a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u39	I believe I understand that there is no need for a constitutional change in matters which have now been entrusted to the Court of Justice of the Council of State. It is something else when it comes to administrative disputes in the old sense, between public bodies. That is something else, but that is not what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u40	There is a conflict of opinion, not only in politics, but also in science, on the interpretation to be given to the relevant constitutional article. The allocation of jurisdiction to the Supreme Court in the Constitution as regards case-law is subject to a provision of jurisdiction. One school says that you can also say that you can't. The other school says that this provision means that you cannot ride all the case law out of the Council of State without a constitutional change, because then that article becomes meaningful. I repeat that politics is about what is feasible. I understand that my colleagues want to go a step further. I've had that thought, too, but I count my blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u41	If I understand correctly, therefore, the Labour Party is still in favour of placing all administrative decisions with the ordinary judiciary. Is Mr Recourt happy with this result after the adoption of a Parliamentary motion in 2011 which was very clear? It states that judicial duties must be removed from the Council of State. There is also a coalition agreement. If you have not been at the negotiating table and therefore do not know at all what has happened and what dark forces may have come loose and then simply read the coalition agreement, then is that very clear? Is Mr Recourt proud of what has been achieved? Can he explain how that all happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u42	Not only in politics, but also outside, the discussion is about whether you should have two top executives, a twin peak model, or one. With Mr Taverne's 2011 motion, the PvdA has expressed the view that you should only have one. This spokesperson believes that there is still a good argument for this, but that does not mean that the Labour Party does not discuss what is best now. That's what I'm saying first. The coalition agreement states: "The Council of State is divided into a legal part and an advisory part. The Court of Justice shall be merged with the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Business.' We're not exactly gonna do that. The Central Board of Appeal is not merged with the Court of Justice of the Council of State. I must say that I am very happy about that, because I think it is quite right that we should bring it to justice. Then there is a more exhaustive test than the case law section of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u43	You can also say that the judicial part should be merged with the Central Board of Appeal (CRvB) and the Board of Appeal for Business (CBb). If you do not put that at all with the Council of State, then that is also perfectly in line with the government agreement. So you can reason the other way too. I ask the following question, of course. If you are happy with the steps in the right direction regarding reform within the Council of State, why is it necessary to shatter and also to remove the Central Appeals Council? If you are going to take the step to abolish the CBb, why do these matters have to be dealt with by the Council of State? Why can they not be placed with the Central Board of Appeal, as we propose by amendment, among other things? Surely that would be a much better step towards, for example, a court of administrative law or towards as much administrative law as possible within the ordinary judiciary? Surely that would be much more close to the starting point that Mr Recourt still claims to have, despite the struggle within the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u44	Again, at least that step has already been taken in the right direction for the Central Appeals Council. Moreover, I think it is particularly appropriate for two-party disputes. I think they fit in well with the justice system. The Administrative Court of the Council of State often has multiple party disputes, as well as the CoB. I think that's a decent distribution. That is actually my answer; I have nothing more to say about it. I do agree with Mr Van Nispen and other speakers on the unity of the Central Board of Appeal. I find fragmentation undesirable. How do I find it a little more difficult? The SP and D66 amendments fill that in very precisely and closely. I do not need that if we can record today that this fragmentation will not happen, but there are several ways of shaping it. I don't want the House of Representatives sitting on the driver's seat. I can imagine a separate fifth court. You can also hang this on an existing court, for example the Hof in Den Bosch, with Utrecht as a seat. That's just how you keep it going. It may then be possible to differentiate between civil service and social security matters. But fragmentation is undesirable. I would like to hear from the cabinet that we can see this evening that we share that point of departure. This brings me to my second point: I think it is extremely important that we give as much clarity as possible tonight, so that people know where they stand and directors can start the real implementation and organisation, and so we do not have to wait a long time for the implementing law to be given certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u45	I really did not have the pleasure of wrestling through that whole legal technique and writing an amendment of six pages to ensure that this Central Board of Appeal is not shattered. I think it's fine if the government makes a good proposal. But now we're discussing the bill before us. My fear is that if we finish this tonight and vote on it on Tuesday, which at least was the President's planning...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u46	That's definitely the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u47	...then I think we're gonna vote to split those cases over all those courts. Is Mr Recourt saying that this is not the way to do it? And can we therefore not vote on this law now, because the quality of the Central Appeals Council, in the interests of the legal unit but also in the interests of the quality of justice, must remain together? Do I understand Mr Recourt correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u48	I agree with you on that last point. I'm asking the Cabinet if there's a need for a change of law. If that is the case, it must be done; I fully agree with you. This is a bit of an interpretation of the articles. There is already some specialization within the current legal framework within the case law. So maybe it's just possible. But if this law were to oblige the Central Board of Appeal to chop into four pieces, that would not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u49	I think that's good news. Let us count tonight's blessings. If it is up to the PvdA Group and many other groups, then the Central Board of Appeal simply stays together. Could Mr Recourt's seat be in Utrecht, as is currently the case? Is that one of the possibilities he would like to ask the cabinet, for example, to use just one banal argument to save costs of 11 million euros in housing costs that both courts would have to incur differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u50	Once again, I do not think that we in the Chamber should ultimately decide at a detailed level on how to do it. We must set the standard in the Chamber. That standard is no fragmentation. I have given a number of examples of how. Moreover, I can imagine that civil service law and social security law are two separate elements; but I also agree with leaving them together. In itself, that has nothing to do with a fragmentation of knowledge. Above all, I want to set the standard tonight: this should not be cut into four pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr Recourt called it undesirable Mr Van Nispen has already said something about it. But how heavy is that "unwanted"? Is he saying that it's a little undesirable, that he sees that fragmentation has no added value, just like the compromise that actually exists with this law? How much does he attach to the impatience of this fragmentation to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u52	I think I've already answered that. If that means cutting the Central Appeals Board into four pieces, that is not acceptable. Several forms of organisation are possible. I'll leave that to the Cabinet, but that fragmentation is not acceptable. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mrs. Van Nispen. Oh, you were in the middle of a debate with Mr Van Nispen. Mrs. Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u54	We sometimes operate as a two-unit, so I understand your mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u55	Tonight is certainly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you for the compliment. I have a question for Mr Recourt about the further design of the central profession in a new jacket, but as a whole. There are of course several specialized rooms at different courts. The court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden has, of course, the tbs, also has a separate military chamber and we also know the Entrepreneurship Chamber at the Court of Amsterdam. Does Mr Recourt think of such a thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u57	That was my answer to a question from Mr Van Nispen as to how far it is possible to hold Utrecht as a seat or to choose another solution within the current legal framework. At that time, I was thinking of the existing specializations that you are now referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u58	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u59	In the meantime, I have already said a lot of my text in the interruptions. I come to another point, which concerns clarity for the staff. I have already said that speed is important here, for the people themselves, who have been in uncertainty for far too long, and because of the practice, who wants to get to work quickly. It'll help if we can hit some picket posts tonight. We are voting on Tuesday, but if we already have a consensus here, perhaps it will only come on Tuesday, at least it will be clear how to proceed. It concerns the introduction law. Mr Taverne has already said something about this. I do not yet see the need for consultation and ask the cabinet to go into this further. A second element that can lead to a considerable delay is the question of what we are doing with these eight counsellors. I understand the rest of the staff isn't a problem. I have read the document in NRC and others share the view that the Cabinet would not respect the rule of law when those eight counsellors would not go to the Court of Justice of the Council of State. I can go a long way in that reasoning. You're appointed to a judge's college, and if that goes into another college, logic tells me that you're going into that other college. It gets a little harder when it comes to following your business. Firstly, this is already guaranteed by the cabinet, so that's good. Secondly, because of the way in which the Council of State operates, i.e. fewer judges and more support, including for those eight or others, the CBb, there will not be the work they already had. So they're gonna do another job anyway. I agree with Mr Taverne that it goes too far for the Chamber to go into legal, individual matters. This will be different at the time when legal principles are introduced. Then the Chamber must point out to the cabinet that this cannot be done. First of all, I assume that these eight people are spoken to, as we always do when there is something about the legal status and that we ask: what do you really want? Then we cannot take stock of what is actually the problem, not me, but the lectures that cover these people. I imagine the problem is even smaller than the eight. I assume that it will be dealt with properly, but I say a little more emphatically than Mr Taverne: within those legal limits. Whether it is very strict or it is about the starting point, I do not care very much. I think you should think in that line. Then you're left with a dilemma, because that means that we won't solve it directly tonight and that both the uncertainty for those people will last longer and there is a risk that the introduction law will take longer and there will therefore be uncertainty for a lot more people. I ask the cabinet whether it is prepared to do it differently than it is intended to do, namely that these eight go into the case-law. Will the cabinet be able to reach a solution in the near future? Again, I realize that this is not directly up to the cabinet, but to those two lectures. But the cabinet can, of course, enter into conversation. By the way, I also assume that these lectures will be listening in tonight. I have put all the questions in my text and in my replies to interrupts, and I have made all the comments that are to be made at the moment. I await the answer of the cabinet and then consider whether we should still move forward in the second term, whether we should support amendments or whatever. Once again, all with the aim of providing as much clarity as possible tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u60	Before you sit down, Mr Van Nispen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u61	I simply find that Mr Recourt's position on these eight counsellors is not yet clear to me. He might say, "I'm not gonna say more about it than I'm saying about it right now." He instructs the cabinet to settle it neatly and legally and says: maybe we won't get it all sorted out tonight. But I find that difficult. We are asked to vote for or against a law on Tuesday, when we know what the result of that law is if we are not going to be very clear. During the round table in the Lower House, the Council of State said in public: "It is not possible, there is no room for that eight counsellors. We have a very different relationship with a lot of support staff and less counsellors, so that doesn't fit." So if we in the Chamber do not send out a very clear signal that it fits within the legal limits if you choose to lift the CBb and place it with the Council of State, then so should those eight counsellors, then I fear that will not happen what Mr Recourt may want to do deep down in his heart, but will not say very clearly here. Can he respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u62	In my view, the actual legal position is the subject of the introduction law. So it's not going to be on tonight. Tonight is, of course, the time for us to discuss it. That is why I say: Cabinet, at least it should not be as it seems to be now, namely all eight, regardless of their wishes... I am so hesitant about this, because I find it really very uncomfortable to talk about eight individual matters. Because I don't know what these people want at all. And if I did, I wouldn't say it here in the plenary. I just want (a) to secure the rule of law and (b) to deal properly with these people. That is the background to my comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u63	I understand. Nor will the SP force anyone to work at the Council of State if that person would not want to. Let's be clear about that. I understand Mr Recourt at least as follows. He says, at least it shouldn't be the way it seems right now. This means that even those who do want to join their work should not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u64	If I understand correctly, the case law section's story is now: no, we don't. I find this difficult to reconcile with the principle that constitutionally the function of the college which is being abolished or which goes on in another college goes along with it. Those two are hard to rhyme with. I made that clear. So I am not going to say: all eight must now go along with coûte que coûte. That sounds like individual customization to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mr President, you see me hesitant, because, of course, I am largely in agreement with what has just been said by my colleague from the SP. Do I understand that Mr Recourt is actually saying: it should indeed be regulated by law, no matter how uncomfortable it is to talk about eight individual counsellors here? I'll share that with him. I fully agree with that. Does he think it is good enough if it is fully resolved in the introduction law? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u66	In fact, I think this is a matter of the introduction law. Technically, it is not even on this evening's agenda, so we still have time, although limited, to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u67	I have also heard you say that constitutional guarantees must be respected. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u68	Yes, I have added a nuance to that, because it is otherwise organized at the Council of State and so there are fewer counsellors or whatever the names of the judges are, and there is more support. There are too many counsellors of the CBb for the things that will be done in the future. That seems obvious to me. That doesn't change the fact that the starting point is that you're going along with your work. If your college disappears into another college, it's a normal course of events that your appointment to that college has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u69	Then you agree with me that the abolition of the Board of Appeal for Business means de facto dismissal as provided for in Article 177 (4) of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u70	I find that more difficult to draw that conclusion one-on-one. You can imagine it's not a resignation, but your appointment lives on in the college you went on in. But we are now having a difficult legal discussion which I do not think is very relevant to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has only one question this evening about the legislative proposal on the organisation of the highest administrative jurisdiction, which is: why? What problem are we looking for a solution for? Is this reorganisation necessary for the legal unit or for the quality of administrative justice? Or is there a half-baked compromise that does not have any substantial added value in relation to the existing system? First of all, I would like to comment on the separation of tasks within the Council of State. The CDA Group believes that understanding of the effects of legislation in practice is necessary for good advice on legislative proposals. It therefore considers a fruitful interaction between the two branches of the Council of State to be important, for example in the Council of State Knowledge Group. In view of the confidence citizens may have in the case-law of the Council of State, the main tasks were advisory and case-law split up in 2011. A member of the Administrative Court Division who has been involved in drawing up an opinion from the Council shall not take part in a dispute on a matter to which that opinion relates. This prevents any appearance of bias. The CDA Group therefore considers that further separation of tasks within the Council of State is unnecessary and that this is more a solution to a fictional problem. The CDA Group wants to assess the legislative proposal first of all with regard to whether it will improve the quality of administrative justice. In other words, is the judge better off with this? Is the reorganisation proposed by the cabinet necessary for the quality of administrative justice? We have reviewed the national survey Customer Rating case law 2014 showing that of the judges 90% are satisfied or very satisfied with the Central Board of Appeal. That rating was even higher than in 2011. More than 80% of those seeking justice are satisfied or very satisfied with the College of Occupation for Industry. In the European barometer, the Netherlands scores the highest of all Member States when it comes to trust in administrative justice: independence is about 80% and fair decision-making is well above 70%. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau concludes in the Citizen's Perspectives 2016 investigation that the case law is the only institution in which Dutch people have increased confidence over a long period of time. All the other institutions in our country are paying for confidence. It is very important that we take that in this Chamber today. Where are we today? What steps do we intend to take? Is it gonna get better for the guy looking for justice, or is it gonna get worse for the guy looking for justice? The independence and quality of the case law of the Central Board of Appeal and of the Board of Appeal for Industry are beyond doubt. The CDA Group is committed to maintaining the quality and expertise of the colleges concerned. The CDA Group fears that the transfer of the tasks of the Central Board of Appeal to the four courts will lead to fragmentation of knowledge, as has already been widely discussed, which will never improve quality. The specialist knowledge that the Central Board of Appeal has built up over the years must not be lost. In recent years, important public services in the social domain have been decentralised to the municipalities. The Central Board of Appeal plays an important role in the legal protection of citizens against overly rigorous municipal cuts. So it's about people, isn't it? It's touching people. As my colleague from D66 said, we are talking today about the legislative proposal on justice, but the impact does affect the people who are looking. At the Centrale Raad van Beroep, eight judges are now specialised in matters relating to the Social Support Act. Is it wise to spread them over the four courts at this time and to let them do other business as well? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The citizen who disagrees with a decision of the municipality in the context of the Wmo must first object to the municipality. He may then appeal to the court and finally appeal to the Centrale Raad van Beroep. If this bill becomes law, there will be the possibility of cassation at the Supreme Court. What does this mean in practice? How long will the citizen remain in uncertainty? How many administrative lawsuits does the Supreme Court get on its plate and can he handle it at all? Promotion of the legal unit is one of the principles of the government for the reorganisation of administrative justice. It is therefore surprising to the CDA Group that the promotion of the legal unit is not in the legislative proposal, but will only take shape in the introduction law. The Committee on Administrative Law, the Scheltema Committee, proposes that, in the case of important unitary questions, a five-member chamber of justice should be set up at the Supreme Court and at the Administrative Court of the Council of State, with cross-references. Apparently, there is still an important element missing from the legislative proposal as we are discussing it tonight. I'd like to get an explanation from the Minister. In what way has the existence of the various supreme administrative courts caused problems in recent years? Concrete examples would clarify the matter. Maybe the minister can reflect on that. The CDA Group has drawn attention to its support in the report. That's very important for such a change of law. If possible, there must be robust support for the legislative proposal before us. In the hearing, the Board of Appeal for Industry and the Central Board of Appeal critically commented on the legislative proposal. This is obvious, because their survival is at stake, but it is obviously about the substantive argument. I'll come to a conclusion. The Council for Justice and the Netherlands Association for Justice are also opposed to the proposal as it stands, while the Supreme Court is only moderately positive. The Dutch Association for Justice states that the current system has no urgent problem that needs to be resolved. The CDA Group would like to know from the Minister what the urgent problem is before we talk about a solution. Is he also very concerned about the porous support for this bill? An old Dutch saying is: moving costs bedstro. A reorganisation of the highest administrative jurisdiction brings with it organisational unrest and considerable costs. We are talking about 19 million in exceptional cases and 11 million in structural terms, year by year. For the CDA Group, the question is whether the benefits that the cabinet intends to obtain with this reorganisation outweighs this. Again, the Netherlands scores high in terms of trust in the quality and independence of administrative justice. Would it not be better to use energy in a reform that is really helpful to our citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u72	I would like to thank Members for their first contribution. The two rulers have requested a 15-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u73	I'm actually reopening the meeting just to suspend her immediately. The rulers have indicated that they need some time to prepare their response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u74	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. He himself will indicate which questions will be answered by the Minister of Security and Justice and whether this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for the willingness to deal with this bill today. I would suggest that we do the answer as follows. I will talk about the objective of the bill, the why, the Mieke Telkamp question: where and what. I will also talk about the Advisory Section. I will give the reaction of the cabinet to some of the proposals that have been discussed in the first term and which relate to the Council of State as an institution. After that, it is likely that most of the answers will be in the area of the establishment of the case law, the place of the Central Board of Appeal, the introduction law including the legal status aspect, as well as the subject matter of the unit of law and the eight judges discussed in detail by the Chamber in the first period. The bill we are discussing tonight implements the coalition agreement. I admit that this text can be read in different ways, and that might have been the intention of the authors of the coalition agreement. The intention is to divide the Council of State into a legal part and an advisory part, and to merge the legal part with the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Business. The ambiguity lies in the question of whether "splitting" within the Council of State is either splitting up the functionality or another solution, and the cabinet chooses the first of these two solutions. The background to the intention in the coalition agreement is the desire to concentrate administrative justice. That's what this bill does. This promotes the legal unit and clarity of the system of administrative justice. Of course, it is very important that the independence and impartiality of justice is guaranteed and that this is done in as simple and transparent a way as possible. That serves the confidence in justice. At the same time, the government's view is that the reorganisation should not go beyond what is strictly necessary. That is the background against which this bill must be read. The system of administrative justice is also made more transparent for citizens by transferring the jurisdiction of the Central Board of Appeal to the ordinary judiciary and from the Board of Appeal to the Administrative Court of the Council of State. I should like briefly to comment on the choice of maintaining the case law before the Council of State and on the measures proposed in this connection to further separate the advisory and judicial functions of the Council of State. I will answer the questions that have been put to me in the first place. After that, Mr van V and Mr J will discuss the other questions and proposals. I have already mentioned the ambiguity contained in the text of the coalition agreement and the opinion of the cabinet on the content of what it is intended to do. The cabinet does not consider it necessary or desirable to place the judicial role of the Council of State elsewhere in the light of the trust to be placed in the administrative court. The quality of the general administrative judgment of the Council of State as the supreme administrative judge is both substantive and procedural high. The Cabinet would like to preserve this, in accordance with the Apostle Paul: explore everything and preserve the good. The cabinet does not consider it desirable to put this well-functioning case law at risk, with also relatively short lead times, through a radical reorganisation for which there is no strict reason. Such a reorganisation would not only be far-reaching, but would also have far-reaching financial consequences in terms of implementation, legal position and organisation. At the same time, the cabinet believes that there is a reason to carry out the divorce further than in 2010. I want to stay out of the discussion as to whether the current version is EVRM proof. I think that would be strictly speaking, but the government's view is that it is possible to continue this separation. This is happening on a number of points. End dual appointments with immediate effect; explicitly provide that the Vice-President and the Council of State do not enter into the judicial procedure for the assessment of cases; the rules governing the right of recommendation are amended. I'm just gonna keep it short at this late hour. The rules governing the periodic consultation with the Lower House on job vacancies are also amended. The arrangements concerning the warning, dismissal and suspension shall be amended. A change has already been made to the 2016 budget. Finally, the presentation to the public will make the separation between legislative advice and administrative justice visible. This is therefore a step further than in 2010. In the opinion of the Cabinet, these measures do not undermine the quality of advice and administrative justice. I would like to say straight away to Mr Amhaouch that it has not been said that the quality is not good now. The reasons for this separation are not based on quality as such, but on the premise that it is important that advice and case-law are separate. That is also what is included in the coalition agreement. Before I come to the specific points, I have one more question to answer, namely the one concerning the consequences for the Advisory Section. It has been argued by the Council of State that this bill will have implications for the capacity of the members concerned with advice because they can no longer have the synergy of double nominations. We have come to the conclusion that we must make room for this. Budgeting is also possible. In the end, we are talking about an extension of 4.5 fte. It seems appropriate to mention this specifically here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u76	The Minister first says that the proposal makes it all clearer. Then he says that the current quality is very good. That is what I said in my speech. The question is what is more important for the Minister: the legislative proposal that should bring more clarity or quality? Does he agree that if we make changes now, this will not lead to the better quality that we do have today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u77	I didn't say that last one. I have specifically said that the quality of the administrative judgment of the Council of State is assessed as very high and that its lead time is short; shorter, by the way, than that of the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Business. This could have other causes, so I'd like to stay out of it. For this reason, we say that we should not remove administrative jurisdiction from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u78	Okay. If we go through that to the Central Appeals Board, what do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u79	If you will allow me to leave that aspect to my colleague from V and J. We are really talking about justice and not about the Council of State Institute. I'm gonna drop by the questions. Mrs Swinkels asks whether it is constitutionally possible to arrange for the councils to pass over. In fact, Article 117 of the Constitution states briefly in paragraph 3 that judges can only be suspended or dismissed by a court designated by law. That is not the case in this case. Those concerned have been and will continue to be appointed for life. There is only the transfer to another court. If that were not possible, it would not have been possible to carry out a reorganisation of the case-law leading to the abolition of a particular court. That cannot be the intention of the constitutionalist. Pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution, it is for the legislator to determine the legal position of the judges. This is done more closely with the introduction law. We shall return to that on that occasion. Mr Bishop asked why there is now a different view of the government from that of abolishing double nominations in 2010. I can give a long answer to that, but the short answer is that there is a progressive understanding. I said that the separation that was made then met the requirements of the ECHR, but that, by way of government agreement, it was decided by the House of Representatives to continue this separation. We are implementing that now. I agree that this indeed goes a step further than the view of our predecessors in 2010, but it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u80	Just now, the Minister said that it is not contrary to the Constitution. I can follow that reasoning, but that is not all we are hearing about it. I assume that the Minister for Security and Justice will come back to this much more comprehensively so that we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u81	As I said, the Minister of V and J is concerned with the legal aspects and the law of introduction. Then there are a number of proposals and questions from Mr Taverne and a few points from Mr Recourt. First of all, to change appointments where someone moves from one section to another. There was talk of flip flops in the first term. The intention must be very clear. It is precisely from the idea that you have to separate those two functions that it is not possible for someone to sit in the Department of Advice on the odd week and go back to the Department of Administrative Law in the same week and go back and forth. This is guaranteed in the procedure alone, because the appointment takes place in one of the two departments per Royal Decree (KB). So the Crown is fully present. It cannot be that the Council of State is shifting people from one department to another. That requires a decision every time. That is a procedural reassurance. I would like to add that my answer from now on is part of the legal history, so I hope that this can also offer comfort. I would not like to rule out the fact that a person who has been active for a very long time in the administration has decided once in his life to join the Advisory Section. There are other examples of this. The analogy is that someone who has been a Member of Parliament can still become a judge or vice versa. That's what's gonna happen. I imagine it happened occasionally. Once again, the Royal Decree is a guarantee that they will not turn that into a flip flop. I think we are aiming at the same thing as Mr Taverne on this point. Mr Taverne also asked whether this part of the bill, i.e. the division of the Council of State, could enter into force earlier than the rest of the bill. In the opinion of the Cabinet, both parts are so closely linked that differentiated entry into force is not in the least reason. That is not what we are trying to do. I've already talked about freaking out between the two departments. There is one important point, but I will take a breath before I start.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u82	The Minister says that differentiated entry into force is not envisaged. I get that. However, my question was whether it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u83	Let me put it this way: if the Chamber wishes it not to happen that way, so I understand it, we can promise that we will take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u84	Now suppose you need a little longer for a few topics down the road in the bill. Then the easy-to-execute parts could simply continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u85	However, I do think that the legislative proposal is a carefully designed piece of work which has been discussed with many parties for a long time and that it would not be wise to allow it to enter into force in part and leave the rest to its course. I would like to consider this further, also because it affects some other portfolios in the cabinet. My tendency for this moment is to say that it is desirable to record a "go/no go" and not to do it in different stages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u86	I would like to echo the Minister's last words. Indeed, part of it affects his colleague's competence. This is, of course, about the introduction law and the much discussed eight counsellors. On the contrary, it could lead to a differentiated entry into force, perhaps as Mr Taverne is aiming at, in any case, the prohibition of double nominations, but not as far as the rest is concerned, to allow them to run in synchronised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u87	Then Mrs. Swinkels asks about those eight judges. If it's all right with her, I'll pass that question on to my colleague from V and J. You're really talking about justice. Mr Taverne raised a point of principle, namely who might be a member of the Constitutional Council of State. For the people at home, it might get a little confusing right now. You have the Administrative Court Department and the Advisory Department. But besides that, you have the Constitutional Council of State. It consists of ten members plus the Vice-President plus the King. It also has a number of constitutional tasks, such as observation in the event of the head of state getting away from us. The cabinet does not want to change the current situation in this respect. This is not the result of the coalition agreement, namely the functional division of justice and advice. For example, if only the members of the Consultative Committee were to become members of the Constitutional Council of State, it would suggest that some sort of hierarchy is being established within the Council of State. That's not what the cabinet wants. This is therefore not necessary in order to realise what the Chamber intended to be carried out by the government by means of a government agreement. And there is no need for the bill as presented by the cabinet here. This applies a fortiori to the president of the Administrative Court Division. It is therefore not the intention of the Cabinet to state that that President cannot be a member of the Constitutional Council of State. That is my answer to that point. I think I have answered the questions that have been asked and are in my area. I suggest you give the floor to my colleague from V and J. But that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u88	I'd like to do that with my heart. Thank you for your reply and I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak on this bill. The history of this bill is long, especially in the memory of this Chamber. A history of four or five years is a long history for a Chamber. Honesty requires, of course, that the organisation of the highest administrative jurisdiction is an issue which has been of concern to Ministers of Justice and Members of Parliament for over a century, and not only since 1984, as Mr Van Nispen said. 1984 was a very long time ago, but this history goes back much further. I only have to refer to the famous draft laws of 1905 of my esteemed minister Loeff. They were about the establishment of administrative justice. Those proposals were pending before the Chamber for 31 years, until they were finally withdrawn by my predecessor, Gosling, in 1936. I was not going to break that record, and I do not think that is the ambition of Mr Plasterk either. That is why I am pleased that the Chamber has taken part in this debate today. It should also be made clear that we intend to vote on the legislative proposal next Tuesday. History shows that you can think very differently about the most desirable form of the highest administrative judgment in our country. Loeff's drafts were based on the assignment of administrative justice to the ordinary judiciary. Special administrative chambers would then be set up in the courts, courts and the Supreme Court. Many spokesmen know what happened in the end. Struycken and his followers torpedoed these plans. After that, the administration's ruling over the years has been designed, I use a lubberian term 'working', with the result that we now have four top administrative judges. There's the Administrative Court Department. That's the supreme general administrative judge. There's the Supreme Court, for tax matters. There is the Central Board of Appeal, the supreme administrative judge for social security and civil service. Finally, there is the College of Occupation for Industry. That is the supreme administrative judge for economic organizational matters. The question that actually arises is: if we had no administrative judges in the Netherlands, would we have come to this structure together? I think the answer to that question is no. If we were to think about administrative justice at an imaginary drawing table, we would not come to these four elements. But we do have these four elements. We need to be realistic and take into account the current situation in which there are several high-ranking judges. This cabinet is not a cabinet that wants to propose large and, above all, money-consuming system changes in this respect because of the beautiful system. So we do not want to interfere with the role of the Administrative Court of the Council of State as the supreme executive judge. At the same time, we do not want to ignore the criticism of the position of the Administrative Court of the Council of State. That is why this legislative proposal introduces measures for a further separation between advice and justice, as the colleague of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations has just explained. The system can also be simpler and more transparent. In particular, for the two smaller special courts, the Central Board of Appeal and the Board of Appeal for Industry, this can be done by abolishing them. That sounds unkind, and I also know that many of the people involved are in the public gallery tonight. It sounds unkind, but that's not the point. It is really a choice that we have made in principle in order to simplify the system on a number of points. We have looked carefully at the nature of the issues and, on this basis, we have come up with the proposal that is now before us. Transferring the jurisdiction of the Central Board of Appeal to the four courts, i.e. the ordinary judiciary, is in accordance with the agreements we have made with each other, also here in this Chamber, with regard to the revision of the judicial card. The other point is the transfer of jurisdiction from the Board of Appeal to the Administrative Jurisdiction Division of the Council of State. That is the essence and at the same time the essence of this bill. In doing so, we must not lose sight of the fact that it is ultimately about people. People who work at an organisation, who also do a very good job there, and now wonder: where am I going to end up? We would therefore like to take the time to discuss carefully with trade unions the legal status of all those working in the colleges to be abolished. We are talking not only about the judges, but of course also about all the other staff. That consultation is now under way and the government is happy to discuss this with the Chamber. This is because a separate legislative proposal is in the process of being drafted: the introduction law. We still have some discussion with Mr Taverne, who has shared his views on this with all of us in the first term, but in principle this bill is intended to be consulted and discussed at the same time with all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u90	The minister's been busy for a while. In many words, he identifies the essence of the bill before him. I hear again'simplifying' and'making transparent', but so far the word 'quality' has not been used throughout the speech. I'm asking the same question I just asked the Home Secretary. He referred to Apostle Paul: researches everything and preserves the good. I would like to put the following question to the Minister of V and J: how much is the quality of this document compared to simplification? I can't hear him about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u91	It goes without saying that no legislative proposal will be submitted by this cabinet with regard to the reorganisation of the highest administrative jurisdiction if its quality is not clearly the starting point. As far as I am concerned, there is no concern whatsoever. I shall come back to this later in the light of the questions raised by both Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels on this subject. Of course, there is no loss of quality in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u92	The customer rating case law 2014 indicates that today 90% is satisfied. Is the Minister saying that with this proposal he dares to put his hands into the fire that he is going to take the step to 95%? Is this a contribution in the right direction, or does he also doubt the guarantee of quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u93	No, I have no doubt about that. I have just said this in response to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u94	I hear the Minister say: the core is, among other things, the division into four courts. I've heard the Chamber in the first term. The SP and D66 have tabled an amendment. I said: let us keep the knowledge of the Central Board of Appeal centered. Is that gonna take a law change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u95	I have the impression that a proposal other than that proposed by the government requires a legislative change. This would raise the question of whether the core of the law is still in line with the intentions of the cabinet and the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u96	Then let's put that question on the table. I think I can make an amendment that will take care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u97	Then we will have to look at that amendment. It will be obvious that the amendment tabled by Mr Van Nispen affects the substance of the legislative proposal. That will dissuade those amendments from the cabinet, I estimate. In any case, I will strongly discourage the amendment that falls under my responsibility. We will assess on their merits the amendments that seek to fill in the agreements set out in the letter sent by the cabinet to the Chamber in 2014 and notify the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u98	The Minister makes a bit of an irritated impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u99	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yeah, absolutely. I've known the minister for a while...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u101	Then you've never seen me irritated, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u102	So it could be worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u103	I admit, however, that I am now almost in my twelfth hour of debate in the Chamber and that this may have some consequences. I started this morning at 10:15, and I'm on my way now for over 11 hours. I have had the pleasure of having an 11-hour exchange of views with Members of Parliament in three debates. Possibly my usual, natural enthusiasm has diminished slightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u104	I understand that in about two and a half hours your birthday will begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u105	Yes. I hope to be able to celebrate my birthday with you all, Mr President, and do my utmost to ensure that Mr Van Nispen arrives with a wonderful gift: a bag of tomatoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u106	The Minister can count on that! It is a pity that the Minister has already guessed, which is why the surprise is off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u107	SP and tomatoes are pretty obvious, Mr. Chairman. As you can see, I am extremely cheerful and not irritated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u108	Happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u109	Then I take back completely what I said about that. I'm just gonna go back to where this is about this. There is an amendment and it cannot surprise the Minister that there are serious concerns about the fragmentation of knowledge and quality of the Central Board of Appeal. The Minister strongly advises against the amendment that is now on the table and says that he will come back to it. He says we'll see what else comes. Before that, however, the Minister said that there should be a vote on Tuesday. What is this, Mr. Chairman? There's something in the coalition agreement. The Chamber has been extremely critical since the written input, especially when it comes to the Central Board of Appeal. In the first term, a clear majority of the House has expressed its opinion on how it intends to deal with it. The Minister now says: if there is another amendment, I can see it, but we are just going to vote on Tuesday. However, it does not work that way that the government pushes through what it wants and that the majority of the House has nothing to say about it. That's not how it works!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u110	I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen on the latter. I've been walking around here for a few years and I know how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u111	Then the question is, what are we going to do? Let me ask the Minister: what are we going to do? There is a majority in the Chamber who has said that they are extremely concerned about the fragmentation of the jurisdiction of the Central Appeals Council over the four courts. And there's the government that says, "That's the core of our bill," and we're sticking to it. The question to the Minister is clear: what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u112	We are going to have a debate and see what that ultimately means. I understand that Mr Recourt may wish to table another amendment, because he said that I understood him that it would require a change of law. This means that such an amendment will be assessed by the government and then provided with an opinion. After that, we will have to look at what the end result is. I think that's the usual way of doing things. Mr Van Nispen also knows this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u113	That's all very nice, but the government has put a proposal on the table. Together with D66 and GroenLinks, the SP has put forward a counter-proposal, which at its core can count on a majority of the Chamber, namely the failure to shatter the jurisdiction of the Central Board of Appeal in so far as it concerns the maintenance of knowledge and quality of the Central Board of Appeal. The government wants this. The Minister says that he has a lot to say about Mr Van Nispen's amendment and Mrs Swinkels' amendment, but does not yet want to say what. I think he should put that on the table. I challenge the Minister to listen to a majority in the Chamber, and then perhaps I suggest to him that he produce a letter of amendment that does justice to what the majority of the Chamber thinks. We can put the ball back with the government. The Minister says: come forward with a proposal. I did. What other colleagues are going to do, we will see. Why doesn't the Minister himself come up with a letter of amendment that does justice to what a majority of the House wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u114	Now I don't quite understand what Mr Van Nispen means anymore. There are three amendments tabled by Mr Van Nispen which make all three amendments to this bill. Mr Recourt says otherwise. He has an idea which is obviously not in line with Mr Van Nispen's amendments. During the discussion on this matter with Mr Recourt, he said that there might be a need for a legislative amendment. I have already said that I will discourage Mr Van Nispen's amendments that fall under my responsibility, because they are essentially contrary to the idea behind the bill and to the thoughts laid down in the letter of June 2014. Then Mr Van Nispen says: yes, but if you think so, you must come up with a letter of amendment. I haven't seen anything like that before. There's just an amendment. That's what your room's gonna vote on. Then we'll see how it ends. I think that's the usual way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mrs. Swinkels, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u116	I've been walking with this for a little less time and I don't understand it that well anymore. Surely it is the coalition partner of this minister who says that this needs to be properly arranged and that that knowledge and those judges of the Central Appeals Council should stay together? I do not understand why that does not give the Minister any reason to change anything and to submit, for example, a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u117	If a coalition partner were to find something like that, the government would have its own opinion on it. We are talking here about a dualist system, in which the government has a position and the Chamber votes on it; it is as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u118	But we are also dealing here with judges and other staff who have been waiting a long time for their legal position to be clarified, as the Minister himself said. Is it not up to the cabinet to do so carefully and in good time and to clarify this here tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u119	It is precisely the cabinet's intention to clarify this. We have tabled a legislative proposal that sets a certain line on which people involved have been preparing for a very long time. People also know exactly where they stand in this respect. It's been clearly agreed. These should then be developed, including in close consultation with the trade unions. Now there's a new idea coming up tonight. The question then is: what is the most stable proposal? I think that's the government's proposal. A number of questions have been asked. I have divided them into various subjects: administrative justice in general, transfer of the Central Board of Appeal, transfer of the Board of Appeal for business, amendment by Mr Van Nispen to item No. 10, and the legal position, which we will, of course, discuss mainly when dealing with the introduction law. Finally, I will talk about the introduction law and its entry into force. I shall begin with Mr Van Nispen's question on the transfer of the Board of Appeal to the Administrative Court. Mr Van Nispen asked: is there such a big difference between the issues that a different solution has been devised? There are, of course, always border areas to be identified; I admit that immediately. However, in general terms, administrative law can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, you have the law of administration, in which there are often major social interests and interests of third parties. These include, for example, infrastructure, economic planning and competition. On the other hand, you have administrative law, in which the relationship between two specific parties is at the forefront. The first part is currently in the Department of Administrative Law and the College of Occupation for Industry. That makes these things very similar. The second part is now predominantly at the Central Board of Appeal and at the Supreme Court when it comes to tax rulings. This distinction is not new, by the way. The same distinction was made a few years ago with the agreement of your Chamber to determine which courts should deal with questions of administrative compensation. The division of competence in this legislative proposal between the Supreme Court and the Administrative Department therefore continues this line. In its opinion, the High Council also pointed out that matters relating to social security and civil service were well in line with its current remit. Mr Van Nispen also asked about social costs. It is precisely this legislative proposal that the Department of Administrative Law is working efficiently in the field of foreign law, environmental law and so on. This well-functioning case law, which the citizen is also satisfied with, should not be changed without good reason. As far as we're concerned, that doesn't help anyone. In addition, the divisional measure that we are now proposing has eliminated any appearance of conflict of interest that Mr Van Nispen has spoken about in the past and also today. Mrs Swinkels asked: why does the government see this bill as a final and future-proof design of the highest administrative jurisdiction? Because this creates a clear system for the highest administrative jurisdiction, namely the so-called twin peak model, which I call equally popular. Disputes with mainly two parties will be brought before the normal judiciary with the Supreme Court as the highest authority. All other disputes shall be brought before the Administrative Department. This means, as far as the government is concerned, that the implementation of this bill has also led to a sustainable form of administrative justice in the Netherlands. Then we have the discussion about the Central Board of Appeal. How does the cabinet solve this fragmentation? There's always talk of fragmentation and cutting up. That is a frame; the opponents of the bill say that there is fragmentation, but that is not at all the issue. The bill makes the four courts competent, as is customary, in tax law, private law and criminal law. That's perfectly normal. No one argues in favour of setting up a single court for criminal law, a single court for tax law and a single court for private law, or parts of it. This means that each court in the current court card is fully capable of treating all specializations independently. There may be different courtrooms, as Mr Recourt said. In this way, specializations can be handled in a careful manner. This could also mean that in a particular court seat only the civil service and in another seat the WMO cases are done. The judicial board is responsible for this and regulates it in a divisional regulation. The Court of Justice has the right to approve it and I reserve the right to destroy it. The political groups of the SP and D66 have requested that that case-law be transferred to one of those four courts. I have just said that this would not be in line with the proposal that has been in place since June 2014 and has been drafted over the last two years. If you look at the court card, there's no reason to take such a step. As far as I am concerned, there is no discussion about the fact that the four courts have the scale and the knowledge to carefully dispose of the cases that will be allocated to them, without any loss of quality. When you look at the amount of things, it also turns out that this can be done easily. About 8,700 cases flowed into the Central Council in 2015. At the four courts, this was a total of 55,860 cases, including 36,000 criminal cases, 5,000 family cases and 5,000 tax cases. If these 8,700 cases are divided into four courts, this gives sufficient substance per court to organise the necessary judicial expertise in those courts. To this end, what tax matters can do can also be done by the Central Appeals Board. According to the government, therefore, there will be no loss of quality, I say to Mr Amhaouch. Mr Van Nispen asked what the effects were on the lead times of the Central Council and the College. The government does not expect any reduction or extension of the lead times; our estimate is that they will remain the same every now and then. Of course, the lead time in the transition phase may increase for a short time due to temporary efficiency loss, because you are reorganising, but otherwise no change is expected in the lead times of business at the Central Board of Appeal. The same applies to the College of Appeal. In the transition phase there may be some delay. Moreover, the lead times in the Administrative Court Division are considerably shorter than those of the Board of Appeal. It would not surprise the government to benefit from this experience with shorter lead times. Mr Bishop asked whether the introduction of cassation would not lead to lengthy procedures. There will be an instance, Mr Bishop is right. On the other hand, it is a gain for the legal protection of citizens. After all, there will be an opportunity to go into cassation. This is the normal course of proceedings in the judiciary. That is a choice of principle, and the government believes that this is a sensible choice. Mr Bishop asked if you could not allow that Central Council to exist. Yes, that might be possible, but then you don't simplify administrative jurisdiction, and that's exactly the starting point of this bill. Mr. Amhaouch asked whether it would be wise to spread the specialized judges of the WMO over the four courts. I fully agree with Mr Amhaouch that the WMO needs specialised judges, but that specialism moves from the Central Council along with the judges who move to the courts. That means there's that expertise in the courts. It is then a matter of organisation within the courts to ensure that these matters can also be dealt with with with sufficient quality and expertise, as is the case in the courts. Each court now also ensures that criminal law is removed by people who understand criminal law. The same applies to civil law and other matters. As far as the government is concerned, there is therefore no objection to quality. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Swinkels asked for a response to the NRC comment. It suggests that there would be a conflict with the ECHR. It goes without saying that this government does not legislate against the ECHR. That means that we do not see that risk. In the meantime, however, we must treat judges with care. If you appoint judges for life, you will have to make good transitional arrangements, for example maintaining salary and offering a good position in a new court. That condition is therefore met for all counsellors of the College of Appeal, including those who will proceed to a court of law. That also means that all counsel can finish their own business. Mr Van Nispen asked how much it costs to abolish the College of Appeal and to retrain judges. We have, of course, already discussed this in a written round. Perhaps Mr Van Nispen would like to ask a question first. Then I am happy to give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u120	I have the impression that we are doing a little bit of this here and I do not think that is very sensible. The position of those eight counsellors has also been the subject of fundamental objections from the Chamber. They are of a legal nature, but also of a qualitative and legal nature. In what order do you make the bill, what do you put in when, how do we organize it all, et cetera? The Minister says here: no, it's all in line with the ECHR, so you don't have to worry about that. That's actually the Minister's answer. And: we take good care of those people. Speaking from my group, and I think I have heard the same thing from other groups: we are not satisfied with that. I certainly don't. Surely we can't tell eight counselors that you're not following your work? Actually, as a politician, you get judges off their cases. Not the specifics, but the type of business they've always done. So my argument is that this raises legal objections. I would like a more detailed response from this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u121	Let me put it first: Mr Van Nispen does not get the answer he wants. Then he says that we are raving around and he talks about the rule of law and the ECHR. That's fine. I'm very sorry, but I'm just gonna give you the answer the government gives. Suppose for a moment that Mr Van Nispen would be right and that you should never move a judge from one case to another, then the whole judiciary becomes completely out of control. So you can never reorganise. Then we could not have done the revision of the judicial card at all. If Mr. Van Nispen were right, you couldn't do anything. Then a judge will be in one specific place once and for all. Of course it's not like that. The case law of the European Court therefore states that judges are irremovable during their appointment. However, this does not mean that a court could not be dissolved in the context of a reorganisation. That then means that, if you do that, you have to meet decent and decent conditions. I have just indicated that these conditions are being met. Good conversations are going on about that, too. They will also be taken into account in the implementation law. It is clear to me that Mr Van Nispen does not like that answer. Mr Van Nispen does not see anything in the bill. However, it is not a matter of saying that this is a violation of the case law of the European Court of Justice. That's just not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u122	At least what is not at issue is that if you followed my line you could never change anything about justice. We have done so in the past, and that has always been resolved in a proper way. Let me turn it around and let me ridicule it a little bit. If you were to follow the Minister's reasoning, you could, in theory, I would add, also say: we are going to remove the foreign judgment from the Council of State. For example, we are dissatisfied with the fact that so many foreigners are once again entitled to a residence permit: this is theoretically a residence permit. We're reorganizing the whole thing and the judges aren't going on their business. Once again, I am also ridiculing the Minister's position, but it is the principle that, as a politician, you cannot simply decide that certain judges should no longer be allowed to judge their affairs. Then let me stop ridiculing. Very seriously, I think the Minister takes this far too lightly. In addition, I really do not understand the objection when it comes to the eight counsellors, because it is not about so many people, it would say: let us act purely. Let us ensure that these counsellors are simply taken over by the Council of State and do their business there as they do now. You could consider that as an acquiring company. The counsellors can then simply continue their work. What's so terrible about that? Then let me ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u123	Mr Van Nispen always asks three or four questions in a row. You then tend to answer the last question, but then you forget to address the point that Mr Van Nispen calls it "ridiculizing my position." However, that was not ridiculing my position. What Mr Van Nispen did was to say that what the government is proposing would be the same as the decision to remove the foreign judge from his duties if he makes unpleasant decisions. He calls that ridiculing my point of view. I really take a fundamental distance from the suggestion that the government's bill would somehow come close to Mr Van Nispen's paraphrase. I'm serious. I am now standing here for almost 12 hours, but today, in the last 12 hours, I have not heard such a position from a spokesperson of the SP, let alone from other spokesmen. It does not suit Mr Van Nispen that he makes that suggestion. That would be in flagrant violation of our rule of law. There is no government worth a snipe when it makes such a proposal. What we are doing here is putting forward a proposal to simplify the highest administrative jurisdiction. We are doing this extremely carefully. That has also taken a very long time; Mr Van Nispen has heard Mr Taverne say that this has taken far too long. Why did it take so long? Because this has to be done very carefully. It took us nearly five years to come to this proposal. It took my predecessors 31 years, and then it was withdrawn. I believe that the government should be called upon to do so very carefully. The suggestion made by Mr Van Nispen here really does not go far enough. I am not going to go into that further. Here, the interests of both the individual councillors and the administrative courts are handled with great care. The government is convinced that it is putting forward a careful proposal that has been carefully considered. The fact that Mr Van Nispen does not agree with that is fine, but the way in which he takes the proposal off, I really do not think the SP is a good thing. It certainly does not grace Mr Van Nispen, whom I appreciate in a different way, but not on the basis of these arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u124	I am extremely sorry that the Minister is here for 12 hours. Really. I do not wish that on anyone's behalf, and certainly not this minister. What I meant to say is this, and that's what I said. The Minister's taking it so personally will be the fatigue. Really, it's about the principle. It's the principle that we're pushing hard. That's what I'm trying to tell you. I made it clear that that is not what I blame the government for. I'm not saying the Minister's directing on the outcome of cases. I see that the Minister is responding to this now, but I say that I am not blaming the Minister. I made it clear, just as the Minister explained my position more firmly than I did myself. It's about the principle. Reorganise and transfer cases of judges to another college, while the judges are not allowed to participate: you have to be very careful with that. That is the result of this bill if we do not do anything about it. However, my question has not been answered. What's the objection if we let those judges follow their work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u125	That question was raised extensively in the written procedure. We have indicated that the administrative justice department has a completely different ratio in terms of the number of counsellors in relation to the supporting staff. For this reason, it is not obvious that a large number of counsellors should be added to the Administrative Court Division. This has been looked at very carefully and in good consultation, including with the Administrative Department and the persons concerned. That's why that choice was made. Mr Van Nispen knows that. That's all in the pieces and he's read them thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u126	So you subjugate a friction problem to the principle that is indeed at stake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u127	We do interrupts in two, and exceptionally in threes. I am going to give Mrs Swinkels the floor. It is wise for the discussion itself not to repeat the interpretation of each other's statements, but to ask the questions you wish to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u128	I'm gonna stick with a question. Can the Minister explain why the transfer of all judges could not take place with the judges of the Board of Appeal for Business, whereas in the past this was done with the canton courts when the canton courts were incorporated into the courts? This has even led to a five-year guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u129	There was a completely different situation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u130	In what way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u131	Well, the revision of the judicial card was a slightly different operation than the simplification of administrative justice that is currently envisaged. That's something completely different. This is not comparable, so other issues emerge. I come to the issue of legal status. It is right and understandable that questions have been raised, particularly by Mr Van Nispen, but also by Mr Recourt, Mr Bishop and Mrs Swinkels. The essence of the matter is that the cabinet believes that there should be very careful treatment, not only with the councillors, about whom the discussion is mainly about today, but also with the support staff. Good agreements have been made on this. To the extent that this still needs to be done, we will do so by means of the introduction law. As I have just said, careful consultation is now taking place, including with the NVvR. It is a logical step towards the introduction law. Mr Van Nispen asked whether this bill could enter into force before the legal aspects were settled. I fully agree with him that the abolition of the Central Council and the Board of Appeal will only be possible after the adoption law has been finalised. The main legislative proposal and the part of the implementing law on the legal status of staff must, in the opinion of the Cabinet, enter into force simultaneously. This simultaneous entry into force is therefore laid down in the introduction law. This also meets the express, and also understandable, wish of the NVvR. So I can give this to Mr Van Nispen. Mrs Swinkels asked another question: if we are talking about those legal aspects, why not settle them now, so in this law? The government's starting point is that they should be regulated precisely by the introduction law. Separate routes have been chosen because of the careful preparation of the topics covered by the introduction law, in particular those legal aspects. The consultation with the NVvR has started, but has been suspended; I think it was at the request of the NVvR, but I'm not entirely sure. The NVvR wanted to see how this debate would end in the Chamber. That is an understandable position in itself. I also think it is very important that the process should be followed carefully. In the meantime, this autumn, we will consult the introduction law, partly on the basis of the discussion here. I partly agree with Mr Taverne that this does not require long-term internet consultation. I do not agree with him if he says that there is no need to discuss the introduction law at all, but I do not think he is saying that. This is really about the legal status of people, and this needs to be discussed very carefully with a large number of organisations. That's what we're gonna do. I agree with Mr Taverne that there is no need for a long-term internet consultation. There is one aspect on which no one has yet been able to express themselves: the opinion of the Legal Unit of the Commission. It's in the law of introduction. I believe that people, parties and stakeholders in society should be able to express themselves on this issue. The government therefore intends to hold an internet consultation of up to two weeks. That is very short, but we believe that this could be an appropriate time-limit in the interests of progress, also because many aspects of course have already been discussed in the consultation for this legislative proposal. Mr Taverne has already indicated that it has taken quite a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u132	It's good to hear that. I agree that this is not intended to be done in detail again, also because the legal positions have already been discussed in detail. Moreover, I imagine that these aspects are not widely shared in an internet consultation, so this will take place in a different way. I'm gonna think about what the minister said about those two weeks. Experience has shown that these two weeks mean that there will be a response to comments, all of which may take a while. Anyway, if it's the intention that it's going to take a shorter time than it's supposed to be, that's nice. I have another question about the entry into force of the bill if some changes were to be made to it. We have already talked about this. I spoke in my term of office about Article XXXIV. That states, I quote: 'This law shall enter into force at a time to be determined by Royal Decree, which may be different for the different articles or parts thereof'. In my view, the legislative proposal has two main elements: on the one hand, the further division of content and organization of tasks within the Council of State, on the other hand, the modernisation and simplification of the highest administrative jurisdiction. However, I can only read that these two parts of the legislative proposal do not have to enter into force simultaneously. You can easily enter the organisational aspects on the side of the Council of State, if you are not yet completely out in the highest administrative jurisdiction or working conditions that play a role in this. Does the Minister share that judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u133	I find that difficult to answer in a moment. I understand Mr Taverne's question. Will he allow me to return to that in second term? I would like to respond very carefully to this point because it concerns the question of what that means for the people involved in such a reorganisation and entry into force. Then I come to the amendments tabled by Mr Van Nispen. The amendment in part No. 10 aims to transfer both colleges, the Central Board of Appeal and the College of Occupation for Industry, to a new fifth court. That amendment is fundamentally contrary to the idea behind the legislative proposal, which is to simplify the highest administrative jurisdiction. I must therefore discourage that amendment. Mr Van Nispen's amendment to item No. 11 is part of the same and is also about the fifth court. He will not be surprised that I also betrayed that amendment. The amendment in part No. 12 wants matters not, as proposed by the bill, to pass from the Board of Appeal for Business to the Administrative Court Department but to the Court of The Hague. This is also contrary to the principle of the legislative proposal. I would also advise against that amendment. That brings me to the end of my term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u134	Why exactly is it not a simplification to propose a fifth court, where administrative decisions are placed? Why is that so fundamentally contrary to the essence of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u135	Because the essence of the bill is not to create extra courts, but less courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u136	And what if we proposed not to divide jurisdiction over the four courts, as the Minister wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u137	The consequences of such a proposal, which is not yet before us, will have to be carefully weighed. We shall then give the Chamber an opinion. That's the way it is in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u138	Amendments to a legislative proposal which have not yet been tabled may be submitted in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u139	That would, moreover, be a very substantial and complex amendment, which would consist of a large number of provisions. That will have to be looked at carefully, but we can do so quickly. If there is, we will respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u140	I would remind the rulers that three other amendments have now been tabled. This was done by the government during its first reply. We will, of course, ask the government to return to the assessment of these amendments in the second period. I will continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u141	I have a point of order. It is indeed very radical to make such a new amendment. If my amendment is so strongly discouraged, we have nothing but to look for an amendment that is better. That's a big deal. We need time for that. I suggest we suspend. Then I'll say I'll work on that as soon as possible. This is something very fundamental and I do not feel the need to conclude this now with an amendment and a written reply. So my proposal is to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr Van Nispen makes an order proposal. I'll put that to the Chamber. You need a majority for that. Mr Van Nispen has put forward an order proposal to suspend the second term of the Chamber and therefore the government at another time. I'm gonna see if there's a majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u143	You will not be surprised that I support Mr Van Nispen's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u144	I do not support the proposal. I want to see what the position of all parties in second term is. If a re-opening is necessary after that, we'll see. But let's finish it now, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u145	I agree with Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u146	I can imagine the need of Mr Van Nispen, so I would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u147	Support for Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u148	I note that there is no majority in favour of Mr Van Nispen's request. We shall continue with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I call Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr. Chairman. I'm actually a little sad about how this is going. It is the Minister himself who stresses that it must be carefully and that we have had a long process. May I remind you that we, as SP, always wanted to discuss the main points of this plan with the government, which was at the time in 2014, but that this was taken off the agenda by the VVD, with the support of a majority? So it is not the SP that is the first time that I have criticized this bill orally on many points. By the way, we did do so in writing. So that can't come as a surprise. The Minister cannot now say: it must all be carefully, we have only heard this now and we have been preparing the plans for so long. So that would all have been preventable. I am not going to repeat what I said in the first term. I have criticized many things. I think it is a very important legislative proposal, because it concerns the establishment of our rule of law and the future of administrative justice. I mentioned a number of pain points. I would like to mention them in general: the division of jurisdiction of the Central Board of Appeal, the placing of the Board of Appeal for Industry with the Council of State and the subsequent exclusion of the eight counsellors. For me, these are points of pain which I do not see in any way in the government's sight. On one point, the division of jurisdiction of the Central Appeals Board, I note that there is a majority of parliament that does not want what the government wants. He doesn't want what the SP, together with D66 and GroenLinks, has said. So we're gonna do some hard puzzles on what we can still achieve. But that it cannot be as proposed by the government, certainly not as far as the Central Appeals Board is concerned, is certain for me. Amendments may therefore be modified. That may not be done by Tuesday. So we cannot vote on this on Tuesday. We'll see about that. I'm going to table another motion concerning the position of the eight councillors. I think that is a point of principle, a point of law and a point of quality. They are people with a lot of knowledge and expertise. Then you can also approach it practically. What is against letting these people, if we decide to transfer the CBb to the Council of State, follow their work properly? I shall therefore table a motion on that point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Administrative Court of the Council of State (ABRvS) is only prepared to take over the senior councillors, i.e. not all counsellors, from the Board of Appeal for Industry (CBb) and that this starting point is laid down in the report accompanying this legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas the total number of (senior) board members of the CBb is low and all of these are now the top-level specialist administrative judges in the CBb's jurisdictions;]] [[Whereas this is not in line with the principle of "man follows up work" and it is incorrect from a legal point of view that it is not ensured that all persons appointed for life (senior) counsellors of the CSFb follow their case;]] [[Whereas the CSFb has indicated that the transition from legal support does not sufficiently ensure the transfer of expertise, since the expertise is mainly present at the works councils, which also raises the question of whether the current quality of the judgments delivered by the CSFb is guaranteed;]] [[Whereas the Board of Appeal, the Netherlands Association for Justice, several administrative bodies, companies, lawyers, scientists and several parties to the CBb have also expressed concern that the highly specialised knowledge of the CBb is not preserved;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the law or the introduction law governs that all current (senior) counsellors working at the Board of Appeal (Senior) board follow their work in the Administrative Court of the Council of State according to the principle of "man follows work" and according to the principle that judges should not be removed from their affairs by the legislator,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Swinkels and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34389-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u150	Finally, I have two comments to make. The penultimate one is that I am not very enthusiastic about the legislative proposal, but that the support for the amendments and for the motion I have just tabled may be crucial to the opinion I will give my group on whether or not the SP can support this bill. Finally, I wish the Minister a very happy birthday tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr. Chairman. To ensure that that birthday does not need to be celebrated here in this Chamber, I will be very brief. I must honestly say that I was gradually thinking of this debate: hey, there is still light. But in the end, I'm left with a feeling of disappointment. I think this applies to several people sitting in the public gallery. It was all about concentration and simplification. Our objections are well known. These concern, in particular, the Central Board of Appeal and the fragmentation of the Court of Justice. I shall take the floor again, however, which remains over the four courts. I would also like to mention the course towards the College of Occupation for Business and the partial delay of the judges. It is disappointing, because the cabinet gives no sign at all that it has any understanding of it or wants to accommodate it. For my group, too, the response of the Minister to the proposed amendments will be of great importance in the question of what will ultimately be decided on this bill. That's my decision. I, too, wish the Minister a happy birthday tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u152	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering the questions. It was adequate, but not entirely satisfactory. Well, let's put it this way. We are also disappointed by the response to the amendments which could have improved the proposal in our view. I have already indicated in the first instance that we have serious doubts about the usefulness and necessity of changing the administrative procedure in this form. Does this serve the quality and does this indeed provide an efficient structure? Those questions have not been removed and I shall put them to the group. During the anniversary of the Minister for Security and Justice, I will look into the wording of the opinion, but I have such a suspicion that the opinion might be to vote against this proposal. It also depends a little on the way in which the amendments that have been tabled are dealt with, but that is what we are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u153	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both ministers for their detailed reply. I think anyone who thought that this was a subject that would pass unnoticed in this house has been cured of it today. Well, the good news is, it's just that it upsets the moods. This is very important in the case of a subject as state-of-the-art and as constitutional as this. The two Minister's replies concerned the two main elements of this proposal: on the one hand, the internal and organisational further division of tasks within the Council of State and on the other hand, the modernisation of the highest administrative jurisdiction. With regard to both the main elements of this proposal, I think we can find each other in this house. Not all of us, but most of us believe that the Council of State should better separate the tasks and that we should also lay this down legally, and on the other hand, we think it is a good idea to go back from four top administrative judges to two. There are, however, a number of comments that can be added which now lead to noise. I would like to concentrate on the first part of the proposal, namely the organisation of the Council of State and how these two tasks can be better separated. I have said a number of things about this in the first place. Once again, I thank the government for the answers, but there are three points on which I would like to lay down this in the law. The first point concerns Article 42 (4) on failure to judge a case on which advice has been given in the capacity of a member of the Section for Advice. To that end, I tabled an amendment together with Mr Recourt. The second point concerns the potential of moving back and forth from one section to another. The Minister for the Interior has rightly pointed out that there is still some kind of safety valve in there, because it requires a KB to be struck. I agree with him, but if we are to modernise the law now, we may also be doing the Council of State a favor by simply laying it down in the law. Then everyone knows that for sure and there are no questions about it. The third point is the appointment of the members of the Administrative Court Division to the Constitutional Council. Let us not forget that until a few decades ago the Constitutional Council was made up of members of the Advisory Section, including the Chairman of the Administrative Court Division. There was no such thing at the time, so he couldn't be a part of it either. The VVD Group believes that it is good that, given the purity and purpose of further separation of tasks, the Constitutional Council is not yet another platform where the members of the State Councils from both departments meet again for the ultimate moment, when the Constitutional Council must take action in observing the royal authority. Then it is not at all important whether there are members of the Administrative Court Division in it. All this can be done very well with the state councils in the section's opinion. That is why Mr Recourt has also tabled an amendment on this subject. A number of comments have been made on the fact that the proposal does not come into force at once. I look forward to the Minister of Justice's reply to my question that I asked him in the event of interruption. Finally, with regard to the use of internet consultation in the introduction law, I note that it is all true what has been said about it, namely that working conditions are covered. They are important and need to be discussed. However, I believe that this will not be done through an internet consultation, but simply through consultation with those responsible and the representatives of those concerned. On the other hand, the question of law is a question of unity. It's been answered in the Legal Unity Committee. This subject has already been discussed in detail over the past five years. I also believe that there is no need for an internet consultation. I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Justice has at least reduced the deadline he intends to take to two weeks. That's better than the two months that were taken for that first. Nevertheless, I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the entry into force of the Organisation of Supreme Administrative Law Act requires an introduction law;]] [[Whereas a broad consultation, including a four-month Internet consultation, has taken place on behalf of the Organisation's Supreme Administrative Court Act;]] [[Whereas all arguments have been exchanged and a rapid examination of the introduction law is desirable, having regard to the fact that the staff of the courts concerned are to be informed;]] [[calls on the government, the introduction law organisation's highest administrative jurisdiction this year to submit to the Lower House without prior internet consultation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Taverne and Mr Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34389-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u154	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for their reply. I have two more points to discuss. It's actually the key points of the whole treatment. Point one is the eight counselors. I've already said that I'm assuming this will be handled properly. I also know that the NVVR has a right of consent. It would help if they could live with the arrangement. I assume that in the first instance the principle is to go along with the authority from whose court something is taken over or embedded or whatever you want to call it. The most important point is the unity of the Central Appeals Board. On behalf of my group, I have made it clear that this is a great wish. The amendments tabled by the SP, D66 and GroenLinks seem to me to be a step too far, because they keep the Central Appeals Council as it is now, as a fifth court. I think you should hang it under the current structure, albeit under the maintenance of the standard of non-shrinking. For example, I can imagine that you are going to arrange for the Den Bosch court to be given social security, but with the Utrecht seat, or that The Hague is doing civil service. I am considering submitting an amendment to this effect, but I would be happy to do so in consultation with all the other parties who also consider that fragmentation is undesirable. In fact, I think that to a great extent and also in the short term. Then I'll find out what the cabinet thinks about that after it's filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u155	Do you have a time limit in which you intend to submit that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u156	I myself am unable to write such a complex amendment this weekend. I need help with that. The more help, the faster. If the Ministry offers official help, it will be on paper faster than if it is not, but I hope it can be done by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u157	Mr. Chairman. Today, the CDA Group began to ask the question: why this bill. Following the reply of both ministers, I was stuck with the idea that this would make the case law simpler. In my view, a deeper answer to the question of how we guarantee quality is not given. That's been pushed into the background. That's the first thing. Secondly, it has also emerged from my first speech that the support outside the Court of Justice, the Dutch Association for Justice, but also at the Supreme Court, is moderate. So outside there is already little support for this bill. In addition, today, coalition partner PvdA says: the fragmentation of the CBb is also undesirable to us and we do not agree with that. Mr Van Nispen had just counted quickly: there is also no support for this bill in the Lower House today. We are concerned that we should continue to deal with the highest level of administrative justice, which is neither acceptable nor acceptable. We will take the answers we receive today from both ministers, thank you for that, to the group. We'll see if we can turn that into chocolate. I dare not guarantee that chocolate will be ready in time for the birthday of our Minister of V and J, but at least I wish him a happy birthday tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u158	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. A suspension has been requested in preparation for the response of the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u159	For the second term on the part of the government, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mr. Chairman. In the second period, the government shall be deemed to give its opinion on the amendments and motions submitted. We have divided them among the portfolios along the lines that we have used in the first term. I have a problem on two points. The amendment in part No. 15 is far-reaching. I cannot and will not give advice on this without further discussion within the cabinet. The amendment does not result from the coalition agreement. It affects the constitutional position of the Council of State. It regulates what happens in the event of the King's death and which members of the Council of State would or would not be eligible for it. I cannot give advice on this without discussing it in the cabinet. Mr Recourt announced an amendment. This is strictly in my colleague's area, but since it is a matter of order, I am free to comment on it. The amendment on the division of tasks of the Central Board of Appeal may also be so far-reaching that we would like further discussion in the Cabinet, but the amendment has not yet been tabled. Mr President, it is possible for us to consider the amendment tabled in respect of item No. 15 and Mr Recourt's amendment to be tabled and that we will inform the Chamber next week about the opinion of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u161	I would like to join in that. Nor can we properly assess the impact of the amendment on the two sections within the Council, including on internal relations. In the letter, I would like to know whether this could lead to the Section becoming subordinate to the Section's Opinion in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u162	That's what I'm telling you. That's part of the reflection I need. It is indeed suggested that there is an A and B category for the members of the Council of State, namely those who could and those who could not take their place after the death of the King. That is one of the constitutional tasks of the Council of State. If this becomes part of the legislative proposal thus amended, I would like to consider whether we want to continue the legislative proposal in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u163	I would like to conclude that we are still receiving a written response to the amendment to item No. 15 and to an amendment still to be received. I would have concluded that last one anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u164	That was the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u165	I think that's been honored. The other amendments and the motions are now being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u166	If you wish, we can now respond to that. On my property, that's only two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u167	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u168	I have a question about that possibly far-reaching amendment. We're going to read that advice in the letter. Do I understand correctly that the Minister says he does not want to go through with the bill if the amendment has certain consequences? If it's different, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u169	I'm not getting ahead of myself. I'll leave that in the middle. I just want to know what the amendments are and I want to consider myself in the cabinet. I did say, however, that for the amendment tabled in respect of item No. 15 and the Recourt amendment still to be tabled, they do not result from what is laid down in the government agreement on the question of the division of functions of the Council of State. There is every right and reason for the cabinet to look at it again and determine what the view is on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u170	Following on from Mrs Swinkels' question on the amendment to item No. 15 the following. The Minister has undertaken to stress once again the possible possibility of A and B members of the Council of State. Perhaps then the Minister could immediately take with him whether he believes that there are already A and B members of the Council of State. Not all State Councils, whether they come from the Administrative Department or from the Section for Opinions, are members of the Constitutional Council. It has only a limited number of members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u171	I will take that with me, but I can now say that the Constitution lays down that the Constitutional Council of State has a maximum of ten members, plus the King. It is therefore imperative that not all members of the Council of State should be members of the Constitutional Council of State. This is a different matter from stating in advance that those who are members of the Advisory Section of the Council of State may automatically, in advance, be members of the Constitutional Council of State and those who are members of the Administrative Department of Justice cannot automatically be members of the Constitutional Council of State in advance. That is not the case now, and that is the result of that amendment. That is a point I would like to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u172	That's one way to look at it. Another way is to say that it could lead to a further division of tasks and responsibilities within the Council of State. And that was the whole point. Anyway, we're gonna read it in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u173	Yes. I will now respond to the desire to give the opinion on the other points. As far as the amendment on item No. 13 I had already explained that what is proposed is not necessary as far as I am concerned. What is contained in it is actually self-evident to me. I therefore leave the opinion on that amendment to the Chamber. In the amendment to item No. 14 states that people can switch shifts once in their lives. I think this is unnecessary. I have already said that, and that is part of the history of law, that people are not supposed to freak out between the two departments. It needs a Royal Decree, so there is no question of doing so simply and lightly. Limiting this to once in your life, I don't think it's necessary. So it would not be my opinion to adopt this amendment, but it is not a matter of substance either. After all, I have just said that it has not actually occurred at all that someone would like to switch departments. So this is a bit of a theological discussion. I therefore do not recommend the amendment to item No. 14, but I'm doing it with a little "o." Again, it's not a big deal. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 15 we talked to. The others are on the premises of my highly valued colleague of V and J.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u174	I have to say that in the meantime there is also an amendment by Mr Swinkels and Mr Van Nispen. 18 has been submitted. I would ask the government to respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u175	No, I can take that amendment with me already. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u176	Well, look.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u177	Mr. Chairman. First, I come to the motion on part No. 16, by Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Swinkels and Mrs Van Tongeren. That motion assumes that the councillors should be dealt with in a different way from what has been proposed. I also had a debate on this with Mr Van Nispen. The motion is based on the idea that there would be a principle that judges should not be removed from their cases by the legislator. I have already given a number of comments on the substance. The petitioners will understand that I must discourage that motion. I have to do that for a number of reasons. First of all, this is precisely a subject covered by the introduction law. There is therefore no point in tabling a motion now, whereas the introduction law will simply be dealt with here. Furthermore, the motion is premature because the consultation with the NVvR is still ongoing. In addition, the government has substantive objections to the motion. That's why I have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 17 by Mr Taverne and Mr Recourt. It says: you, government, must introduce the introduction law already this year, without internet consultation. This motion really gets me in serious trouble. I'll explain why. Firstly, it is common practice in our country for the Council of State to advise on draft legislation. I'm not going to deviate from that by way of a motion. This is in all our laws. This also means that the introduction law should simply be sent to the Council of State for advice and that, in accordance with the usual rules, the Council of State has three months for that advice. I do not think that the Council of State needs three months to advise on that law of introduction, but the suggestion that is based on this is that in the worst case, when the motion is adopted, the government is asked to skip the Council of State. That cannot and must not be the intention of this motion. Secondly, this motion proposes not to consult the Internet. I understand the thought behind that. Mr Taverne says that we have been waiting for this bill for five years, and we must make progress. I have also said to Mr Taverne in the first term that I am prepared to limit the internet consultation to two weeks. That's very short. I attach great importance to this. Why? Since the law of introduction is not only about the legal status of judges, you can have a discussion about whether society should speak out about this, but also about the provision of units of law, on which no one has yet been able to speak. The opinion was sent to the Chamber, but it was not part of any debate. Moreover, the introduction law also provides for the possibility for courts and courts to refer questions to the Court for a preliminary ruling on social security matters. I really think, as I say to Mr Taverne and Mr Recourt, that on this kind of issue of the legal unit and also the question referred for a preliminary ruling, the Order of Lawyers, the interested parties, but also the ordinary citizen, even if it is short, should be able to comment on this. That is why I am very interested in what Mr Taverne is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u178	The Minister makes it appear as if the use of the means of internet consultation is quite common in implementing legislation. Then how does the Minister judge that of the 700 times that an internet consulation has been deployed, it was only twice an introduction law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u179	I do not know if those figures are correct, but that is probably because in many cases the only way to achieve this is to say: this law will then enter into force and then enter into force. You don't have to hold Internet consultation for that. If you put down a bill that provides a unitary provision for the Supreme Court and Supreme Administrative Court, and which also provides that questions for a preliminary ruling may be referred to the Supreme Court by courts and courts, then it is obvious to conduct the ordinary, normal procedure: 1) The Council of State should ask for advice if you interpret the motion literally, it should not allow the applicants to do so, and 2) people, for example the Order of Advocates, to publicly allow themselves to express their views on this matter. I understand the background to this motion. I would, however, like to promise Mr Taverne that we will limit the internet consultation to two weeks. I express my confidence that the Council of State will not need the three-month period because the Council of State was involved in the drafting of the opinion of the Committee on Administrative Law. I do not think that the other aspect needs a long-term examination of the Council of State either. So I expect this to be quick. At the same time, I don't think it's right. It has to be after. The internet consultation can only take place after the advice of the Council of State... Or can it be done simultaneously? I'm getting very unclear signals from my officials right now. Before. Oh, we do the Internet consultation first and then the Council of State follows. Exactly, then we also know what the final proposal is. I say to Mr Taverne that we limit the internet consultation to two weeks and that we will be there very soon, I think, the bottleneck is going to deal with the comments and the broadcast to the Council of State. If I may read the motion in such a way that it is requested 'do your work, do it carefully but as soon as possible, and we will be very careful whether you do', I can leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u180	I understand the Minister's consideration, but I also know that he understands my alertness, given my experience with internet consultations in recent years with regard to this route. I appreciate him trying to bring it back to two weeks. I also appreciate his statement that he will do so as soon as possible and that he will have his department's response and processing carried out as quickly as possible. Let me take a look at Mr Recourt: is it an idea to hold the motion? I can see my colleague nodding in the affirmative. Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u181	Then I would like to thank the gentlemen for this, because this will solve a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u182	At the request of Mr Taverne, I propose his motion (34389, No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u183	I shall be the last to come to the amendment to item No. 18 of the members Swinkels and Van Nispen. This is a very special amendment. I do not think that we have previously received an amendment which should regulate what is contained in this amendment. I congratulate both Members on writing parliamentary history. I have promised that the entry into force of both legislative proposals will have to take place at the same time. That commitment is there and the government can be kept to it. In order to ensure this, the main legislative proposal lays down what we would regulate in the introduction law, namely that both legislative proposals will enter into force at the same time. This is done by referring to a bill to be submitted. Legally, that is very complicated and for that reason I must advise against the amendment. I do have a suggestion. Since I have had to discourage Mr Van Nispen's motion because it is too premature, I would suggest to him that the motion be rebuilt in such a way that the essence of what is stated here, the cabinet's commitment to the simultaneous introduction of both laws, is included in the motion. If he does, I have no problem with that motion, because it merely confirms the policy I have laid down here. In that case, I will leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. It is, of course, up to Mr Van Nispen. If he doesn't, I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u184	I am looking at Mr Van Nispen and he is thinking about that, I see. You don't have to respond, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u185	I've been thinking, Mr. Chairman, and I'm going to add the operative part. In fact, that only makes the motion stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u186	Then it'll continue to be dissuaded. Yes, you don't have to say that, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u187	I am very sorry to have to discourage the motion. I can reassure Mr Swinkels and Mr Van Nispen: if the government makes a commitment, it would be a good use in this House that it will introduce both legislative proposals at the same time, the Chamber can trust that this will happen. There is no need for a motion, let alone an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u188	I forgot, with apologies, to apologize to Mr Bishop and Mr Amhaouch for getting their last train. I thank the rulers for their answers in first and second terms and for their time. For the Minister of Security and Justice, it was a long day in plenary, 13 hours, which ended just before his birthday. Please note the conclusion, because the debate was quite special in that respect. We expect another response to an amendment tabled and we expect another amendment to be tabled and a response to it. Pending these reactions, both the amendment and the government's response to them, I announce in advance that this bill will be placed on Tuesday's voting list so that we can vote on both the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal. You all know the rules of this house; indeed, it depends very much on the moment when we are allowed to receive the reactions. Mr Van Nispen has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u189	I would appreciate that it is not customary, I know that to vote first on the motion and then on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u190	It's possible. Let me look at the Members to see if there are any objections. That is not the case. Mr Recourt also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u191	I have a proposition. We're confusing you. I suspect that it will not be possible to have written and commented on the amendment by Tuesday. I would like to take a look at the Members who are here today and propose that the vote be postponed to the next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u192	That'll be Tuesday after the fall recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u193	Then I have a counter-proposal. Are we gonna be okay for the last vote before the fall recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u194	That's next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u195	Oh, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-06-tweedekamer-8.u196	I note that time is needed to discuss both the amendment that has already been tabled and the amendment that is still to be tabled. You helped me, just by causing confusion first. The vote on this bill, the motion and the amendments will take place on the first Tuesday after the autumn recess. We shall then proceed to the vote on the motion and amendments that have been tabled. In the case of amendments, we do so anyway, but the request is to put the motion to the vote first.
