ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. I see the Secretary of State is in, and that's a good thing. Mayor Jos Heijmans van Weert is a refused mayor. He refuses to enforce the law by not helping to send away part of a Syrian family, while these people have to go to Germany because they have ever applied for asylum there. In doing so, this mayor also uses a completely inappropriate one, let me just say, disgusting war equation to justify his act. He says: I don't send people on the train to Germany just before 4 May. Where does he get it? What does the Secretary of State think of this disgusting comparison of this D66 mayor? So Mayor Heijmans van Weert doesn't follow the law, and he's proud of it. He says, "If I get a call from the Return Service and leave, I'm not gonna say anything, I'm just not gonna say anything." In other words, he's keeping these people hidden, and he calls it hiding. That's the next wrong war equation. Has the mayor called the Secretary of State yet? Or has the Secretary of State called the mayor yet? If so, has the mayor actually kept quiet? Or did he answer the question: where is this family staying and when can I take these people to Germany? I've got half a minute left in this round. That is why I shall make a brief announcement. Ordinary Dutch people are fined for the simplest violations. Of course, a foul is a foul, but if you drive three miles an hour too fast, you get a ticket. Forget to pay, the fine will be increased continuously and eventually you'll go to court. If you send an asylum-seekers' center uncomfortable Twitter message to the air, you'll get the police on your doorstep. If you try to secure your own neighborhood in Ede against Islamic stone throwers, you get a fine, while the Islamic thugs have free play. If a reporter gets kicked, the cops drive on. And this mayor can just sit here? Is the Secretary of State prepared, together with his fellow Minister Plasterk, to send this mayor out of his way, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the mayor of Weert and I differ on what needs to be done in this case. Frankly, I also do not think that the family was helped directly by it either: not formally because hiding the clock means that there is no time limit for these people to return to Germany under the Dublin rules, and not because it is still time for those people to be clear. It would have been best if this family had gone to Germany. That's a safe and neat country where you can get asylum. They would have gotten that, because we had already made agreements with Germany. We had even applied customization by bringing them close to the border, so that family visits were possible. Then this family could have gone into procedure in Germany and then those people could have integrated there, gone to school and moved on. The mayor made another choice. I disagree. That's what I told him myself. I spoke to him on the phone. He didn't tell me where those people are. He did make a comparison. I assume for a moment that he did not mean the link that Mr De Graaf has made, but the comparison can be understood as such. That wouldn't be appropriate. My people don't deserve that either. They just do their job, apply the rules in a proper way and treat people in a proper way, even if they go back to another country where they have applied for asylum under Dublin rules. If anyone disagrees, he can go to court and then judge whether my people have correctly applied the rules under my responsibility or not. If not, I accept that. If so, then everyone else should accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u3	That was an answer in a three-stage missile. I will try to deal with all three points at once. First of all, I think it is a weak attitude of the Secretary of State to say that the mayor has a different view than I do. If he has a different view of the rules in the Netherlands and how they are applied, the mayor, who is also head of a college of mayors and aldermen, must be kept to the law. The mayor has to keep the law, too. The Secretary of State must, together with the Cabinet, ensure that this mayor leaves Weert and that he can no longer be mayor in the Netherlands. That mayor's gonna figure it out, 'cause he's cheating on his own people. He undermines and undermines the law and does everything to make everything that is normal in the Netherlands become abnormal. This mayor gives a qualification for the departure of these people. They should leave and the Secretary of State disagrees with that qualification. No, it's a disgusting comparison, and I'm sticking to that remark. Finally. This situation would not have happened if we had not had the open border policy of the Netherlands and if we simply did not allow all those asylum seekers in the Netherlands. If there were shelter in our own region, we would not have had these problems. That is beyond the fact that the mayor has made mistakes and has to leave, but the borders must also be closed. Is the Secretary of State prepared to close the borders? Again, I want a clear answer: is he prepared to send the mayor away, to send him away or at least to do everything in his power? Is he willing to stand up for ordinary Dutch people? And the very last question, which I almost forget: how many mayors are there of whom we here in the Chamber do not yet know that they are breaking the law in the same way? After all, the offences committed by the mayors at the children's pardon are still fresh in memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u4	I am not aware of an exact similar case. The mayor has no role or authority in this process. It is my responsibility to check whether people applying for asylum have already registered with an asylum application in another country and to apply the Dublin claim. The mayor doesn't have to work on that, but he just doesn't have to do anything about it. At the moment when he facilitates people in frustrating the implementation of policies and rules, I do have a problem with that. That is why my colleague, Minister Plasterk, who has his role in this area, has formally asked the King's Commissioner for a comprehensive account of the facts; that is how it works. Minister Plasterk will look into what is appropriate and what is possible in the light of that account. I am sure he will also be prepared to inform the Chamber about this. As far as policy is concerned, this is an example that our borders are not fully open. So someone who comes in here and already registered in another country, we're sending them back. It's not like we're saying to these people, "Glad you're here," and we're not looking at where you've been before. Indeed, at the moment this could be much more difficult because registration has improved considerably in many countries between the country of origin and the Netherlands, because there is no free-way policy anymore and because people would be judged in Greece and returned under the agreements with Turkey in the event of crossing Turkey to Greece. The cabinet has therefore taken the necessary measures, which would also have an impact on such scenarios. We support these measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. Thank you, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u6	I think I have one final follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u7	Well, you have three seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u8	But I also have a follow-up question. We have two follow-up questions per group and this would be the last one. So, of course, I can still put it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u9	No, you really need to do that from the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u10	Okay, I'll walk over there in a minute. The last three seconds: the Secretary of State sells a fiasco as a success and he also supports the mayor, I hear in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u12	He supports him by saying that the mayor has no role and doesn't have to do anything. So he also confirms the slider the mayor made. That's incredible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u13	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u14	The Secretary of State is supposed to act and send the mayor away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u15	I shall now give the floor to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u16	A mayor who stands up with heart and soul for the safety of women and children living in Weert at that time deserves support, all support, and not the disgusting and ridiculous questions that the PVV has asked. My question to the Secretary of State is: are you prepared to give all the support from the cabinet to all the mayors who have not yet lost their hearts and souls?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mayors who haven't lost their hearts and souls yet... I happen to know none who have; let me put it first. And I support them, for example, in explaining to the people when a new asylum-seekers' centre is to be set up. I also expect them to support me if I want to implement the policy for which I am responsible and for which we have chosen here in the Chamber. As I said before, the mayor has no role in that. So he doesn't have to sign it, but he shouldn't be frustrating it either. That is why Mr Plasterk also said: I want to know exactly what happened, to see if this fits in with administrative relations. I hope that it will be understood that these people are simply offered security, asylum and a future in a neat country like Germany for the time they cannot go home safely, and that it is best for everyone if these people are to shape their years in Germany as quickly as possible. I think it's best for the family, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u18	A second supplementary question, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u19	In the past thousands of Limburgers have also had to go into hiding. It is brave when a mayor, in distressing cases, still has the courage to stand up for those people in circumstances. I think that the Chamber should give that space to the mayors in harrowing cases. I say it again: in distressing cases, the citizen's father, the father who has to take care of it, must be given the space to do what he has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u20	The word "shrinking" is very quickly glued to this situation. We're talking about Germany. Germany is a country that is now leading the way in receiving people and providing security and hospitality. We, as European countries, have also agreed rules to prevent, even in the interests of Germany, that people think, for example, after two years in Italy: gosh, I find it less here; I go to Germany, the Netherlands or Sweden. On the contrary, we need to share our duty to meet those who really have to flee war, to spread the rules across the European countries in a good way. This is about people who were indeed found in Weert to have started an application in Germany, which they should complete there. I don't think there's anything inhuman about asking people to enjoy security in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u21	The mayor of Weert has let his heart speak to prevent a refugee family from being pulled apart. He is supported by the local council and by the Dutch association of mayors. This Secretary of State says I disagree with him. But that is quite different from what the Minister of the Interior said last week. He said: it seems that he does not act within the framework of the law. I ask this Secretary of State: has the Minister of the Interior been in contact with the mayor of Weert? And has the Minister of the Interior actually been able to establish that this took place within or outside the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u22	If this were a nuclear family that would be taken apart, it would not work in court; so does Mr Sjoerdsma. But that's not what's going on here. Furthermore, I do express myself euphemistically when I say that I disagree with the mayor. That is a euphemistic way of saying that I am implementing policy on the basis of which this family has to go back to Germany. The mayor doesn't agree and blocks it. He thus frustrates the implementation of the law and the policy. The Minister of the Interior has therefore, according to the official channel for this, asked the King's Commissioner to take up his role there. That's the way it works formally. We must have a precise factual account of whether he is breaking the law and whether there is frustration of policy and the use of a power that does not exist. They're looking at exactly what's going on here. However, let me make it clear that I agree with the Minister of the Interior on the point that the mayor is doing something that is not in his book.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u23	That's kind of weird. The Minister of the Interior makes those statements without knowing exactly what is going on. He doesn't know that, because he's going to do research. The Secretary of State actually says the same thing: I don't know exactly what's going on and I want to investigate further. But he's pretty sure he doesn't agree with the mayor. In the context of a normal sound process and a normal sound analysis of what is happening, I would ask the Secretary of State to look at this matter again. Take another look at what the mayor really did. Look at the facts and the family. The Secretary of State is always talking about Germany, but is it really Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u24	As the case is now known, it is Germany. People can now, of course, bring up new information. If there is, they'll have to report it in court. That's how it's supposed to be in our rule of law. A decision shall be taken by the competent authority. This is my responsibility. The administrative Netherlands gives effect to this. If you don't, you go to court. That's the way it's supposed to go. I can give my opinion on the substance of the case as far as I know it. That was also where my qualification came from that the mayor did not play the role he could have taken and the question whether it is up to him to play this role. On the question of whether he has also broken the law, that was a follow-up question that was asked. I have not given a qualification. It's being investigated further. Apart from that, in the administrative Netherlands the responsibilities are divided. Someone who has no responsibility for something doesn't fit, except for a corridor to the judge, to ride in between when the competent authority simply does what has to be done properly. We have made agreements on this and there are simply legal remedies if people do not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u25	Everyone who acts in the Netherlands, even from the heart, has to comply with laws and regulations. It is therefore also possible to comply with judgments of a judge. Looks like the mayor of Weert didn't do that. It is very strange that just a director does not comply with what we have agreed on and ignores a judge's ruling and a decision by the Secretary of State. It is good to hear that the Minister of the Interior is preparing a fact-finding report to see exactly what has happened and that he is going down that road. If it turns out that there is frustration about regulation and implementation, I assume that the mayor will be called upon and addressed. There is something special about this process, namely a statement by the Dutch Society of Mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u26	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u27	That society states that it is up to the mayor himself to consider what he does and that it is his own responsibility. I think that's weird. What does the Secretary of State think of this ruling of the Dutch Society of Mayors? Can the mayor make his own assessment of how he deals with the regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u28	Formally, no. It is not that we have laws and regulations in this country and that the mayor can judge by municipality which laws apply and do not. I have interpreted that statement a little more informally, more like "if he's done something, he'll have to explain it himself." Formally, it is not the case that a mayor himself decides to what extent the Dutch law applies or does not apply in his own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u29	I have a point of order. This whole questioning thing is about someone who's not here, the mayor of Weert. I hear a number of colleagues here saying: looks like, looks like, looks like. The Secretary of State also does not know where the mayor is wrong at the moment; a mayor supported by the other mayors in the Netherlands and his own city council and population. If someone cannot defend himself here, we should not act on the basis of 'heard' or'said'. As President, you should defend someone if it is said: it looks like it. After all, in five, six, seven, eight answers the Secretary of State has not been able to prove where the mayor is wrong at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-17-tweedekamer-6.u30	You've made your point. I thank the Secretary of State. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments until we vote.
