ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Turkey, led by President Erdogan, continues to slide into a dictatorship of "one man, one person." The Turkish President is taking advantage of last summer's failed coup attempt to deal with everything and anyone who stands in the way of his sole rule. Last week, the editor-in-chief and eight other journalists from the independent and also one of the oldest newspapers in Turkey, Cumhuriyet, "Republic" and "Republic" were arrested on charges of terrorism and support for Gülen. Can Dündar, the journalist who announced that Turkish intelligence services might supply weapons to IS and other jihadist groups, lives apart from his wife in exile in Germany. Last Thursday night, more than nine MPs from HDP, the third largest opposition party in the Turkish parliament, were snatched from their beds in different cities with a lot of power and put in prison, including co-chairs Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. This happened again under the heading of combating terrorism. The attitude of our cabinet to Turkey has so far been weak, very weak, while everything points again to a political arrest. In the absence of any credible evidence of any involvement in terrorism, does the Minister condemn these arrests? Does the Minister intend to commit himself to the release of these and other representatives of the people? Is the Minister prepared to summon the Turkish ambassador? Everything that Turkey is doing at the moment is contrary to human rights, freedom of expression and independent justice. Not only does the cabinet want to bark, but finally bite? Can the cabinet immediately suspend accession negotiations with Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Karabulut for the questions. The government naturally shares the concerns expressed by Mrs Karabulut about recent developments. That is why my colleague Mr Koenders has called for a declaration, not necessarily from the Netherlands but, much more effectively, from the 28 Member States of the European Union. He not only insisted that that statement should be made, but also that it should be sharp. This statement is here now, too. I would like to mention a few points in that statement because they touch on the points made by Mrs Karabulut. The declaration states that extremely worrying developments weaken the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. The declaration also states that these developments compromise parliamentary democracy in Turkey, while strengthening tensions in the south-east of Turkey and further polarising Turkish society. The latest developments go very far. It was already worrying that the immunity of parliamentarians was lifted because of terrorist-related suspicions, which has affected HDP in particular, but of course this news is downright bad. The statement on this matter was issued this morning. It is also good to know that the Netherlands has already called for cooperation between the Council of Europe and Turkey. There is now a dialogue between the Council of Europe and Turkey. The Turkish Foreign Minister has been in Strasbourg to speak with the Council of Europe. It is mainly about the Venice Commission. It is mainly to monitor the freedom of expression of parliamentarians, an essential element of democracy. The Venice Commission has also expressed a critical opinion on this. In reply to Mrs Karabulut's question, the Netherlands may have gone a step further than she suggested by advocating that EU declaration. That statement has now been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	It doesn't stick with what I just mentioned. There have been reports of torture of prisoners arrested in connection with the failed coup. Tens of thousands of people have been arrested. There are more than 27,000 inmates. Dozens of journalists are in prison and 180 media organisations are closed, including even children's transmitters that exonerated the Smurfs. We're talking about a regime like this. The fight against terrorism is being raised as a smokescreen for gross human rights violations. This violates all the rules in a democracy and the values that this cabinet and the EU claim to uphold. I am very pleased that the concerns are shared and that they are described in a letter, but then Turkey's Foreign Minister is also very clear. He says that the EU has no right to lecture Turkey on the superiority of the rule of law and democracy. Bam! What does the Cabinet say? At present, the cabinet, like the EU, is still a barking dog. Turkey is moving on. Under these circumstances, the cabinet does not want to take any steps, it does not want to call on the Turkish ambassador and it still wants to continue with accession negotiations, but when has the border for the cabinet been reached? What should happen before the Cabinet finds that the red line has been crossed? If the cabinet and the EU still want to retain a shred of dignity in defending democracy and human rights, so that the Turkish minister can no longer extort us, then they must take real action. Otherwise, I wouldn't know where this whole game ends. This also undermines our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	Once again, we believe that it is much more effective to respond with 28 Member States to the extremely worrying developments in Turkey than to do so alone; let there be no misunderstanding about that. That's why we're committed to that. I think it is good to inform Mrs Karabulut that this week the regular progress report on the state of affairs in candidate countries will be published. That is an annual report from the EU. The Dutch Government will send an appreciation of that report to the Chamber. That's a good time to continue the conversation. Once again, however, the sharp statement made by the 28 Member States is very appropriate and cannot be put aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Minister, Prime Minister Rutte and the rest of this cabinet know as well as I do that this cabinet and the EU are currently being held hostage by Turkey. When will the Minister take the step to suspend accession negotiations? After all, everything that is happening now is at odds with our values.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	I have just indicated that the annual regular progress report will be published this week. We'll see what's in there. The government will respond to that. That is the time to go into Mrs Karabulut's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	The situation in Turkey is extremely serious. Imagine what impact it would have if the subject of the SP was arrested here because of the fact that one had a different view than the cabinet. We are talking about a country that wants to become a member of the EU and which is an ally of NATO. One of the people arrested is a colleague of ours in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. That's gonna get it real close. My question to the Minister is as follows. All these statements, all those concerns expressed earlier by the Foreign Minister, what do they matter, what impression that Turkey is not followed by action?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is clear that a statement by 28 Member States, in fact Turkey's neighbours, has an impact. Turkey is a country that is committed, which wants to play a role in international politics. It is clear that the sharp statement that has now been made by the EU will undoubtedly have an impact on the Turks. The discussion with Turkey on these worrying developments must, of course, continue. It is true that making a statement alone is usually not enough. Of course, there will be conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	I've seen the statement, too. The High Representative talks about the extremely worrying situation in Turkey. The Minister speaks of bad news when it comes to the arrest of HDP MPs. That's how we've heard more statements. On Wednesday, the progress report will be sent to the Chamber. What criteria do the EU and this government set as a measuring bar to stop the accession talks? A motion has been adopted in this Chamber, which states that we should stop already when it comes to the entry fees. But what criteria are being set?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u10	Perhaps in abundance: the cabinet carries out the Segers motion, but I do not anticipate our appreciation. The report will be published this week. It seems to me appropriate to continue the discussion on the basis of the facts as set out in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u11	Freedom of expression is the foundation of democracy. That goes for journalists. That goes for politicians. As Mrs Karabulut pointed out, Turkey has taken the wrong steps in this regard in recent weeks. Reporters have been arrested. A newspaper has been closed and politicians have been arrested, elected politicians, colleagues of ours in the Turkish Parliament. The rule of law is thus violated by the Turkish Government, by the Erdogan Government. When is the time when we say that we do not want to continue the accession negotiations with this Turkish Government? When is the time when we say: with this Turkish government we think that they should be suspended?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u12	I'm repeating myself. The moment to put that question in full focus is when we send the Chamber the appreciation of the progress report. This will undoubtedly include an up-to-date state of affairs. As a result of this appreciation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is very willing to answer this question further. The report's coming tomorrow. I trust we will send a letter to the Chamber very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you.
