ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. First of all, welcome to the G.J.'s 8th grade. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). But that's not what I'm here for. D66 has been very concerned about our housing market for years. One of the many problems is that our country hardly has a free rental sector. Only 5% of the housing stock is free rent. Of these, a minimum part belongs to the mid-segment of €700 to €1,000 per month, while there is a huge need for this particular segment. Last Friday, a survey came out showing that rents in the free sector are rising very rapidly, with 5% in the last year. In Amsterdam, even 10% in one year. The investigator notes that the market is unhealthy. That seems to me to be a fair conclusion. The result of this shortage: people who cannot or do not want to buy a house are in trouble. Those who have a social rental house do not flow through, resulting in huge waiting lists for up to ten years. According to research, therefore, in the coming years, 40,000 rentals in the free segment should be added. Fortunately, part of the solution seems to be close. We read today in De Financieele Dagblad that pension funds and insurers are pushing each other to rebuild homes, especially in the middle segment. They have 5 billion available for this. Unfortunately, they are put in the way by municipalities that refuse to release building land. The Minister has said that he has been arguing for more rentals in the free sector since he joined. Unfortunately, to date, this policy has had little effect. That's why I'm asking the Minister three questions. Does the Minister agree with D66 that the rental policy has not yet achieved the desired result and that the free rental sector is still too small? What's the Minister gonna do about it? Does the Minister intend to work with municipalities to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Koolmees drew attention to the shortage of rentals in the free sector, partly as a result of Pararius' research presented last Friday. Mr Koolmees rightly points out that for as long as I have been playing this role in the Chamber, I think that the free rental segment should be expanded. By the way, I do have a comment on Pararius' figures. The rent increases mentioned in the investigation are very different from what the Central Bureau of Statistics for 2015 shows. The CBS comes at 2.4% and that is a completely different percentage. However, this does not affect the analysis that I share, namely that there should be more free sector rentals. That is why, fortunately in general with the support of Mr Koolmees and his party, I have taken a number of measures in recent years to make the housing market healthier and, in particular, to create more free sector housing. One example of this is to make it clear in the Housing Act that housing corporations are only there for social housing, which makes it clear to commercial investors such as pension funds that they are exposed to fair competition and investment. This includes, for example, the adjustment of the housing valuation system, which includes the WPA value, which allows investments to be made more profitable. This includes the flow-through law, which we discussed extensively last week, which includes, among other things, an incentive for higher incomes to flow through, but also an additional supply, because temporary leases are possible under strict conditions. Mr Koolmees asks whether this will produce any results. The message he also referred to, namely that there is 5.5 billion available from private investors, shows exactly that there is indeed a result. I was at the meeting yesterday where that investigation was presented. Until a few years ago, Dutch pension funds also invested little in the Dutch free rental market, because they felt they had unfair competition from housing corporations or found the regulations unattractive, but now the money is ready. And how often do we in The Hague experience that the money is ready? There is indeed a great desire on the part of investors, namely to make sufficient land available. This means that, as far as I am concerned, the middle rental segment really needs to be included in the performance agreements that municipalities have to make under the new Housing Act. I translate that in a way that I sit around the table not only with investors to point out the opportunities that exist now, but also with municipalities to ask them to make the land available. For example, tomorrow I will be sitting around the table with the congregations from the North Wing to discuss precisely this problem. That is the region around Amsterdam, the area with the greatest scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	I thank the Minister for this answer. I recognise that much has happened in recent years to make the housing market work better. The money is there, the need for this kind of middle segment rentals is there, the waiting lists are long and the rent increases are large, but at the same time I note that only 16,000 of the total 60,000 building permits are focused on rentals. This really is a problem with the municipalities. The money is there, the need is there and yet it doesn't come off the ground. Now I read in De Financieele Dagblad this morning that Minister Blok does not intend to intervene if municipalities fail to do so. I find that a disappointing response, because I believe that the Minister for Housing and National Service has a coordinating role. He should aim to make the housing market work better and he should encourage the municipalities to issue these building permits. My question now is what the Minister intends to do, in concrete terms, in addition to all the discussions that are being held, so that we can make sure that 40 000 houses in the free sector can be built over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr Koolmees is right when he says that action is required from the municipalities. On the question of whether I would intervene urgently, I answered no. It does not fit in with the way in which we have organized it in the Netherlands that a city council from The Hague is told: you must or you must. We have arranged in the new Housing Act for every municipality to sit around the table with housing corporations, but also with other providers, and with tenants to fill in the demand for housing locally. After all, the question in The Hague is very different from that in Amsterdam, which is quite different from the question in rural areas. In the conversations I make, two things stand out. Some of the municipalities now have this demand for medium-priced rent on the retina. So you can see that great steps are being taken in Amsterdam. However, other municipalities are traditionally surrounded by housing corporations and offer the land far below market value or offer the rest at the highest possible price to the purchasing sector. Those municipalities really need to get on the retina that the middle segment is crucial. The second thing you notice in those conversations is that all the parties, both housing corporations and commercial tenants, are asking: involve us in the whole development of such a district; don't give us a snipe, we want to do a difficult piece if we also get a good piece. This cooperation, including with pension funds, has yet to be achieved by municipalities. We are helping them as part of the introduction of the Housing Act. We see the first results, but it has to be even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u5	This is a clear answer, but it is unsatisfactory. Yes, we agreed with each other that the policy would be designed locally. However, from the study presented yesterday, it can be inferred that there are indeed major obstacles at municipal level to making building land available for middle-rent housing. Sitting at the table is positive, talking is positive, but the Minister must also have plans as a coordinating minister to really pull this off. There is another motion by Mr De Vries on the construction of 100,000 homes in the coming years. Can the Minister make a plan to pull this off? Is he willing to send a letter to the Chamber informing us about this? Can he also comment on the research into this problem presented yesterday by Capital Value and ABF?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u6	In response to Mr De Vries' motion, I have a study to be carried out, the results of which come after the summer. I'd be happy to respond to Capital Value's research before the summer. An action I take but which has not yet been discussed is the provision of both land and vacant office buildings of the Empire. I just sold another office building in The Hague for housing. We have large areas available both in Amsterdam and at the former airport Valkenburg in areas where demand for housing is highest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u7	D66 is right to ask questions about the increase in rents, but it is a pity that we have not heard D66 in recent years. Rentals in the social sector have increased by 28%, partly thanks to the D66 policy, but also due to the fact that too little is being built. If too little is being built then you would expect the Minister for Housing to work together with the municipalities and housing corporations. Yesterday we received the news that too little is being built in the coming period. My question to the Minister is therefore why, as Minister for Living, he is not prepared to bring all these parties together and ensure that they are built, because more really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u8	The parties that have to build, I bring them together. I was just saying that yesterday I myself received the report in question for a room with investors who said: we believe in this policy; we do not only believe in it; we have 5.5 billion ready; we are just looking for the ground. That is why I am sitting around the table with churches and saying: there is money for you and, more importantly, you can make housing available for your people, but make that land available. Then the point of the housing corporations. This afternoon we are voting on a law that gives incentives to people on high incomes to flow through. The proceeds of this incentive are available to invest in new construction. I know that Mr Bashir, like me, considers new construction to be important. It is precisely this law that gives the incentive needed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u9	Cabbies are fast birds. This one took a question right in front of me...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u10	That's the way it goes sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u11	My angle is next. You can push at the front of the horse by looking to build more houses, especially in the free sector, but you can also pull at the back of the horse, namely in the sense of rent moderation. Last week, during the debate on the flow of the housing market, I tabled a motion to consider what we should do with the rental policy in the free sector. Is the Minister going to pull the horse on the other side, so that the rents in the free sector do not rise too far, which means that this flow is not going to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u12	I have already indicated that according to the Central Statistical Office, rents in the free sector have increased by 2.4% over the last year. So different percentages from the study of Pararius. The best way to avoid large rent increases is to ensure that there is sufficient supply. Then we are back to the core of this question. Investors are there; they're only looking for construction sites. And that is also the answer to Mr Van Vliet's question. There's got to be construction sites for those middle-priced rentals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u13	We are seeing a huge rise in prices. Of course, the main problem is scarcity. We need to build. I have a few questions about that. Does the Minister agree with me that all this requires a great deal of time and that in the meantime it is important that there should be a plea to moderate rents in the private sector? I'm really shocked by the height of the average rents. Let me ask you a few questions about the more active role for building. The Minister has done a great deal about conditional measures. Does this mean that funds will soon be used to build middle-priced housing throughout the country? Are these apartments with rents between €700 and €900? Will the municipalities now also make land available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-2.u14	We have agreed that, once the municipal performance agreements have been made on a large scale, I will report to the Chamber on their content. At the heart of the law is that it is a municipal task to look at how many and which types of housing are needed, but that we from The Hague are going to have you as a Chamber; as Minister, I will keep my finger on the wrist to see if that goes fast enough. As a result of the motion tabled earlier by Mr De Vries, I have already replied that after the summer the Chamber will be given an overview. The problem is not the investment will of pension funds; the problem is the availability of land. This autumn we'll see if that hallway goes in, otherwise we're going to push it even harder.
