ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Human has shown in a series of six episodes how violent the consequence is if you cannot pay your bills. The series, whose title Guilty assumes an admonition finger to people, as if having problematic debts is a free choice, impressed a lot of people. Whoever followed the show sees how fast you can get into debt. It can happen to all of us, and then you'll be so deep inside within the shortest time that you won't get out of it yourself. Every time it's poignant to see: Dennis from the pet store, Ramona and her husband Ron and Carmelita. That is why we asked for this review of debt policy last year. Simplifying the foot-free zone is a very important step. The bill is now in the Chamber. I hope that we will be able to deal with this very quickly. The breathing break that comes for people, I'm really happy about that. I hope that we will be able to deal with that bill very quickly. However, we are far from there. We have to be careful not to stick around in just talking, investigating and exploring. Take it in full with the different governments and help people out of debt. Is it not time for a national debt task force, a social government debt collection agency and a branch force to "prevent government debt"? How does the Secretary of State view this, knowing that the government turns out to be the biggest culprit of debt, no matter how well-meant our rules are? There are two other points in relation to those who are in debt. It is ridiculous that collection and litigation costs are rising very rapidly. Buying and trading debt records is big business in this country. That's a disgrace. There's a lot of money being made from people in debt. This has to stop. For small claims, as much as €40 per claim can be increased. The accumulation of these claims costs is even more reprehensible. When will there be a ceiling to stop these absurd amounts of recovery? When will the minimum of €40 be reduced? First people are seduced and then saddled with high interest rates and extra costs. Is that the point? Personal contact can prevent a lot of misery. It is best for everyone if the creditor and the debtor come into contact with each other quickly. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the fourteen days before the letter of formal notice is increased by collection costs do not become a long agony for debtors, but that this becomes a period in which the debtor and the creditor and the aid organisations can put their hands on it? What does the Secretary of State think of a municipal intervention team to establish contact between the debtor, the creditor and the various aid organisations in those fourteen days?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	You have used up all your speaking time at once, Mrs Yücel. Then you know that. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State. He can say anything, but you can't ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I will try to answer all the questions that have been asked in a timely manner at once. Mrs Yücel referred for a moment to the moratorium and the simplification of the unhindered foot. I can inform the Chamber that the AMvB on the moratorium lies with the Council of State. If the Council of State has advised us and we have finished the further report, that moratorium can be published in the State News. It doesn't have to go back to the room. The Court of Justice is responsible for simplifying the free-of-wound footage. I would like to ask Mrs Yücel and indeed the bailiffs have also asked the NVVK to deal with this simplification quickly. Mrs Yücel is calling for a national task force to prevent debt from arising and to ensure that debt is resolved as soon as possible. We have the Rijksincasso vision. I shared it with the Room, too. That's what we're gonna do. Prevention and early warning are a huge part of that. Mrs Yücel has shared with us everything by asking us for a cost-benefit analysis. That's on the track, too. I would like to take a closer look at a ceiling for recovery payments with my colleague from V and J. I thought it was a very warm, human series; can I also say that for a moment? I've really looked at three parts of this series with admiration. The people who appear in this documentary have to deal with this recovery. I would be happy to talk to my colleague about this. Last but not least, what are you doing in the period when you're being promised watch and you don't know what to do? We already have very good examples of municipal forms of intervention teams. You can see that in the series in the municipality of Amsterdam, but that also happens in other municipalities. I think it is a good idea that we should stress it again, because we have shown in the evaluation of the Municipal Debt Assistance Act that much is already going well, but that things can also be improved, especially in prevention and early warning. I would therefore very much like to take this request into account in this context, in order to show municipalities what such an intervention team could involve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs. Yücel, I hear you have one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	That was a mistake, thank God. You scared the shit out of me. It must be over with the strange habit of imposing fines after fines on people who cannot pay. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to make real haste to create the task force 'prevent debts, especially in the government', not only with civil servants, but also with people with their feet in the clay, who know how things are, from the outside to the inside. Otherwise, we won't break this. We all have well-intentioned rules, but they are too often counterproductive for far too many people. I'd really like that task force. I understand that the Secretary of State must have discussions with other colleagues, but I would very much like to see, if possible before 1 March, the progress of that consultation and its results here. And when are we finally gonna stop at the Tax Office, the Healthcare Institute and the CJIB stacking these administrative fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	In recent years, the Tax Administration, the CJIB and all kinds of other public authorities have started many forms of consultation on people with debt. They are already really enjoying the benefit of this. All kinds of payment arrangements have been agreed. So there are firm steps forward in that. When it comes to the national task force, I am very pleased that you are doing so with the people involved. This has led me, for example, to provide resources for the debate tour that is now being organised in the context of this beautiful documentary. I think it is very important that you also talk about debt to people throughout the Netherlands, because if people are facing debt or financial problems, then it is incredibly important that they seek help on time. Dennis, the boy from the pet store in the documentary, also said that if I had gone to the church earlier, I might not have gone that far away. I welcome the fact that prevention in this area is being addressed again in this Chamber and that we say to people throughout the Netherlands: if you are in debt, be on time and seek help, because there is indeed help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	I have to hand it to the Labour Party and the Secretary of State: you have to have guts when, as Rutte/Asscher cabinet, you are responsible for one of the biggest cuts in decades, which fall to people with the lowest incomes, when you are guilty of the fact that more and more Dutch people, like the people of Guilty in Amsterdam-North, continue to get into debt, become poor, work but still are poor...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	... here's gonna tell some sort of prom story and the Secretary of State is now on a tour to talk to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to ask the Secretary of State one question: does she acknowledge that she is guilty of rising debts and poverty, and if so, is she prepared to apologize for this almost at the end of her period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	I really must stress that this cabinet has done a great deal to provide assistance in this matter. I refer to the 100 million which has been used structurally for poverty and debt relief at first instance. I mention the 100 million that has been deployed in a structural way very recently to combat child poverty. We are also in the process of further improving the expertise in the area of debt relief. This cabinet has also used resources for this purpose. With regard to the income position and the provision of income for people, we have also significantly improved purchasing power, especially in the past year. Fortunately, people have some more money in their wallet and can actually act on it. So this cabinet has done a lot to help people. We've come a long way; that's true. In the first few years, of course, this cabinet also had to go to hell. I'm always very clear about that. But we help the people with the smallest wallets as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	No, Mrs. Karabulut. You have had the opportunity to ask your question. Everyone has the right to ask two questions, not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Yücel said: the government is the biggest cause of debt. That's a big deal. Actually, Mr Yücel, the spokesperson of the PvdA, says to the Secretary of State of the PvdA House that she has failed. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	This is a nice question. The government is quite broad in nature. Of course, there are many fellow governments, but I am not going to hide behind them. If people have money problems, so that they can't pay their taxes, their fines, their care payments, their rents or so on, the fact that we as a society want to ask them to do so. If people do not seek help quickly enough and the problems accumulate, then, of course, fines will be added. This cabinet has said that we are making an attachment register, so that these fines are not stacked on top of each other every time. That is why it would be so nice if the Chamber, if it could, with the help of Mrs Koşer Kaya, would like to deal quickly with the simplification of the unwound foot, because that would greatly help the people who are in debt. I've been picking up the glove the whole time, and I'm gonna keep doing it until the end of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	A second supplementary question from Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	In her explanation, the Secretary of State states that there are a lot of problems, but that she did not take them well. We've been four years. Where's the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	The solution lies in the fact that when people are in debt, they can knock on the door to the municipality. We really want to prevent people from falling into debt. I speak widely, because I know that this is not only the subject of Mrs Koşer Kaya's party, but is very widely shared in the Chamber. In recent years there has been an enormous amount of commitment, partly with the help of many institutions in the Netherlands. We have made funds available for this, such as community money. I cast the view that this cabinet would not have done anything on this point, far from it. But it is so, and it remains so, that people have to pay as much as possible for the claims they get on the doormat. However, no one has been kept to the impossible. I note that the Tax Administration, the CJIB and the health insurance companies make payment arrangements much more than ever with people who are unable to meet their accounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	Less than a month ago, I was promised by the Secretary of State that she would once again urge municipalities not only to help people in paid employment and people with benefits, but also to help the self-employed. It has to be, but it doesn't always happen; we both know that. I am very curious whether the Secretary of State has already made progress and, if so, what we can expect from it. My main question, however, is the following. We still know usury interest rates, mostly at mail order companies. Can't we do something about that? Because that would really help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	That was also one of the issues raised by Mrs Yücel. I can easily say that this is a market issue, but I know that Finance and V and J will certainly continue to look into it. After all, this remains a matter for which you must be very afraid. That is why it is so important that people should not be fooled and that we should help people. Our society has become quite complex. If people aren't sufficiently equipped to understand things properly, you can turn a wheel in front of them. That happens sometimes, and we must prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	I am missing the answer to my first question: when are we going to hear about the consultation that the Secretary of State will have in order to remind municipalities that self-employed people really need to be able to contact them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	I happen to have done so recently and will report to the Chamber how the municipalities will react.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u23	Of course, GroenLinks welcomes the proposals on the free-of-wound foot. I note, however, that it took three or four years for the Secretary of State to come forward with these proposals. That was only after Mrs Schouten threatened to come forward with an initiative proposal. I even understand that this proposal has been tabled. Those proposals are now in place, and that is good. Of course we'll get to work on it soon. I would like to know what the cabinet is going to do to ensure that people who are in a financial tighter situation do not get any tighter. Look at the cost-sharing standard. It is a policy choice of this cabinet that brings people into poverty. I would very much like to hear from the cabinet what measures it is taking. The choices have now mainly been made with the advantages of higher incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u24	We have, of course, also shown on our last Princess Day what we are all doing within the budget to support the lower incomes: the increase in the rent and the care allowance. Purchasing power, fortunately the purchasing power of lower incomes, is really going up. That insight will soon be given to the Chamber. It is important for everyone involved in debt to have a job. Fortunately, employment in our country is attracting. We have seen recently that 150 000 additional jobs have been created in one year. Those are new jobs. That's a relief for people. The cabinet does a lot for people with the smallest wallets to back them up, but I insist that it is extremely important that we also continue to do a lot in prevention, including in schools. The cabinet has done a lot about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u25	Your second supplementary question, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u26	The fact that more jobs have been created and that people have improved in purchasing power is largely due to economic developments. That is not the policy of the cabinet, but, for example, the cost-sharing standard is the policy of the cabinet. I ask the Secretary of State to take action on that. If you don't, you can't be surprised that people get into debt after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u27	We've made concessions to people on the basis of the Tax Plan. The lower salaries really benefit from that. Those are indeed rules that the cabinet has proposed and which the Chamber has happily supported. On that basis, the lowest incomes are also better off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u28	The Secretary of State has stated several times in this Question Time that the quality of debt relief and prevention can be improved. The VVD has been calling that for years. Before the summer, I tabled a motion, which was adopted by the Chamber, in which I asked the government to consider the effectiveness of financial education. I wonder what's going on with that. In addition, I asked the government to look at the quality of debt relief. Before you can do anything about it, you're gonna have to measure it. I have already suggested in an AO that a measuring tool should be developed to determine the quality of individual debt relief workers. How's that going? I have seen an example that shows that nothing has been done with the latest version of the booklet "Knotting the Ends," which I regret.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u29	The quality of the debt relief and in any case the insight is part of Mr In 't Veld's research that I have sent to the Chamber. He was there for the babysitter. We continue with the cost-benefit analysis. Of course, debt relief is part of this. And I've sent the Chamber the evaluation of municipal debt relief. In this context, I have said that the inspection will look closely at access to debt relief. We will, of course, amend the law if there are real reasons for doing so. I also informed the Chamber that the inspection could not really show that access would not be guaranteed in its entirety, which gives the public courage. But every time we look at the quality of debt relief in the broad sense of the word. By the way, there may also be people who volunteer, which is also a great asset.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u30	I didn't get an answer to my question. My question was whether the quality of debt relief is measured...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u31	Yes, but the longer the interruption is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u32	Is the effectiveness of educational interventions measured? Is it being evaluated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u33	I have dealt with the fact that, of course, we are trying to provide insight through the research I have just mentioned. To accurately measure the quality of debt relief, you need to create a whole new instrument. So we don't have that. It is really up to the municipalities to do that: we have decentralised that. I want to try not only to give the Chamber a good insight but also the rest of the country. That is what I want to do through this cost-benefit analysis, and that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u34	Following the series on debts which was indeed good and also intrusive, a discussion with experts took place yesterday at Pauw. They indicated that there is still a great deal to improve. One of their points is that home expulsion should be avoided when children are in play. The cost of a home eviction can be up to €10,000. That's a lot of money. In addition, you get a lot of social misery for that family and the cost of social care. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that there is a rule that there will be no expulsion if there are children involved? If so, will she propose this together with her colleague in the field of security and justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-20-tweedekamer-3.u35	We are glad to see that in many municipalities there is an early approach. This prevents home expulsions. Mrs Schouten is quite right when she says that it is very intense when there is a expulsion when children are involved. You can see that with this preventive measure it goes early: corporations indicate that there is a two-month delay in rent and you can immediately go on to prevent home expulsion. Corporations are really very much in favour of this, including financially. That is exactly what Mrs Schouten says. But, of course, it is mainly about the people involved. I would like to look with my colleague from Wonen and Rijksdienst to see if we can take another step in this direction in order to encourage this form of prevention. Maybe we can do this at the end of the ride. I say this carefully, because I sincerely do not know whether this could be done in the short term and what you need for it. Maybe at the end of the ride we can really prevent families from being thrown away by adults with children. I say again that I cannot commit to this. However, I would like to talk to my colleague about this.
