ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u1	Can I ask Members who leave the Chamber because of committee meetings to do so as quietly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Addressing the climate issue is the greatest challenge facing global society. Reducing global warming is an absolute necessity to keep the world habitable for people. The fact that this certainly applies to our own delta vulnerable to sea levels and floods has almost become a cliché, a cliché based on a reality that no longer tolerates the postponement of measures. Fortunately, the world recognizes that. This gives me reason to quote with approval the visit of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who visited our Parliament last week and stated with a sense of urgency that a record number of countries would sign the Paris climate agreement. That happened last Friday in New York by 171 countries. 18 countries still follow. Never, as the Secretary-General told us, did more countries sign an international agreement in one day. Perhaps it is also a record that the distance between a great international agreement and what ordinary people are going to notice in everyday life and yet to notice measures, has never been so small. In this context, it is nice to quote our own Prime Minister, Rutte, who said at the Paris climate summit: this plan can only work if it penetrates the deepest roots of our society. Well, we have such a carrot today. At the heart of all international climate plans is the reduction of CO emissions. It is no secret that in our country the energy efficiency of the housing stock is an absolute necessity to achieve our national goals, which are still too modest. The energy efficiency of corporate housing will therefore have to be taken into account as far as we are concerned. In this area we can make meters, especially in the older housing stock, where we are still far from "zero on the meter" or even label A or B. The goal of the Energy Agreement is that corporate housing has average energy label B by 2020. No hard targets have been set for zero-on-the-meter houses. The market goes for 110,000 homes at that time. That's a lot of houses, but in percentages it's only a modest share of the housing stock. This law provides that landlord and tenant make agreements with each other on a fee paid by the tenant to the landlord in the event of major renovation and energy measures. What the tenant saves on the energy bill, the landlord can collect to finance the energy measures, provided that tenant and landlord agree on this. My group can wholeheartedly support this principle, but we do have the necessary questions about the ambitions and the drafting of this law and about the protection of the tenant. I'll start with that last one. As far as my group is concerned, the need to invest heavily in energy saving in the corporation stock is paramount, but there must be a good balance between ambition and the need to protect tenants with a small stock exchange, who have already suffered substantial rent increases in recent years, from excessive remuneration. In the energy performance agreement, there is no longer an objective gas and electricity meter, which records and settles consumption, but the remuneration arises for the tenant difficult to read heat demand at the house. We ask the Minister to clarify once again how the tenant can establish that his property is rightly eligible for an epv and how he can see whether the fee requested is reasonable and appropriate. In this context, could the Minister also explain how the De Vries motion was put to the cabinet. about implementing the housing security? We consider the scheme designed by Aedes and the Housing Association to be a good basis for ensuring that tenants do not face unreasonable rising costs in the case of equal living behaviour. Does the Minister agree? If so, how are we going to see this reflected in the forthcoming General Measure of Governance? My group would also like to know what will happen if, over time, it becomes apparent that actual consumption is out of line with pre-calculated theoretical consumption. If living comfort and/or energy saving are disappointing in practice, what can the tenant do? Does he find support in this law? I'd like to get a reaction to that, too. That brings me to our second point. In fact, the law now before us is not much more than a framework law. As with the Environment Act adopted here recently, the establishment and implementation of the measures are not regulated here and now, but by AMvB. Why does the Cabinet choose this? Does the Minister not agree with my group that both tenants and landlords know much better what they are up to and that the basics of the arrangements that define the epv and the underlying values are simply regulated by law? In any case, we would simply ask the Minister to confirm once again that the Chamber is being informed of the follow-up steps taken by the Minister. Finally. The starting point of this law is to facilitate that landlord and tenant can make agreements on the financing of significant, energy-saving measures. Once again, we welcome that. However, we do not see the ambition of the cabinet itself with this law. Are we going to leave it all to the market or is there an underlying quantified ambition in which the cabinet is putting its teeth in order and which encourages the parties to actually achieve it? On this point, too, we would like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. When I examined this bill, I asked myself whether this bill deserves the predicate. In doing so, I was triggered by the annual report of the Council of State 2015 entitled "The rule of law should not be a closing point for decision-making'. It makes a number of basic comments which apply precisely to this bill. I should also like to remind you of the words you said yourself when you said goodbye to Mr Hendriks last year. At that time, you noted that the States-General has an important responsibility to ensure that proper legislation is put in place. In my opinion, that question is now before me. Is this proper legislation or not? The legislative proposal does not comply with the basic principles of proper legislation for a number of reasons. Let me explain. First of all, it should be noted that the government, without any obvious need, pointed out by the previous speaker that the legislative proposal in itself has not been simple in two, perhaps three parts: a framework law, a hull law, on which we have to judge today, and an AMvB, which contains the essentials of the legislative proposal, the real content, and on which we cannot judge directly today. This may then be followed by ministerial arrangements, which are not submitted to this Chamber at all. Certainly, it is true that the AMvB will later be dealt with by means of the increased suspension procedure in this Chamber, but that later procedure is not equivalent to the adoption or rejection of the legislative proposal as a whole. If today this Chamber only approves the framework of the law, which is apparently the intention, the Chamber will be curtailed in my opinion in its legislative powers, as the Chamber will later be heard about the AMvB only by the government. That's completely different. The Court does not have the power to reject the AMvB as such and therefore to hold it back if its content would not be acceptable to the Chamber. This means that, by adopting only the framework law today, this Chamber is denying itself the power to judge and approve the whole law at once, including the AMvBs, as a whole law. I'd like to hear from the Minister if I can see that correctly. Is it true that, if the Chamber adopts this law today, the Chamber will no longer have the power and power to reject and stop the AMvB if necessary? In that case, is it the case that the Minister is free, even though he has heard the Council of State and heard the rain crawling against the window, to set up and issue the AMvB and the ministerial directives outside the Chamber as he sees fit? Secondly, I note that the Minister has not demonstrated why the legislative proposal cannot simply be presented to Parliament as a whole. I would like to hear from the Minister what he considers necessary in this case for the division of this complicated legislative proposal. I am aware that in the legislative process there may be a situation in which it is understandable and desirable to regulate certain technical implementation details at AMvB, but these should be minor points, which do not touch the core of the law. Such a situation does not arise because the implementing arrangements, which still have to be implemented, deal with crucial aspects of the legislation. Can the Minister justify what insurmountable disadvantage would be suffered if we treated and assessed the law as a whole in this Chamber? I would like to hear whether the Minister shares the opinion of our group that, apart from exceptions, from the point of view of the rule of law, it should be normal practice for this Chamber to be able to assess a legislative proposal as a whole and, if necessary, to reject it. If not, why not? If at a later stage this Chamber can still condemn the AMvB and thereby actually stop the law, then I would like to hear it from the Minister. Thirdly, I believe that the bill, including the AMvB, is at odds with the rule of law, because many essential elements of the law have not been sufficiently worked out or are not sufficiently clear. As a result, society is in danger of being saddled with incomplete legislation, which, in my opinion, will lead to a lot of discussion, disagreement and litigation in practice. Before explaining this problem on the basis of a few examples, I would like to point out that the SP Group wholeheartedly supports the primary objective of this legislative proposal. We are very much in favour of it, but there is a long way between the primary objective and the impact. We still believe it is very important from an environmental point of view that energy-neutral housing should be built where possible and feasible. I want to make no mistake about that. So we think the starting point is very good. But now the effect. This important objective is not easy to achieve, as the first practical experience has shown. There appear to be a lot of technical and legal problems in realising energy-neutral housing, for example the complex calculation system, which is not easy to solve. This is reflected in the answers to the many questions that have been put to the Minister. The Minister's answers are not always convincing and sometimes even evasive. All too often he makes use of the remark that the practice is complicated. We agree on this and that the tenants and landlords should only get out by mutual agreement, if necessary through the Rent Committee or the judge. We are not happy with that, because we do not believe that this is appropriate legislation. After all, it is up to the legislator to ensure a proper and unambiguous law and not to burden society with unreasonable provisions and unnecessary conflict. Unfortunately, in this case, I have to say that this bill does not meet that condition. As a self-respecting legislative body, this Chamber cannot, for that reason, accept this bill. I will explain this further on the basis of the following. According to the proposal, Article 7.255 BW will provide that, on the basis of measures leading to an improvement in housing, the rent will be increased by an amount that is reasonably proportionate to the cost of the operation. This raises the question of what to mean by a reasonable relationship. I note that questions were raised when the legislative proposal was examined, but the Minister's answers to these questions, in particular as regards the method of calculation and its consequences for tenants, are not sufficient and convincing. In an explanatory statement, the Minister stated that the maximum level of the energy performance compensation, i.e. the EPV, is based on the heating demand of the house and the generating capacity of the house rather than, as at present, a variable amount. This fundamentally deviates from the current method of calculation. The Minister adds that as a starting point the aim is to maintain the same housing costs for the tenant. In my opinion, that is precisely where the problem lies. What is a tenant going to buy for the landlord's announcement that he has sought to maintain the same housing costs if he still gets extra housing costs because of the epv? This problem also arises when determining the EPV itself, working with a fixed average rate. For example, a tenant who is economical and who now has low heating costs is treated to higher housing costs after renovation because of the so-called average epv. Can the Minister explain to us why that would be reasonable and why a tenant would have to pay a fee higher than his current heating costs? Does the Minister share our view that such a negative outcome is certainly not an incentive for some of the tenants to agree to renovation and the EPV? I would point out that the Minister himself states in the explanatory statement that the renovation of houses into very energy efficient dwellings is attractive to the tenant if the tenant's housing costs remain on average about the same. Can I conclude from this, I ask the Minister, that if the tenant's housing costs increase by renovation, the chance that the tenant does not agree to the renovation will increase and therefore also the chance that he may be awarded the right? I like to hear it. Furthermore, we note that the Minister has to deal with these foreseeable problems as a result of the incomplete law, a law which I believe is still flawed, that tenant and landlord have to solve it together and that they can, if necessary, go to the Rent Commission or to the judge. In my opinion, this will usually mean that the tenant loses out in daily practice, with a higher rent and a legal hangover. That is not acceptable in our view. It is the legislator's job to ensure a clear, clear and reasonable law. This cannot and must not be done by the legislator to the tenants or the judiciary. Does the Minister share that opinion? For these reasons, we believe that the proposal before us falls short. That is why the SP Group cannot support this bill in its present form. I would also like to point out that last week in the Lower House a preliminary discussion on the AMvB by several parties, including the PvdA and the SP, found that it is not a good idea that "the residents of a house that is being renovated do not get the assurance that they do not go backwards in housing costs'. In my opinion, this means that the tenant in question will not receive higher rent charges if his property is renovated and made energy efficient. That is why Mr A. de Vries of the PvdA Group on the other side, with the support of our group, also on the other side, has tabled a motion. It invites the government to make a guarantee of living expenses compulsory under the ministerial rules. I also refer to the note following the report of 8 December 2015. In it, the Minister wrote on page 10 that a fee, based on the amount of €1.40 per square meter per month, enables landlords to make large investments in a house, whereby the renovation by the landlord can take place with equal housing costs. Same living expenses, he wrote there. This shows that the Minister assumes equal housing costs for the tenant after renovation. If the Minister informs the Chamber in black and white, then he can now reasonably not object to the fact that the guarantee of living expenses is laid down in the law? That's what I'm asking him. Or should I consider the Minister's statement in the aforementioned note to be unwritten or not intended? I like to hear it. Furthermore, in the same note, the Minister states that the starting point of the Accelerator is capitalised, i.e. that the renter's monthly expenses after renovation are no higher than the cost of his current energy bill. The latter is therefore perfectly in line with what is described in the above motion as a guarantee of living expenses. It therefore seems perfectly understandable to me that this motion proposes that this principle should be enshrined in the law for tenants. Why isn't that happening? Why does the Minister see that differently now than apparently a few months ago? I like to hear it. I urge the Minister to reconsider his position in the light of the above. I will conclude by referring to another passage from last year's speech, 11 December 2015, in which he noted a number of commendable things about the position and the role of Parliament. I quote. "Legislation is conceived in the vast majority of cases in ministries initiated by directors. Then legislative lawyers and policy makers put together the bill and then it is up to Parliament, after consultation with the social and professional groups such as the NSA and after consulting the Council of State, to assess whether the bill also complies, and on points like: is this what we want to go to, is this in the interests of the citizen and the future of our country, are the legal rules sufficiently clear and can the bill pass the test of fundamental principles and values?" Madam President, I would like to invite the Minister to respond to these reflections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Ruers. I'm not responding. I give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about energy performance compensation agreements between landlords and tenants, in short, in ordinary people's language: through sustainable renovation of rental homes, energy costs have to go to zero and the tenants no longer pay energy bills to an energy company, but instead a compensation to their landlord. These are so-called zero-on-the-meter houses. The tenant must allow a major renovation to his rental house, but eventually get a modern, isolated, more comfortable home in return, at least that is the intention. The more than 600 zero-on-the-meter renovations that have been achieved show that a good idea on the drawing table often does not work very well in practice. A problem which, by the way, affects more projects in the green religion, such as the scorched windmills, which still rely only on subsidies. There are now numerous examples where tenants leave behind after the sustainable renovation of their home with so many problems that there is hardly any question of rental pleasure. Afterwards, many tenants also regret their agreement to the renovation. For example, there is the area in Tilburg where residents were so literally in the cold after the renovation in their zero-on-the-meter house that they had to reheat with petroleum heaters. Or the Drentse Nieuw-Buinen, where residents don't turn a blind eye because of the noise of the newly installed balance ventilation. For example, there are more projects that are going to be disappointed. There is a flood of complaints, but residents are hardly taken seriously. The reaction of participating corporations and construction companies is often: "Well, the noise isn't so bad" and "you just have to learn how to deal with a modern home" or "we'll get used to it." If the problems are already recognised, they often eliminate construction companies and corporations with "child diseases are inherent in such an innovative project" and "there is a lot of work to be done to solve all the problems." But even before everything is well and well fixed, they are now simply starting new renovation projects, because the green prestige project called appropriate Stroomaccelerate, continues unabated. After all, the goal is to have 111,000 rentals refurbished in a sustainable way in 2020. So there are still a lot of tenants waiting for a lot of trouble. My group is very concerned about this. In response to these concerns, the Minister said that in the case of renovation, a tenant will have to agree to a renovation up to zero-on-the-meter house. If previous experiences show that tenants are dissatisfied, it will usually be more difficult for the landlord to obtain the necessary consent for the further roll-out of the project or for a subsequent project. In short, the tenant can also refuse permission, but I find that a little too easy. In this way, the Minister ignores the roaring advertising talk that seduces tenants and the accompanying cheer leaflets that especially highlight the benefits of the sustainable renovation, which persuades the tenants to agree to the renovation. The fact that in many cases these are residential complexes of corporations, often with dozens of homes being renovated at the same time, also contributes to the pressure on individual tenants to agree. After all, if all your neighbors in the housing block have agreed, it will be very difficult to refuse as the only one. The Minister also always stresses that the project's ambition to accelerate 111,000 zero-on-the-meter homes by 2020 is an initiative of market players. That may be the case, but the legal regulation of energy performance compensation agreements gives it a very strong government stamp. I would like the Minister to acknowledge that. I also ask him if he thinks that tenants get honest and complete information in advance about the consequences and possible problems that a zero-on-the-meter renovation can bring and whether he sees opportunities for improvement. "zero on the meter" works too often not or not well enough, a problem that is more common with new techniques in construction that are already implemented before they are properly tested and developed and therefore cause a lot of misery to residents, who are actually used as guinea pigs. In this green-religious prestige project, residents are the weaker party, which is now being pushed aside too easily by corporations and construction companies as whiny bitches. This happened a few years ago in the new building district of Amersfoort Vathorst. Do you remember? The residents there were literally sick of their brand-new, afterwards misinstalled, energy-efficient balance ventilation systems. Finally, as a resident of a house with balance ventilation, I would like to give the following tip to the tenants who have to decide on approval for a sustainable renovation. Put a day and a night on the vacuum cleaner in the hallway! If you can live well with that and sleep well despite the sound, you are ready for a sustainable renovation. If not, just say no and stand firm in front of the housing corporation, no matter how difficult that may be. The PVV believes that the green religion has already made enough victims. We always argue for a separation of Church and State, as well as for a separation between the green church and State. As long as the childhood diseases involved in this technique have not been adequately addressed, no zero-on-de-meter projects should be launched in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u6	Madam President. This bill has been welcomed by my group. During the written preparation we asked some questions. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which was convincing and rapid in our opinion. Builders and corporations insist on urgency. They want to get to work. It is therefore a good thing that we are discussing this bill today, thanks to everyone who has contributed to it. This bill makes a major contribution to energy saving. At first, this is for single-family homes and terraced houses. Offices and apartment blocks are due later. It is an initiative of builders and corporations, united under the name "Power Acceleration." They deserve to be congratulated, in particular the Chairman, Leen van Dijke. It provides energy saving, it is good for employment, it promotes innovation in construction and it offers benefits to tenants and landlords. Tenants get a complete renovation without rent increase. With good energy use they get lower burdens. Landlords get an improvement in their housing stock, on balance at no cost. It's almost too good to be true. And indeed, it's not all roses and moonshine. There are also some drawbacks: the opinion of the Council of State, children's diseases and doubts about the basis of support. The Council of State advised to waive the epv and to settle the investment through rent increase. This advice was not followed, because the epv is a right-wing sui generis. That is right, in my group's view, also in view of the adverse effects on the rent payment and the appropriate allocation. Furthermore, there are quite a few childhood diseases, for example in Tilburg and Nieuw-Buinen. There are also a number of cases where the budget is not conclusive. On the other hand, it does succeed in other cases, such as in Soesterberg and Heerhugowaard. That gives my group the confidence that childhood diseases can be overcome at local level. In addition, "zero on the meter" with epv is a legal possibility; it is not an obligation. There has been a number of doubts about the acceptance of tenants. Two proposals have been made to meet this. The first proposal is a guarantee of housing costs, which should ensure that the tenant does not in any case incur higher charges. The second proposal is to pay directly to the tenant a sum of money. The first proposal, a residential guarantee, encounters privacy concerns. How can there be proof of constant living behaviour? For this it is necessary to penetrate deeply into the private life of the tenant. My group does not think that this is proportionate. And if constant housing behaviour has been proven, what reason could the housing costs still go up? I can only imagine technical errors or miscalculations. Of course, they must be restored; that goes without saying, see also the reply, page 4, second paragraph, but that is more correction than guarantee. Should the landlord not voluntarily cooperate in correction, the tenant can go to the Rent Committee. The second proposal, a direct financial contribution to the tenant, calls into question my group. The tenant has the right to object and not to participate. The decision whether to use that right should remain pure. That right to object is not a commodity. That is why my group doubts whether this is the right way forward. In any case, both proposals, the guarantee of housing costs and the financial contribution, have one disadvantage in common. Both must eventually be paid by the landlord or the builder. That means that their budget is no longer closed. Then they won't be able to pay for the zero-on-the-meter renovation, so they're gonna give it up. That is a consequence that my group does not like to take on board. We believe that the benefits of zero-on-the-meter renovation are clear to everyone. Some successful renovations are going to make this visible. As a result, the support base will grow: good example does follow well. The pipeline of the regulated sector is full of new things: business cases, hallmarks, review rental fee and review housing valuation system, and epv at label jumps. These are all important matters, but we must not wait for them. Builders and corporations want to get to work now. They are only waiting for the legal basis. In the end, we are now laying down a few articles of law, but the great work is yet to come. My group would like to give room for this. After all, the benefits outweigh the possible disadvantages. And fortunately, our country counts a lot of terraced houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u7	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u8	I give the floor to the Minister for Housing and National Service for his first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. Mr Lintmeijer, as the first speaker, rightly started with the connection between the importance of climate policy and the law we are discussing today. With Mr Lintmeijer, the cabinet believes that climate is one of the most important challenges facing us in the Netherlands. Among other things, the law that we are discussing today contributes to achieving the climate ambitions from the energy agreement that the cabinet has concluded with many social parties and ultimately also to the part that the Netherlands wants to contribute to reducing the warming up of the atmosphere. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether there were quantifiable objectives in this context. That's the case. For this part, we join the objective of the project Streamspeed itself. Its ambition is to bring 111,000 homes to "zero on the meter" by 2020. In the case of the '2020' we must now make a move, because the run-up path has been somewhat delayed. However, this does not reduce ambition. Indeed, Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked for this project to be a project from society, of housing corporations and builders together. It is not a project that started here in The Hague, not from politics and not from ministries. This gives me an extra enthusiastic feeling, because it brings about a lot of important societal developments and a lot of innovation. For example, the first plane was not a government idea, nor the first phone or the first computer. However, at a time when important initiatives are starting in society, the government can play an important driving and facilitating role. I also see the role of the government in this project, where the legislation has not been explicitly attributed solely to Accelerating Power, as a matter of fact. Indeed, it is very good that alternative initiatives to achieve zero-on-the-meter housing can also be implemented within the existing rules. But honor who deserves credit, Accelerating is the largest and most visible project we know at the moment. However, I sincerely hope that many others with new techniques will choose the same route. Following this introduction, I would like to classify the answers to the questions as follows. First of all, I would like to address the questions concerning the legislative technique, then the questions about the technique of the energy performance compensation and the information to the tenant, then the questions about the housing costs and finally a number of questions in various areas. First of all, I come to talk about the design of the law and the AMvB. Both Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Ruers replied. They asked if this is a usual way. My answer to that is complete: yes. As a general rule in legislation, but also specifically in legislation on living and renting, the choice is always made, both by this cabinet and in the past, to lay down the overall regulatory framework in legislation, but as soon as the impact is more technical in nature and therefore may need to be adapted more frequently under the influence of societal developments, to regulate it at the level of a General Administrative Measure. The AMvB under this law is now before us. So the room knows him, too. In the meantime, the First Chamber has also asked questions about it. So in this debate, Members can assess both the law and the associated AMvB. They can also see that the AMvB contains such things as the precise technique, for example on how collective heat generated is handled and the pricing used. So that is typically the type of subject that is regulated by lower regulation, not because there is less control of it, but because the procedure for amending it is more transparent. The law itself regulates the anchoring of the new system of calculating part of the cost of living. Mr Ruers asked whether this did not conflict with the Council of State's view on the way in which sound legislation should take place. The Council of State's opinion on this law shall be public. Dictum three is given. So that's not an advice that says don't do it. The opinion does not go so deeply into the distinction between the law and the General Measure of Governance, but asks to explain again why the energy performance is offset separately from the rent. It is precisely in this opinion of the Council of State, which I discussed in detail in the further report, that I do not read that the chosen division between law and general measure of governance would be incorrect or unjust. Mr Ruers also asked about Parliament's ability to intervene in an AMvB. That possibility is, of course, different from that of a law, but the pending procedure is certainly appropriate in order to be able to ask additional questions. I believe that Mr Ruers himself has made use of it and, if necessary, to inform the government of the views of the Chamber. This can be done in this debate, but also during the remaining pending procedure. Following this comment on the chosen legal technique, I come to the questions about the energy performance compensation itself and how the tenant gets sufficient information about it. Mr Lintmeijer was also the first to ask questions about this. He asked how a tenant can assess whether the performance of the new techniques in the house is in accordance with the pre-arranged agreements. First of all, the landlord will really have to convince the tenant of the desirability of the renovation. In case of renovation in an individual house the consent of the relevant tenant is required. In the event of a complex being rebuilt, the consent of at least 70% of the tenants is required. The tenant therefore has a very strong position in whether or not to allow the renovation to continue and will only allow it to continue if the landlord can properly justify the expected costs of the energy performance compensation. Knowing Dutch people, I think they will actually make the sum and compare those costs with the energy costs they are paying now. Of course, they will also assess what their home looks like and what the comfort of that home will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u10	I hear the Minister saying that it is important that there is conviction, that the tenant is informed by the landlord and that it is told in advance what the renovation means for the rents or the housing costs. I am aware that energy performance compensation projects are currently being carried out, in which the tenants have been asked in advance for exactly the information that the minister now mentions, but where the landlord says: that can't be done, let's get started and then we'll see how the rental price comes into being and what the housing costs are. Does the Minister consider that a normal course of action or does he say that this is appropriate to the energy performance compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u11	Mr Ruers is now setting out a procedure that I am not personally involved in. But as he describes it, first of all, I don't think there's much chance that the tenants will agree to it. Secondly, the law and the AMvB have not yet entered into force, and that may explain part of the second part of Mr Ruers' speech. Formally, a landlord may not yet mention the amounts until the law and the AMvB have been passed. But more importantly, I think the first point is that I do not think that many tenants will agree without clarity about the consequences. I have just indicated, in response to a question by Mr Lintmeijer, although Mr Ruers' contribution also covered this point in detail, which is already in need of extensive information before conversion. This also applies after the conversion, because an annual overview of the energy consumed has to be provided. If the tenant finds that the performance is not expected, he can first, on the basis of the actual energy consumption, go to the landlord: this does not correspond to what we have agreed, so correct the fee or take additional remodeling measures. If the tenant and landlord do not get out of there, then the way is open to the Rent Committee, a procedure that is easily accessible to settle such a dispute, and ultimately to the judge. In short, there is a large information obligation for the landlord throughout the entire journey and sufficient resources for the tenant to stand up for his interests. Mr. Lintmeijer asked what the tenant could do if the costs differ. That's the whole route of first asking the landlord to take measures until they go to the Rent Commission and if necessary to the judge. Mr Ruers pointed out that the calculation system was complicated. I agree with him, if you look at the sums behind it. It is very important that they are public. However, the outcome is not complicated, namely the maximum amount that the landlord may calculate under this law. In this sense, it is not very different from, for example, the housing valuation system. I do not often manage to explain to a room interested people the functioning of the housing valuation system. Yet everyone is satisfied with it, because we have a transparent system which ultimately leads to clarity about the maximum rent to be calculated. That's a good way for all of us to get out of here. Mr Ruers asked why a fixed rate was chosen and not a variable rate. The fixed rate is in the interest of both the tenant and the landlord. The tenant has security about the rate. This does not, of course, apply at a variable rate, because then the full risk of the increase in energy prices lies with the tenant. For the landlord, the clarity of the rate is important in order to be able to make the investment decision. I understand Mr Ruers' questions about financial security for the tenant very well. However, if we all have the ambition of investing in energy-efficient housing on a large scale, then clarity is equally important for the landlord. If there is insufficient security, then a landlord will not make this investment soon. Next, achieving climate ambitions will also be a very complicated task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u12	I hear the Minister telling me in whose interest is a fixed rate. I'm going with him that there's got to be an upper limit. The landlord needs to be able to calculate it. The generating capacity must also be fixed. However, take the following example, which is not new, but is often mentioned. A tenant who is now in a rental house, a single person of age, is economical, ensures that there are little heating costs and is below €100 per month in heating costs. He's gonna get a proposal later. The average energy performance fee goes, in a manner of speaking, to €150 per month. So that tenant is going backwards 50 euros. That will not apply to everyone, because that €150 is the average. Such a tenant is actually punished for the fact that he has always been economical. I can't imagine that that's an incentive for the tenant. It's not reasonable, either. This tenant has always been economical and is faced with an increase in the cost of housing by the calculation of the average, which brings the energy performance compensation across the board. In the new house everything is completely measured and measured. Is it not possible to determine the heating costs after renovation individually, per house? Then these costs can also be allocated individually. Then you can give people what's due to their lower consumption. Isn't that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u13	Because there is measurement, the benefit of economical use can indeed fall to the tenant. The most common zero-on-the-meter techniques will be the electricity meter and will be based on energy neutrality, on average over the year. That's not every moment. In such a situation electricity is returned to the grid in the summer months and in the winter months electricity is drawn from the net. The economical tenant from the example of Mr Ruers can deliver more back in the summer than is used in winter. This means that on balance there is an advantage for the tenant, while a tenant who uses a lot of electricity will have to pay extra on balance. It is not the case that every incentive for economical consumption disappears. However, a combination is found between the fixed remuneration needed to make the investment in that economical home and the payment of the electricity actually used, which still provides an incentive to use it in a economical manner. Mr. Ruers asked if a tenant would be able to achieve the same thing if the costs were to rise. That tenant can indeed first show to the landlord, then to the rental committee and ultimately to the judge: despite my economical use or despite the fact that my behaviour has not changed, my energy bill is higher than was previewed to me at the time I gave my agreement, so I feel misled and I want adjustments from the landlord. There is an explicit possibility of this. Mr Ruers asked for an explanation of Article 7:255 of the Civil Code, based on a reasonable relationship between the operation and the rent increase. That is the existing article, which also applies when the rent increases after conversion. This article fits perfectly with this law. We have had two consultative offices check the impact of applying this law on housing costs in a large number of cases. On this basis, we have decided to adapt the housing valuation system if the use of the energy performance compensation is chosen. The combination of these payments and the adjustments to the housing valuation system gives me the conviction that, as the law says, we can indeed ensure a reasonable relationship between the intervention and the rent increase. Mrs Van Weerdenburg and Mr Schouwenaar addressed the complaints contained in a number of examples of zero-on-the-meter houses. Mr Schouwenaar rightly pointed out that there are many examples of very satisfied tenants. Over the past few years I have visited a lot of projects myself and talked to tenants. They are often glowing at their home, because not only the energy performance is increasing enormously, but also the house really is.I can't use any other term for it. When you drive into the street, you immediately see which houses have become "zero on the meter." Even when you enter a house, people can really tell with great enthusiasm: in the past they couldn't sit on the couch because they were sitting under the window for the trip and now they have gotten a very comfortable home. That does not go away, and rightly so, it calls for attention to be paid to the fact that mistakes are being made where work is being done and that these risks certainly exist in the application of new techniques. It is of course up to the builder and the landlord to ensure that those problems are solved. Normally that goes in good agreement between the tenant and the landlord. If you can't do that, the tenant can take all the pride of steps I've just described. I also hope that in the not too long term I will be able to discuss the private quality assurance bill with the Chamber, which increases the responsibility of the builder. Of course, it can often be said in the context of a contract of acceptance: it was a contract of acceptance, not a contract of sale. And: you didn't make any comments when I delivered it, so you shouldn't be with me. The new law provides for this type of situation, and will also be helpful in this respect, in which the contractor would not be able to escape in this way. Again, that is all a final step. The current law also provides for a large number of safeguards. Mr Ruers and Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked why it was not included in the law that housing costs should not increase at all. Mr Ruers also asked about Mr De Vries' motion, which is on the agenda as we speak in the House of Representatives. I already indicated that the landlord will have to convince the tenant. In the Netherlands this will certainly be done with the figures of the old energy bills alongside those of the housing costs that will occur after there is energy performance compensation. In general, convincing will only succeed if the housing costs do not increase or if the housing costs increase and the landlord can show that the quality of the home also increases enormously. Such conversations also take place almost daily. Fortunately, there are many more renovations of social housing, where it is also mentioned that a rent increase may be requested on the basis of the law on the property valuation system. The tenant may or may not agree to that. This is also an important reason why I reject Mr De Vries' motion and also say in this Chamber: you should not legally lock down that the housing costs should never increase, because a tenant can have a good reason to say that he is prepared to pay a little more rent if such a leap in quality is against it. Why would you want to legally lock down that possibility? The tenant can prevent him from facing an unreasonable rent increase against his will, because he has the right to consent. Tenant and landlord may also agree additional guarantees for this. A guarantee of housing costs can be agreed between the two parties. Locking down the law would remove an important part of the freedom from the tenant and also raise major implementation technical objections, because if you are going to legally lay down such a guarantee, you also have to record exactly how you do it. You will then have to obtain information about the energy consumption before and after remodeling from home to home. This has huge consequences for privacy, because you literally have to look behind the front door, because that's where the meters are. People have to agree to that. You need reliable data on that. If I had to work out something like this at AMvB, it would result, if it succeeds, in a great delay and a great limitation of the possibility for a tenant to say: considering everything, I can live with slightly higher housing costs, because I get such a beautiful home for it. Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked whether this law would not give the Racing Acceleration a government stamp. I indicated at the beginning of my speech that I very much welcome this initiative, because I am convinced that society is moving forward because innovative, brave people always want to take a step further. The government must be on the side of these people with good regulation, without it becoming a project of the government immediately. It can thus ensure that entrepreneurs and housing corporations can continue to do so and that the tenants receive decent guarantees. As a result, it is not a government project, but rather a broad-based project in society, which greatly increases the chances of success. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u14	I asked the Minister if he saw any improvement in the provision of information to tenants who are in favour of the decision to agree to such a sustainable renovation. Several tenants, who have also complained on television, have shown the leaflet in which the benefits have been well mentioned, but it is hard for them on the roof that there are also disadvantages and problems attached to it. Does the Minister see any improvement in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u15	I think that improvement is very important, and that is also an important reason why I am standing here. The regulations that we are discussing today and the concrete amounts that are also in the AMvB are necessary to make these clear agreements. So far it has not been possible with that degree of clarity. So yes, I think it is very important that the tenant gets that good information and that he can take action if it fails. I have also promised that I will not only evaluate the law after three years, but will also perform a quick scan in a year's time because I want to keep my finger on the wrist and share that image with the Chamber after a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u16	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. We can go a long way with the Minister's reply on setting the frameworks and the scope that still exists to settle matters at AMvB. We would have preferred to be able to assess this more comprehensively and that the principles of the law would be further regulated. We understand the Minister's argument in this respect. We will continue to take a critical look at what is going to happen in the future. We look differently at whether or not we apply a guarantee of housing costs in the law than the Minister. We believe that in many cases the tenant in the negotiation has a weaker position than the landlord with an entire device behind him. For our part, this is a reason to see whether the tenant can not be given some kind of support in the law. The tenant may deviate from the law as a tenant and landlord agree, but must have something to fall back on when he feels in an unequal position vis-à-vis the landlord. For this reason, together with the SP, we are tabling a motion, which may be similar to a text that the Minister saw in the Lower House last week. The President shall: Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Ruers, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Kox and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas corporations are allowed to charge an energy performance fee to their tenants after the house has been renovated into a so-called zero-on-the-meter house;]] [[Whereas the possibility of an energy performance compensation may be an important tool for promoting the sustainability of housing stock;]] [[Whereas the legislation and the ministerial rules based on it provide that corporations may agree with their tenants on a guarantee of housing costs;]] [[Considers that, under no circumstances should the housing costs of individual tenants be increased to zero on the meter in the case of constant living behaviour as a result of the renovation;]] [[calls on the Government to make compulsory the guarantee of housing costs in the ministerial scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34228-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u18	In the overall assessment, our assessment will in principle be positive. We believe that with a good answer from the Minister to the question of the possibility that the law could provide for a guarantee, the law in particular for the position of the tenant and thus also for the achievement of the objectives could be given an even better foundation. For our final judgment, we would like to await the Minister's final reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his explanation and his explanation, which were very clear on a number of points. I'll get back to you now. My first point concerns the division between the law and the AMvB, the implementing regulation. The Minister said that this is common practice in these situations and that this is always the case. Yet, in our opinion, that is the problem. I think you should distinguish between the law, where the essentialia are in it, and its possible technical impact in an AMvB. If that were the affair here, we would have had no problem with it. We find it quite understandable in itself that the essentialia are laid down here by the legislator and that the implementation comes later with AMvB, if it is subordinate. In our view, however, there is a different situation here. We are dealing here with a framework law, the essentialia, the details of which are in an AMvB. We used to say at school, "in cauda venenum est," the venom is in the tail. That is also the case with this scheme. The venom is in the tail of the AMvB, in the ministerial arrangement. We're not okay with that. We believe that the essentialia should be included in the legislative proposal or at least treated as a single proposal by the legislator, so that Parliament as a legislator can assume its responsibilities and know what it says yes or no to. The Minister says that we have always done so, and that is what I am questioning, and we will continue to do so. We will not make it a point of discussion now, but we will certainly come back to it. In fact, we do not think that this is a good thing, and we do not think that it is a good thing. As a legislator, you have to stand up for your case and know what you're judging. So you have to judge it here and not give it out of your hands. The second point concerns the information to the tenants and the calculation of the rate. In his reply, the Minister says that you can do so by house, but that is very complicated. You get a complicated AMvB, which takes a lot of effort and will generate a lot of costs and delays. That will certainly be the case. It's a tough law, too. It has been clear to me from the beginning that it is a very difficult law, with a lot of details. However, the fact that a law is difficult does not mean that we, as legislators, should not regulate it properly. Our obligation is to make difficult laws as well. We have to make it right and make it clear. I understand from the Minister's words that it is possible to regulate and measure consumption per home. Then I'd say, "Let's do it on a house-by-house basis." If that is the fair and reasonable solution, then we must do so. Then we should not make a global, general calculation which would put the economical tenant at a disadvantage and therefore, in fact, have to pay more. The principle of the bill is good, by the way. We agree on that. In our view, the environmental aspects are very important and also very commendable. The third point concerns what the Minister said about the Albert de Vries motion. and also on the motion before us by Mr Lintmeijer. He says we shouldn't legally shut it down, record it or lock it, because the tenant should be free to opt for a higher rent. That's fine. I totally agree with him. If that's what a tenant wants, it's what he needs to do. Then no one will stop him. However, it is precisely the other side that is at stake, namely that the tenant is at risk of having no choice, that he is given a dictation through that energy performance compensation which he cannot oppose and which creates higher housing costs. We have to protect the tenant from that. That is what the Albert de Vries motion is for. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). If the Minister writes that the renter does not end up getting any worse, on average, he must also ensure that the housing tax guarantee is put in place. Taking care of it will take some time. However, if the Minister is committed and convinced, I am sure that will succeed. As the legislative proposal now stands, we shall vote against it. However, the Minister may still be persuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. I cannot deny that I was a little surprised by the criticism of the SP about the bill, not so much by its rental part, but by its constitutional aspect. However, I would like to respond to that, because I believe that the implicit accusation that we would not be entirely correct here would affect us all. In order to avoid misunderstanding, I note that I speak for myself only, on behalf of the VVD Group. It is a well-known pattern: a law worked out in an AMvB and ministerial arrangements. We have the regulated sector in the area of housing legislation, including circulars and much more delegated regulation. That's in itself normal. I would point out that the Council of State advised not even to make a framework law, as Mr Ruers called it, but simply to include it in the rent increase. However, I believe that a right-wing sui generis has been chosen here, because it is indeed very specific. I think it would be more desirable for that law to be further developed in an AMvB than in non-state law. It is a very technical subject, a subject that is still under development. So all kinds of numbers can still change regularly and the process of legislative change is too cumbersome for that. For these reasons too, we consider the choice that has now been made to be very good. This legislative proposal concerns individual contracts and, as with all contracts, conflicts and differences of opinion may arise. We believe that it would be a good idea for the contracting parties to enter into consultations and try to resolve it between themselves. That's usually the way it is. We do not think it is appropriate, as it were, to make a bypass of a guarantee that makes further discussions, mutual consultation and mutual search for a solution unnecessary. We do not see this as shifting it to the judiciary, as Mr Ruers called it. The judiciary, to which I also count the Rent Committee in this case, is always available in the last instance to resolve situations in which the contractors do not come out, and that is a good thing. The Rent Committee is very suitable for that, because it is expert. We are dealing here with technical issues and also with low-threshold issues. In this respect, we think that the final section of the Rent Committee is excellent. I had another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u21	Do you think about your time, Mr Schouwenaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u22	I can't read my own notes anymore, so we agree on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Schouwenaar. We now have a second-term response from the Minister. He says he can answer right away. That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u24	Mr. Chairman. Mr Lintmeijer has a positive approach to the law, for which I thank him. He has tabled a motion which is indeed similar to a motion that was previously tabled in the House of Representatives. Mr Lintmeijer will therefore not be entirely surprised that my reaction is similar to my reaction to the motion in the House of Representatives. I must advise against this motion, because it restricts the tenant's freedom to opt for an increase in the burden of living if there is more comfort. The motion is also legally very difficult to implement, because you need objective information about the actual energy use of tenants. This not only brings with it difficult legal dilemmas, it literally means you have to look behind the front door. That therefore calls for a serious breach of privacy. On balance, therefore, as in the House of Representatives, I must discourage this motion. I have not been able to convince Mr Ruers when it comes to the distinction between what is stated in the law and in the General Measure of Management. I would point out once again that this was not a point of criticism of this law by the Council of State and that this is also really in line with the way in which the cabinet and myself submit legislation on residence to this Chamber. To date, I have made a habit of making sure that the text of the General Measure is also available at the time the bill is dealt with. That is the case now, and that was the case at the time with the Housing Act, under which very complex General Measures of Governance hang. Even if we do not agree on the substance of the matter, at least we can see that there is a degree of perseverance. Mr Ruers once again referred to the individual price calculation. I have indicated that this is quite possible on parts. On other parts this is not possible because, especially when it comes to investments in insulation, there is a fixed investment amount for the landlord, which is difficult to charge to the tenant in individual prices. With electricity, that's pretty good. Mr Ruers also supported Mr Lintmeijer's motion. I am sure he will forgive me for making a state-of-the-art comment on this. The motion calls for a ministerial settlement. I have already indicated that, as far as I am concerned, a guarantee of housing costs is undesirable but in any case very far-reaching. The state of law would also, I am sure, strongly oppose the formulation by ministerial regulation of something as far-reaching as a guarantee of housing costs. This should be done at least in the case of General Measure of Governance. Again, that does not make it less undesirable in substance. I therefore immediately endorse Mr Schouwenaar's speech on the constitutional merits of the way in which we are now filing this law. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u25	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u26	Mr. Chairman. A number of petitioners have made this more or less conditional on their final judgment of the law. That would argue for the motion to be put to the vote before the legislative proposal is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u27	If the Chamber agrees, we can do it that way. But you're asking for a vote. I therefore propose that we vote on the legislative proposal on Tuesday 17 May. But we'll vote on the motion first that same day and then on the bill. Is that okay with you? I am now getting a note saying that we would vote directly, but that was not the case, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u28	In principle, I would not object to direct voting, but the combination with a motion makes it a little complicated. I'd like to leave it to the Chamber how we technically solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u29	I agree with that. From different sides it is indicated that "the field" is jumping. As far as we are concerned, we could now vote very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-26-eerstekamer-5.u30	I see shaking heads. Because we are voting on the motion first and then on the legislative proposal, we need group consultation first. I can see from the reactions of some people, as I have said, that they are not in favour of this. Unfortunately for you, we are going to vote on 17 May: first on the motion and then on the bill.
