ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	I understand that this morning, in this debate, the first term of office has been completed. It is now up to the Secretary of State to reply in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for the questions that have been put and for the fact that this debate is taking place. This is an important debate for dairy farming. I think and I also know that a lot of people sometimes try to take a look at this debate while they are hard at work, because dairy farming has been unclear since last year. One does not know what the future perspective is. That has everything to do with the production of phosphate. For listeners I give a brief explanation. Phosphate is a substance contained in manure. It has been agreed at European level that the production of phosphate should not be too high. In fact, if phosphate enters the environment, into nature, it can cause disruption there. Since we in the Netherlands have so far been dealing with exceedances of standards, for example in surface water, we have been agreeing with Europe for ten years that we should not produce more phosphate than a certain agreed standard. Last year it became clear that this standard would be exceeded. My predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, then wrote a letter to the Chamber on 2 July in which she announced that it was necessary to restrict production. It has therefore announced a system of phosphate rights. That has not been a pleasant message for dairy farming. In fact, the sector only recently, with the release of the milk quota, had lost its restriction on production. The release of that quota gave entrepreneurs much more room to respond to market developments. For many companies it is significant to have to return to what is actually a production limiting system. It is even more significant because production in 2015 was so higher than the agreed standard, that the sector as a whole will also have to shrink. That's not an easy message. At the beginning of November last year, I thought this was perhaps the most difficult issue that was on my plate at the time. I came into contact with the various sectoral organisations on this matter rather quickly. I would like to emphasise that I am very grateful to LTO, NZO, NMV, Network Fundamental and also to the Foundation for Nature and the Environment for the good discussions we have had. These were extensive discussions and sometimes sharp discussions on how such a system of phosphate rights should look. I am particularly grateful to LTO, NZO and Network for having been willing to stick their necks out and to take overall responsibility for the system as it stands. This was not an easy and not a pleasant message for individual dairy farmers. LTO has repeatedly stressed this. The fact that the sector as a whole needs to shrink and that skimming is very likely at company level is certainly not an easy message, but a necessary one. The production and development of dairy farming and individual dairy farms must be carried out within the environmental limits we have agreed on. We expect final figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics on phosphate production in June 2015. Everything indicates that the increase, as it was, continued last year. The provisional figures showed that there was more production than was agreed under the derogation from the Nitrates Directive. The final figures are also expected to show a significant overrun. This poses major risks, including for dairy farming: the risk of default as regards the implementation of the Nitrates Directive and the risk of the loss of the derogation. Derogation is an exception to the strict rules for the use of nitrogen from animal manure laid down in the Nitrates Directive. At the moment that we would lose that derogation, dairy farming would have to cost much more for the responsible disposal of animal manure and for the feeding of fertilizer. We have calculated these costs in an indicative way at EUR 100 million per year, but that can be a conservative estimate. It could be more. Loss of the derogation also affects livestock sectors other than dairy farming alone. Without a derogation, the national manure surplus increases significantly, which also leads to a significant increase in manure disposal costs, including in other sectors. Apart from the economic consequences, there are also environmental consequences of the loss of that derogation. At the moment we can use some of the raw materials that are in manure, a number of Members of Parliament have also pointed this out in the first term for arable crops or for fertilising grassland in particular. It would be a shame if we could use these raw materials to a lesser extent. From the point of view of the circular economy, that would really be a step backwards. We have a sound scientific basis, for years, that the use of additional animal manure, as we do, does not pose a risk to soil and surface water quality. A loss of the derogation would mean a larger surplus of animal manure and, at the same time, a greater supply of fertilizer. That is a development that is going exactly the wrong way. That is why, together with the sector, we have come to the conclusion that it is in the interests of the sector and of the entire livestock sector to establish a system of phosphate rights. That is an annoying, but necessary step. We will have to limit phosphate production in order to maintain that derogation, but also to be able to talk to the European Commission at all about a new derogation period. The current derogation period expires at the end of 2017. I think it is in the interests of our agriculture that we should be able to make use of derogations after that. For that, we will have to negotiate with the European Commission. In order to do that, we will have to show that we are sticking to the agreements that have been made. This means that by the end of this derogation period we must at least have taken measures to bring phosphate production back under the ceiling agreed with the European Commission. For this reason, too, the introduction of a phosphate rights system is inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	Before I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber, I would like to know how you have built up your contribution. Then we also know when to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	A number of general questions have been asked about the why and purpose of the phosphate rights system. I'll answer that first. The necessary questions have also been asked about the European context and the negotiations with the European Commission. I shall then turn to the question of what the system should look like: the granting of rights, the skimming and the establishment of a phosphate bank. Finally, I have the category of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	At the very beginning of his speech, the Secretary of State referred to the past period in which consultations took place with LTO and other parties on the system of phosphate rights. We also have a period of uncertainty and uncertainty for dairy farmers. They couldn't move, they didn't know whether to invest or not. That period has been far too long. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks back on that lousy time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	It starts with the release of milk quotas, after which there was a feeling of "there is all the space to grow." My predecessor also said immediately: beware, that growth must take place within the environmental boundary conditions. The sector has initially said that it is not very concerned about this. They said they would take steps to ensure that too. I think the rate of growth has surprised almost everyone. Growth has gone with great leaps over the past two years. We have crossed the environmental line very quickly. When that became clear, the cabinet immediately indicated that it would have to intervene and come up with a system based on production restrictions, see my predecessor's letter of 2 July 2015. I understand very well that, when this became clear, there was uncertainty. It's also quite an operation. The first challenge of the phosphate rights system is to bring production back below the agreed ceiling. For this, the sector needs to shrink. The provisional figures were already around 4% above the agreed standard. That means shrinking the whole sector. A shrinkage like that takes care. I noticed quite quickly after my arrival that everyone wanted clarity as soon as possible. The most important thing, however, is that we do it carefully. I have also taken the time to do so, including for consultation with sector organisations and environmental organisations. I thought it was very important to take this step together. It is a problem of dairy farming. It is very good that we have discussed this together. It may have taken a little longer to be clear, but I think this has been sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	I appreciate the care of the Secretary of State. The lack of speed is now avenging. This is not the first cabinet proposal to have been delayed for a very long time. We already have a history with the Milk Cattle Act, the AMvB soil-based growth and now again the system of phosphate rights. Due to disagreement in the coalition, decision-making takes a very long time or is not adequate. Does the Secretary of State wish to take this into account and direct this dossier more in the interests of dairy farming in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	The Secretary of State, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	I told you this was one of the most complicated files on my board when I got there. I have looked into this as quickly and as closely as possible. I started talking to the various organisations as soon as possible. In fact, within a few months, we have reached the contours of the system such as the Chamber which received it in the March letter. So much more directing than that would not have been possible in my opinion. I think we have done everything we can to provide clarity as soon as possible. This intervention hurts individual companies and the sector as a whole, but the starting point was also to distribute that pain as fairly as possible. I believe that we have succeeded in this together. The only way to do that is to consult with each other. It's gonna take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	Last year, on 2 July, we received that letter; it came very soon after the problems had become known. In the meantime, we're nine months away, a complete pregnancy of nine months. A baby was born here, but that child, the plan, can't walk yet. If that can take so long, why can't we take the time to conduct these negotiations in Brussels quietly? Has there been any notion from Brussels that it is taking too long and that the child must learn to walk faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	Certainly, Brussels is following very critically how we deal with the derogation. Brussels also knows, of course, that we have probably produced more than was agreed and expects us to take action. That is also indicated by the Netherlands. I can tell you one thing: if we fail to take these measures, we will not have a good basis for discussion for a further derogation. With the approach proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf in his term, he is therefore taking a very high risk for Dutch dairy farming. I find that risk irresponsible and I do not want to take it on board. We are now taking steps to ensure that we comply with the commitments we have made ourselves and with which we have signed ourselves. If we stick to those agreements, we have a basis to talk about what the future will look like. Mr Dijkgraaf is suggesting that we do not take any action and that we do so only when Europe gives us something. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. The first thing the European Commission would say to us, then, is that we made agreements with you last time; you do not abide by them and you do not take any steps to ensure that you stick to them; why are you actually here to talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	This is typically the Dutch interpretation of how things are going in Brussels. When I talk to people in Brussels, I hear very different stories. I would therefore like to see the letter that Brussels sent to the Dutch Government saying that the Netherlands must make haste, that this must be done within this derogation period, that they do not want to talk at all and that the Netherlands has a bad negotiating position if the Netherlands does not come up with phosphate rights before 1 January. As a Dutch parliamentarians, I would like to see this letter in black and white rather than an interpretation by the Dutch Government of what would happen in Brussels heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	There's no letter from that, but it's not about interpretation. There are simply talks with the European Commission. We have, of course, also reported to the European Commission what is going on here. That is not necessary, because Brussels follows the media and knows very well what is going on here. However, we have reported this. In doing so, the Commission has, I would almost say: of course, indicated that it would be critical to monitor the progress made. Of course, we can also see that, with the plan that we have presented, we will only be able to get production back below the agreed ceiling after this derogation period. It is therefore not entirely illogical for Brussels to take a critical view of this, but at the same time it is seen that there are far-reaching measures, including for the sector. The Commission is therefore awaiting further developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	The Secretary of State says that the growth of the dairy sector has surprised us. I have already mentioned the report of the 2011 PBL: Which livestock fits in the Netherlands? It says that milk production would grow by 20% to 30% between 2012 and 2020, thereby increasing phosphate excretion, and that the ceiling would go down simultaneously from 154 million kilos to 136 million kilos between 2010 and 2015. It's all written down in 2011. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the Dutch Government has deliberately put its head in the sand?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	The fact that the Secretary of State is not even entitled to any argument, while I give him here quotes of it by himself... This is from the Planning Office for the Environment of 2011. There's a government logo on it. It's all over the place. Everyone has been warned about everything and not just by the PBL. And now the Secretary of State says, "I'm surprised." I am shocked by such an answer and I would like to promise the Secretary of State that I will send this report to the European Commission once again when the Secretary of State talks about raising the phosphate ceiling. I hope that the European Commission will then kick his ass and say: do your homework first!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	I think the hope expressed by Mr Grashoff here is very unwise, because in fact he hopes that the European Commission will not cooperate in extending the derogation. This has huge consequences for Dutch dairy farming and therefore for all small entrepreneurs. Mr Grashoff also knows that the average Dutch company has 89 cows and is often owned by a couple or a small family. That company has a very limited income and provides a number of things that we like the Netherlands are proud of, such as green pastures, cows in the meadow and the cheese we are world famous for. That's Dutch dairy farming. I think it is a great deal when Mr Grashoff says: I really hope that the European Commission does not want to contribute to a healthy future for Dutch dairy farming. I think that is extremely unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	Now I'm really getting mad! If there was one party in the Chamber that warned about this in 2010 and 2011 that I myself was GroenLinks. And if there is one party that wants to continue dairy farming in a good and sustainable way, it is GroenLinks. But it is the Dutch government that has made a mess of it! Let's establish that. But I'm getting the blame back now. I say that it would be good now if the European Commission were to be strict and say: this is going too far, the Netherlands, you have to keep to the agreements and then you can appeal to us in any way. And then I'm gonna get the mood here. I think that's inappropriate!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	Madam President, I have never seen Mr Grashoff so angry in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	Do you? I don't. Normally, he's always very calm and calm. I am very pleased that Professor Dijkgraaf of the SGP has also joined our years of argument that the Dutch government should really stand up for Dutch entrepreneurs. In doing so, it must also occasionally sidestep the European Commission, because we must guard our sovereignty. I have already said that we are the biggest net contributor and the best boy in the class, and we are at the forefront everywhere, even when it comes to animal welfare. I have talked about Natura 2000, which destroys our farmers, and about the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, and you name it. I can go on about those suffocating laws and regulations. We've always been ahead and we've always been the best boy in the class. Now the Secretary of State should say, guys, whoa, we're not gonna do that anymore. Our farmers go to hell, and that is what my question is about. Our farmers are really fucked up. The Secretary of State must really say, with the heels in the sand, that we are not going to do that; I am going to stand up for our farmers now. I believe that the Secretary of State should say that. That also applies to the derogation, because I wanted to have a comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr Graus mentioned Natura 2000 and the PAS. They're about protecting our nature. And yes, that is what we make agreements with each other in Europe, because that protection is also cross-border and we sometimes influence each other. But it is our nature in the Netherlands that we protect and for which we have made agreements in Europe, precisely to ensure that all countries implement that protection in the same way. It is about our forests and our natural areas, which we are proud of. And yes, there is an impact of economic activities, including agriculture, on nature. If you want to protect nature well, it is therefore very logical that you make agreements about that influence and that you also try to limit that influence. For example, we do this with the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. Mr Graus presents that as if it were some sort of Brussels dictatorship that comes down to us. Of course, that is not the case. We also want to protect our nature very much. Mr Graus usually speaks proudly about this country. I'm doing the same thing. We are proud of what this country looks like and of what makes this country so special. In my opinion, Dutch nature is inextricably linked to this. The phosphate rights have everything to do with that. If you want to protect Dutch nature, you have to prevent too many substances from getting into it. Phosphate does that. If it is in too large concentrations in surface water, it gets a green blur. It also ends up in nature and there it leads to overfertilisation; it disturbs the balance in nature. That is why we have agreed to prevent too much phosphate from getting into surface water, but we do not always succeed in this. With Brussels, we agreed that we would not produce too much until we were able to prevent too much phosphate from entering the water. After all, the more we produce, the more we get into the water. It's no illogical arrangement at all. We signed it ten years ago, and the agricultural sectors in question did so. Brussels has given us a great deal of space to use more manure on land, given much more space than other Member States, because we can show that we are not getting it into the water too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u23	The interruptions must be short, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u24	I will be careful of my interruptions, but this is an important point. Especially if you also get support from Professor Dijkgraaf, you should seize the opportunity. I don't know any MP who's not in favour of protecting nature. The same goes for my group: everyone is in favour of protecting nature. If Brussels laws and regulations lead to suffocating measures and often national headlines too, Professor Dijkgraaf also referred to "" the policy is no longer feasible." In a motion of my hand, adopted by the Chamber, I call on the government to consider what is workable and feasible at all. I'd like to get a reaction to that, too. I don't know if the Secretary of State is working on the execution of that motion. Our dairy farmers can't work like this anymore. At some point the Secretary of State will have to say as shepherd of the sheep: now it has been nice, here is the border, we have been ahead all these years but this is not going to happen. He can say that on our behalf. I'm sure he'll get a mandate for that from the Chamber. No one can be there for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u25	The Secretary of State as shepherd of the sheep, says Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u26	It is a beautiful image, but if only it were as simple as Mr Graus assumes. I have already said that Brussels gives us the most room for manoeuvre. Our exception to the rules, the derogation, is the largest of all countries. Mr Graus can say that we do not care about the European Commission. We'll lose that exception. That's one. If we continue, we will be faced with a formal notice of default. We are called upon to do so, and that has consequences; the Commission can also impose sanctions on it. I would like to give the House a note that, in the end, this is far from good for Dutch agriculture. He'll pay the price for that. For the attitude suggested by Mr Graus, the Dutch farmers will pay the price. We are doing just as well because we have always made good agreements with the European Commission. It seems sensible to me that we should continue to strive for good agreements for the benefit of Dutch agriculture and that we should stick to those agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u27	Very briefly, and this also applies to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u28	The Dutch have been at the forefront for centuries, which has nothing to do with the European Union. At the time of Michiel de Ruyter and all those centuries after that, our farmers have been at the forefront, even without the European Union, but now they are going to the hell. This is good for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u29	I would advise Mr Graus to look into the question of where most of the exports of Dutch agricultural products are going. That goes to the countries of the European Union, and that would not be possible if we did not cooperate in the EU in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u30	I still have a dirty taste in my mouth from the previous derogation negotiations. The Secretary of State says: Brussels says, Brussels thinks. I have two specific questions for the Secretary of State. What exactly does Brussels think? Does the Cabinet, has the Secretary of State, have the Ministry been in contact with the Nitrate Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u31	The Nitrates Committee finally decides on the granting of the derogation, but the European Commission is monitoring it, so there has obviously been contact with the European Commission. I shall come back to that a little more in detail. There has been contact with the European Commission and it has been reported that the expectation is that we have exceeded the agreements. We have also reported how we intend to take measures to ensure that these agreements are complied with. I will deal with this in a little more detail on the next block. A number of general questions have been asked about the why and purpose of the phosphate rights system. Several Members of Parliament, including Mr Geurts, have asked whether there is any accumulation of measures. He also asked whether we realized that the longer the uncertainty takes, the more annoying it is for the family business. I realize that very much. It's my intention to make sure the bill is there before the summer. I hope that, in this Chamber and in the First Chamber, we will be able to achieve a successful outcome, which will enable the system to enter into force on 1 January. This debate already gives clarity to many farmers, but final clarity only comes with the legislative proposal. I hope that we will be able to deal with that bill as soon as possible and then forward it to the Supreme Court. I hope that the First Chamber will then be able to adopt it as soon as possible, so that there is definitive clarity for all companies. I have realised that there are indeed several successive steps. This was also the subject of discussions with the sector organisations. We recently received the AMvB on land-based growth. This has to be converted into a bill, which is before the Chamber. We hope to deal with this as soon as possible, because I believe that this is inextricably linked to this system. We have chosen not to include in this law any new measures that are based on the ground-based nature of companies, but to do with the AMvB that is in place, because this regulation has been recently introduced, I say to Mrs Koşer Kaya, who unfortunately had to be elsewhere in this building and hopefully found out through her colleague. The representative of the Animal Party, whom I do not see today, has asked a question about ground-bound and closed cycles. It's very good to close the loops. The use standards in the manure policy mean that no more manure can be fertilised than is justified. We have a manure processing obligation, which means that it is disposed of too much manure outside Dutch agriculture. Some Members of Parliament have suggested that there may be further intensification of dairy farming, but that is not the case. Intensive companies cannot intensify further due to the AMvB on land-based growth. Intensive dairy farms can only grow by extending. They're gonna have to buy some land. They will have to be more ground bound than they are if they want to grow further. Due to the phosphate duty system, there is a ceiling for total manure production. If you look at the complete package of manure policy, this also contributes to closing cycles as much as possible. If there is a manure surplus in the Netherlands, we can guarantee from next year that the excess manure is disposed of outside Dutch agriculture. Mrs Lodder asked whether it would be possible to bring the law into force on 1 January. I told you, at least this is my bet. I also think this is feasible, but I am also a little dependent on cooperation with both Chambers. I hope that the Chamber, like me, sees the importance of some speed in the legal process. Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether there was an end date for phosphate rights, particularly because of taxation. A decision has yet to be taken. I'll do that while designing this law. Such a decision has financial consequences, so I will have to discuss it with the Minister of Finance. Mr Graus asked whether it was true that the prices of manure would increase if we lost the derogation. That's the case. LTO asked the LEI, the Agriculture Economic Institute, to make an assessment. I reported the outcome of that study in the letter of 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u32	It is logical for the Secretary of State to say that it has financial consequences, but of course it also has financial consequences for farmers when there is an end date, not only because it is, quite rightly, deductible for taxes, but also because it reduces the price of phosphate rights. If you hang on to it for a fixed period, the rights become a lot cheaper than when they are infinite. So if you don't want to hunt farmers at a cost, you're gonna need an end date. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u33	Unfortunately, the reasoning can also be reversed. At a time when such rights are tax deductible, this can also have a price increase effect on the rights, as the net investment burden will then be reduced. That way you can afford a higher price for those rights. In the case of poultry rights and pig rights, for example, there is a link between prices and the setting of an end date. They may at some point lapse by Royal Decree. As a result, duties have become tax deductible, but it has not been said that this leads to lower prices. My expectation is rather the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u34	That is exactly why I say there are two mechanisms. One is taxation. This is taken into account in the net present value of the duties and thus in the price. But if you attach an end date to it, there is also a negative effect for a second, because it doesn't matter if you buy a right for 1, 10 or 100 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u35	Yeah, it matters. But if Mr Dijkgraaf suggests not only to include in the law that rights may expire at some point but also to actually include a date in the law, that does not meet the agreement with the European Commission. The Commission does not say: you must limit the production of phosphate for a limited period of time. The agreement is now that, at least during the duration of the derogation, production should not be higher. Moreover, without a derogation, I expect the European Commission not to be lenient about how we deal with manure, but let us assume that we do not have to get into that situation. I'm moving on. I was in the European context. In particular, the CDA and VVD groups have asked for the process of negotiations with the European Commission on the next derogation period. We are already consulting with the European Commission on a number of relevant developments. One: the CBS forecasts on phosphate production in 2015 and the planned introduction of phosphate rights for dairy farming. Two: implementation of the fifth action programme and a look at the sixth. Three: the possibility of using mineral concentrate as a fertilizer substitute. These consultations take place at different levels. For example, I have already spoken with Commissioner Vella about mineral concentrate myself. In addition, various discussions are taking place at a high administrative level, including on mineral concentrate. The European Commission is closely monitoring developments, in particular the reports on the overrun. The European Commission, as I said, is critical and expects the Netherlands to take convincing measures to reduce phosphate production to below the agreed ceiling. In addition to discussions with the European Commission, the Netherlands will be present at the Nitrate Committee on the state of play regarding the implementation of the action programme and the introduction of the phosphate rights system. On the basis of data on environmental results, which are part of the evaluation of the Fertilisers Act, the European Commission can discuss concrete measures in the Sixth Action Programme. This will happen next autumn because the evaluation data will only be available. The continuation of the current derogation after 2017 will be clarified after agreement has been reached with the European Commission on the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme. When submitting the legislative proposal, I will send the Chamber an overview of the state of play of the discussions and of any bottlenecks and the precise planning. I hope to inform the Chamber before the summer of the state of play regarding the application of mineral concentrate as a fertilizer substitute within the framework of the Nitrate Directive. Mr Graus asked how the Netherlands is going to ensure that the derogation is maintained. In this context, Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf have asked for a guarantee. This process must ultimately lead to a decision. That decision is not something that we ourselves can control. It's a negotiation. There's a conversation going on. It's up to us to make sure our story is as good as possible. This starts with the fact that we are complying with the existing agreements for the current derogation period. The following is that we will have to back up scientifically that a new derogation is also justified. With regard to the obligation to handle manure, I intend to set the percentages for next year in such a way as to strike a balance on the manure market. In this way we can also demonstrate that too much manure produced in the Netherlands is actually removed from Dutch agriculture. This gives us a position to start talking with the European Commission about dropping the production ceiling. That ceiling serves a purpose, namely to ensure that too much of the phosphate produced does not end up in Dutch nature. If we have a story to support the fact that we are guaranteeing the surplus outside Dutch agriculture, then we also offer the guarantee that it will not end up in Dutch nature. I therefore believe that we have a good basis for the discussion with the European Commission on dropping the production ceiling. I also indicated in the letter that, should the European Commission find that a bridge too far, we could discuss the calculation of the amount of manure that we bring outside Dutch agriculture with the ceiling. That is the commitment in this process, with which I expect that we can have a good discussion about maintaining the derogation after 2017. Once again, the step we are discussing today, namely the introduction of the phosphate rights system, is crucial. It is also crucial that we show that, during this derogation period, we are taking the measures to ensure that we get back below that ceiling and, therefore, we are keeping to the current agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u36	Were you done with this cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Lodder asked me if I realized that I have a lot of pressure on my shoulders. Of course. Mrs Lodders further asked me to share documents about the commitment and the outcome of the negotiations with the House of Representatives. I will start with the framework for negotiations with the European Commission, as indicated in the letter of 10 April 2015 received by the Chamber from the Foreign and Home Affairs Ministers. It states that the cabinet's commitment to negotiations and the outcome of negotiations will be shared with the Chamber in advance and wherever possible during the process and afterwards, and that it will answer for it. Letters to the European Commission on the implementation of EU legislation shall, where appropriate, make the Cabinet public within the limits of disclosure, such as the rules of the Public Administration Act and the Eurowob. The literal provision of daily administrative instructions and reports is not part of the normal movement between Cabinet and Chamber. By the way, all this can be read back in the aforementioned letter. I will also use it as a starting point for communicating with the Chamber on the commitment, intermediate positions and ex post accountability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u38	I would have liked to ask that last question, so thank you for that. I will get it right, because this is one of the achievements of the previous negotiations. I believe that Mr Geurts has also mentioned this. I had asked a number of questions about an investigation by the Mesdag Fund that was offered to the Chamber last Tuesday. I assume the Secretary of State will come back to those questions. I had also asked him if he could indicate the report in relation to the derogation negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yeah, I can do that now. Moreover, the Chamber has already asked the Cabinet for a written response through the I and M Committees. Because the report is broad on water quality and the Water Framework Directive, it is also right that this was carried out through the I and M Committee. It is the primary responsibility of the Minister of I and M. She will inform the Chamber about this together with me. We shall deal with the substantive questions that have been raised. Mrs. Lodder's asking for clarification. This report is about water quality and how it is measured. Relevant to what I call our part of this issue, that is, the agricultural part, is the amount of manure used on land and the part that washes out of it. That's why we're measuring just below the country. For agriculture, it is relevant how much manure is not absorbed by crops, but is washed out to surface water or groundwater. The report also addresses other sources of pollution. Of course that is the case. The cabinet can also take action on this, but that is again the responsibility of the Minister of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u40	I was a little afraid of that. Of course, this isn't exactly what's going on. When it comes to water quality, the results of the measurement points are taken into account as the basis for the derogation negotiations. I have mentioned a number of examples. If 40% of water boards can just raise standards, it will become increasingly difficult to meet them, while we have to comply with the Nitrate Directive and the Water Framework Directive for the derogation. The study showed that there are insufficient measurement points and that it is indistinguishable what phosphate load comes from torment, which is caused by sewer flooding and which of nature itself, i.e. nature reserves and birds. I would like to have a very short response to my questions, particularly in relation to the derogation. I had already announced that I would consider a motion on that point. This is at the heart of the derogation negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u41	I told you, of course, it's wider. That is why the Committee I and M have already asked for a response to the report. That response will be given to the Chamber of the Minister of I and M and to myself. Mrs Lodder's questions relate specifically to the derogation. This naturally looks at the application of manure and is supported on the basis of the incorporation of the substances into manure by the crop. In this way, we support the fact that there will be no extra run-off. That is precisely what we can support by the measuring points we have. It is therefore purely a question of agricultural application. I think it would be better to get back to the broader questions in the letter that the Committee I and M asked for and which the Chamber will also get from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u42	The Secretary of State is talking about the mineral concentrate. That is, of course, a very interesting theme. The fact that the circular aspect is becoming more commonplace is also very pleasant. However, I would like to warn you that this is rather complex. The phosphate nutrients come from Brazilian soils. If you win it back here, there is no immediate market for it, because not all the surrounding countries have an equally intensive form of agriculture. Now we're gonna mix up manure. Manure fermentation is in itself an uneconomic process and therefore requires subsidies from the SDE+ scheme. There are still a lot of bears on the road and it will take some time before it is really a useful, useful technology. Is the Secretary of State aware of this? Is he also thinking of the alternative of the short route, which is to ensure that you do not produce more phosphate in a sector than the country, the soil, can handle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u43	In itself, the mineral concentrate is not phosphate but nitrate and potassium in pig manure. This would also be an additional application for manure which could reduce the cost of manure and allow more manure to be used circularly. In other words, it benefits the circular economy and that is the story by which we justify our request to the European Commission to use mineral concentrate. It is precisely from the point of view of the circular economy that it is actually much more logical that we take out the useful substances. To this end, we must demonstrate that the use of mineral concentrate does not have a worse environmental impact than the use of fertilizer. The big advantage is, of course, that we will no longer have to import fertilizer. In my opinion, therefore, it has great advantages. There are possibilities to extract phosphate from manure. There are also possibilities to use manure in other ways. It is not for nothing that Mr Graus calls it the brown gold, a beautiful term in this context. This shows that there are all kinds of possibilities for using manure in a different way. You can convert it into energy via manure fermentation and that contributes to reducing or even removing the problem that the excess of manure can get into nature. That is the commitment of our policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u44	I am also always pleased with Mr Graus's commitment to this issue. He's taken a lot of classes, but he hasn't passed his exam yet, so... I would ask the Secretary of State, for example, to give an integral picture of the mineral concentrate and the reuse of phosphate in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. He has to take that side of the story too, because now it sounds a bit like: "Luckily, we have a way out. If the Commissioner agrees that it does not need to be called waste, we are there." It is a little more complex and I would therefore appreciate the Secretary of State's recognition and inclusion in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u45	It does not need to be incorporated directly into the legislative proposal, but I will take it into account in the reports I have promised on the discussions with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u46	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for what he said about the derogation negotiations. However, it is not being fully deployed and I therefore hope that the Secretary of State will contribute to the extraction of those phosphates. I understand that other European countries, for example Italy, Denmark and Flanders, are also interested in this. Moreover, there is an interest in it worldwide, because only China and Morocco still have some phosphate mines. Furthermore, it pretty much stops and that means that it is a global problem. Will the Secretary of State take us to the negotiations that we need to do much more on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u47	Sure. There are two very good reasons for doing that. The first is the environmental pressure and the second is the fact that it is a good thing that Europe ensures that it depends as little as possible on the import of these crucial raw materials. Of course, we should not become dependent on parts of the world on which you do not want to be dependent for geopolitical reasons either. After all, that makes you vulnerable. It is reasonable that we should import raw materials that we already have in the Netherlands. We are therefore looking at it with the European Commission, which has recently brought out its vision of the circular economy. I think it's a very sensible lead to re-use as much as possible as you already have. If we can extract raw materials from manure or if we can use manure as a source for energy, we must do so as far as possible as far as I am concerned. That's what we're gonna bet on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you for that commitment. When it comes to living creatures like animals, I would rather not be lugged and lugged, for hours, in long transports. For example, phosphates can also be used as an export product in the near future. Does the Secretary of State want to take that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u49	In fact, we already do that with processed manure. We export dried manure to other countries. It contains phosphate and other minerals. I also think the possibility of extracting phosphate from animal manure is interesting. This could also further reduce the dependence on fertilizers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u50	I should like to comment briefly on the surpluses of phosphate and nitrogen. If you look at the figures as they can also be found in the Compensate for the Environment, you can see that there is still a high degree of nitrogen surplus and a phosphate surplus on agricultural land. The latter is now a bit smaller, but it is growing again as a result of recent developments. Would it be a suggestion that the Secretary of State, both in his policy here and in conversation with the European Commission, should seek to achieve a complete balance at that level in the shortest possible time, both in terms of nitrogen and phosphate? If he could do that, he'd have a title to really talk to each other about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u51	In the end, of course, it is everyone's ambition to achieve the best possible balance between what is being administered and what is being used by the crops on land. However, it is always complicated to avoid the full 100% leaching, although the method of administration of manure is also used to minimise the loss. Whether the ambition is real is not to allow any loss to occur at all, I dare not say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u52	With a good dosage, not too much, and the good methods of getting it on land, that's possible. Then you can go to a balance. It is not the last percent and also depends on the season, on the precipitation and you name it, but the bank can take it. You can pursue that balance. If this is a very clear policy objective in the relatively short term, then we would take a step forward together for the first time in relation to nitrogen deposition, nitrogen problem and phosphate problem. If the Secretary of State were to raise that to a clear goal, we'd be getting closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u53	I have already said in this debate that it is also my ambition to close cycles as much as possible. I assume that is what Mr Grashoff is referring to. I think we share that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u54	I've heard a lot of interesting answers today. I had asked the Secretary of State to negotiate the Sixth Action Programme first and to look at the possible fixing of the generic reduction only after its completion. I haven't heard from the Secretary of State about that in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u55	I don't think he was finished either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u56	The establishment of a generic skimming is now foreseen for 1 July 2017, as it needs to be implemented by dairy farmers in 2018. I found six months to prepare you for such a discount actually the minimum we had to apply. Then dairy farmers will have the opportunity to see how they will ensure throughout 2018 that their phosphate production is brought under the new ceiling, the skimmed ceiling. I think that you should give dairy farmers a minimum period of six months to do so, because it has a significant impact on their business operations. The conclusion of the negotiations on the action programme and the derogation shall not be foreseen before that date. If Mr Geurts says that you have to establish this generic skimming only afterwards, that simply means that dairy farmers will only have a very short time to adapt. I don't think that's justified. If we allow this to float over the market and tell the European Commission that we are still seeing whether we are actually setting that rate of skimming, then we will have a much more difficult conversation than if we can give the Commission a guarantee beforehand that we will take the measures necessary to bring production back below the ceiling. We will really have to offer that guarantee in order to have a good negotiating position for a further derogation period. These are two, I think good, reasons for sticking to the date of 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u57	Does the Secretary of State see an opportunity to conclude the negotiations earlier? I foresee problems with that date next year. There's a couple of things coming together. If the cabinet is finished, we will have elections in March next year and then the formation of another cabinet. Something's wrong here. I feel that this does not give any clarity in that period. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of concluding the derogation negotiations earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u58	I take it that after the elections, the Chamber still thinks it is a good idea that I, possibly outgoing, am fully committed to these negotiations. There is not much going wrong then, because we will continue fully to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion. Should a transfer take place during that period because I am being followed by someone else, I assume that they will immediately fall into those negotiations. We are trying to do everything we can to ensure that this process is carried out as quickly as possible and to clarify it as quickly as possible. However, I cannot guarantee how quickly that will happen, because we are not the only party at the table. The expectation is not that this will work before 1 July 2017, but it will not be my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u59	In the previous derogation negotiations, we finally only got the derogation at the beginning of the period; that would be 2018. Everyone may think that this discount is not going to happen, but if we agree, it will go ahead. So we shouldn't do that. The Secretary of State has undertaken to inform the Chamber properly about every step of the process. That's good. I do need a zero reading, given the whole timeline. I also asked earlier: why not write from Brussels that you should apply that discount and introduce phosphate rights as of 1 July 2017, because otherwise Brussels will not even talk about the derogation? I think that is an interpretation of the Dutch Government. The Secretary of State says that's what Brussels wants. I would like to see that in writing in a letter from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u60	It's different, of course. We agreed in Brussels on the current derogation. The production ceiling is an agreement and we signed it. If we do not keep that agreement, then the ball is firmly with us. This means that we must take action. It is up to us to decide which measures are to be taken. As a Member State, we can fill that out ourselves. Only we will have to make sure that we stick to these agreements again. Brussels gives us that signal: you committed yourself to that agreement, we see with care that total phosphate production in the Netherlands is above the agreed ceiling, so you have to do something. But what we have to do, of course, is up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u61	That is clear, but the Dutch Government does not comply with the current agreements. That discount will not apply until 1 January 2018 at the earliest. That's the new period. Even then, the government does not comply, which merely indicates that that space is indeed there. I would like to hear from Brussels what scope there is in time for them to agree on the whole package instead of being one-sidedly ahead of the Dutch interpretation of the Brussels rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr Dijkgraaf concludes far too quickly that space is obviously there. The European Commission is now waiting for what we are doing. That's gonna have to be convincing. If it is not convincing, if it is not good enough, then the European Commission has the opportunity to withdraw our derogation. That's how it works. They will assess what we are ultimately putting on the table. We have now reported to them what the intention is, namely to ensure, through the phosphate rights system, that phosphate production is brought back below the agreed ceiling. I almost dare to put on a note that if we say that we give up and do nothing, we will immediately have a very difficult conversation with the European Commission. At the moment, it's nothing more than a plan. We still have a bill to make, and that has to be law. Of course, the European Commission also hears that we say that we will not be able to get below the ceiling again until 2018. That will undoubtedly not be received with cheers, but I think we can well justify that we cannot do it any faster in a reasonable manner. The consequences for dairy farms are incredibly great, because, as has just been discussed, there is a generic need to be skimmed. This is quite significant for the operation of a dairy farm.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u63	I suggest you speed up the rest of the points, Secretary of State. I just understood from the clerk, who has more sense there than I do, that there will also be a bill coming. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u64	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'm at the next block now, and that's about the core of what's to come into that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u65	Exactly. The bill will come back to the Chamber and it will also be dealt with extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u66	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. We have just talked about how nice it would be if we could do all that quickly. The more we have already discussed with each other, the simpler the discussion of the bill will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u67	No, this is a four-minute debate. I'd say go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u68	A number of groups spoke about land-based companies, including Mr Smaling. Then he shouldn't just walk away. He asked whether it was true that land-based companies are not actually completely spared. Others, including Mrs Koşer Kaya, asked for this. What we are doing is actually granting additional rights to land-based companies in the allocation of phosphate rights. My intention is to grant them so many additional rights that they will not lose net in the generic skimming. That's the intention. Whether I can make it happen depends on the final figures of the CBS of June 2016. I also believe that this generic skimming, which is produced by all the other companies, should not become too high. I set the upper limit in the letter at 8%. That's quite a blow to process for a company, a shrinkage of 8%. I think that's the end of it. Only when the figures are final in June of this year can we calculate whether it is possible to fully compensate those land-based companies in advance. That is what we do with the allocation of rights. There is a legal reason behind this: the skimming must be generic, the same for all companies, because of the purpose of this. That is why I give this compensation form to the allocation of rights, by allocating additional rights to land-based companies. Why does the letter say that they are compensated to some extent? That is because at the moment I cannot say to what extent that is possible, so whether that is complete or not. However, it is clearly my intention to do so. D66 and GroenLinks asked whether the transfer of phosphate rights could require a company to be 100% ground-bound in order to acquire new phosphate rights. That means that for a lot of companies that aren't 100% ground-bound, you're actually locking down all the development space. I don't think that's necessarily necessary. There are a lot of companies in the Netherlands that fully meet the ideal picture that I have heard many spokesmen sketch here, namely a not too large size.. an average company in the Netherlands has 89 cows, as I have already mentioned... with cows in the meadow. For cows in the meadow you need 1 hectare per 6 cows. To be ground bound you need 1 hectare per 2.5 cow. So you shouldn't be ground bound and still have a limited size, be a normal family business and have your cows walking in the meadows. I do not think that this is the doom that Mrs Koser Kaya and Mr Grashoff, for example, had in the companies and why, I think, they wanted to demand 100% ground-boundness. Their doom is, I think, focused on the very intensive farms where cows are only inside. I have just said that the AMvB on land-based growth does not allow these companies to intensify further. If these companies want to grow further, they can only do so by expanding, i.e. by buying up land. I have therefore chosen to maintain the system of this AMvB and thereby ensure that the soil density is at least increased and that there is a brake on the intensification of dairy farming. This has only been agreed very recently, after extensive debate in the Chamber. In this system, however, there is a continuation of skimming on transactions, even when the ceiling is reached. It is then used to fill a phosphate bank. The rights that the phosphate bank then receives can be spent on companies that meet certain societal objectives. Ground-boundness is the most obvious criterion. In this way, companies that are ground-bound can be further stimulated from 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u69	I see members at the interrupting microphone, but I suggest the Secretary of State finish this block. There is also an opportunity to hold a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mrs. Lodders asked how that latent space would be allocated. I have just explained that it is the intention to allocate land-based companies with latent space so many additional rights that they do not have to shrink de facto, net, if there is generic skimming. That's the intention. However, it depends on the figures that will be available in June whether this is actually possible and whether the generic skimming will not become too high if I do so. That is a prerequisite for me. Let us not forget that everything we give extra to some companies in the allocation is ultimately brought up by all the other companies. Mr Geurts, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether it was possible to choose a reference date other than 2 July 2015. They asked whether, for example, we can take the average of 2014, or the period between the end of 2014 and 2 July. The answer to that is very clear: it cannot be done. That's not because I don't want to. I would actually have liked it, because I would have found it much more just if we could have taken the average level of 2014. In fact, you would have automatically already paid the most of the bills to the companies that have started to grow hard when they might have foreseen that such a measure would be forthcoming. Legally, however, you cannot say to those companies that they could have foreseen that such a system would be in place. That certainty did not arise until 2 July in the letter from my predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma. For this legal reason, therefore, we will not be able to introduce into the law a date other than 2 July. If we do, I will say this to Mr Dijkgraaf, who also asked for it, then we run the risk of the whole system going down in court. If that happens, we will no longer comply with the commitments we have made with the European Commission. The risk is far too great. So, to my regret, it is not possible to choose a date other than 2 July 2015. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the transfer of phosphate law could not be better regulated in a way other than free marketability, for example through a stock exchange system. I don't think so, because the main purpose of a stock exchange system is to determine an average price level for phosphate law. The fair then distributes the rights. Entrepreneurs do not have any influence on the amount of rights they receive. This is a major obstacle to business development, regardless of what the government has to arrange for such a grant to be organised. That also means that we should fully frame him legally. There is free marketability and there are the conditions based on the AMvB on land-based growth. I think that together they actually offer the best guarantee to companies for keeping their future in their own hands. Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber spoke about the 10% skimming in the case of transfers of rights to family businesses. Mr Geurts said that he actually finds it unacceptable that if a company is transferred to a family member, the government comes down 10%. There is a kind of assumption that the government is being skimmed on transfer. Of course, that is not the case. Why did we opt for a skimming on transfer, especially as early as 2017, to get the production back below the ceiling? That's why we've chosen because everything you skim by handover, you don't have to roam generically in the end. Mr Geurts and Mrs Dik-Faber are now asking to exclude the transfer in the family sphere. That is possible, but they must realise that the bill will have to be paid by all the other family businesses. They will have to be groomed more generically. So I say to Mr Geurts: if the Chamber wants that exception, I am prepared to implement it, but then he must accept the consequence. This would simply mean that the removal on transfers would result in less reduction of phosphate production and therefore more generic skimming would have to be carried out. The account will therefore lie with the other family businesses. But I say again that I am willing to include that exception in the bill if the Chamber so wishes. Mrs Dikkers asked for the 10% creaming rate to be included in the law rather than in the ministerial regime. That seems to me to be a real consideration that the Court must make in the context of the legal process. I come to the questions of the SGP. Mr Dijkgraaf asked whether skimming should also apply to company takeovers, even if a company has not even grown. Even then, skimming is necessary. All companies contribute to phosphate production. We have chosen to bring that total production back under the ceiling through two tracks. A trace is the skimming on transactions. That is also the most just way, because the government actually cares about non-phosphate rights. These phosphate rights are immediately given value in the free movement of goods between undertakings. At the moment when someone then cashs in that value and transfers those rights and then says to the government: we take a piece of it for a social purpose, I think that is really only reasonable. Especially since, in this case, this means that generic skimming on all those other companies can be reduced. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the rate of skimming could not be increased gradually. We could if we had more time. However, we need to take the steps in 2017 to ensure that phosphate production is again below the agreed ceiling in 2018. So we actually only have one year to achieve that drop in production. Mrs Dikkers and Mr Smaling have asked whether there is room to give organic farmers a separate position. Organic farmers are, in any case, ground-bound and are therefore covered by the compensation that I have in mind. Furthermore, organic farmers, like other land-based farmers, also produce phosphate and thus contribute to the total phosphate production of the Netherlands, on which the Netherlands is paid for. So they are just like all other companies in this system, but because they are ground bound, the intention is to compensate them in advance through additional rights. I've already said it's my intention to fully compensate them, if that's possible. Mrs Koşer Kaya's questions were about compensating extensive farmers. So I've already answered it. Mrs Koşer Kaya has also asked how much a farmer who is ground-bound ultimately turns in. The intention is therefore nothing, because it is fully compensated in advance by the allocation of additional rights. However, I cannot guarantee that at this stage, because I am dependent on the June figures. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether land-based companies would be given priority in the phosphate bank. These rights are rights that are not transferable, because they are rights that you get to produce under certain conditions, in which you have to meet social goals. Through this phosphate bank we can support companies that meet these societal goals; we can make it easier for them to develop further because they do not need to buy rights, but can obtain those rights from the phosphate bank. This can be subject to a number of conditions. The most obvious is ground-boundness. I have to look at this in the drafting of the law, because other conditions have also been asked to be attached to it. For example, the PvdA and GroenLinks asked to add grazing as a criterion. At the moment, I have in mind that the phosphate bank is going to allocate rights on the basis of a tender. A distribution mechanism needs to be created, because more companies are likely to ask for these rights than rights are available. We're gonna have to decide which company is the first to qualify. The most obvious thing is to do that through a tender, where you could get points for a number of aspects. The most logical thing is ground-boundness. I am prepared to see if any other wishes can be included, such as grazing, which the PvdA talked about. The CDA has also mentioned young farmers. I'm willing to see if that's possible. However, I would say that it should also be possible legally, since it is legislation that is primarily concerned with achieving a number of environmental objectives, and these are criteria that are not one-to-one related to those environmental objectives, but I am prepared to look at them. Perhaps we can continue this discussion in the context of the legal process. D66 asked a similar question in the framework of the phosphate bank on environmentally neutral agriculture. I've answered it with this. With this I came at the end of this block and only remains the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u71	I am very sorry, but a lot has been interrupted and it is a four-minute debate and not legislation. There will be another bill, and I notice that there is anticipating it. I would therefore like to suggest that the Secretary of State finishes his story first. Then I will give you an opportunity to ask a question. Then we'll keep the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u72	On a point of order, Mr President. You've just made the suggestion of interrupting per block. If we do, you change the rules during the game. I really have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u73	I can understand that very well, Mr Grashoff, but you have interrupted more than six times. I do not want to say in advance that Members have two or three interruptions, in the hope that Members of Parliament will manage that themselves. If things get out of hand, I'm gonna have to intervene. After all, we have a schedule in which other debates, which are equally important, must also be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u74	We started this debate much later than planned. It is not this debate, it is what happened before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u75	I understand that very well. I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u76	For an interruption or for a remark in this little order debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u77	It's the little debate on order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u78	I agree with Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u79	Of course you agree with Mr Grashoff. I didn't have to ask you that, because everyone wants to interrupt. I'll allow one interruption. Then we go to the rounding. You simply have the opportunity to hold a second term. One more question, then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u80	I'd like to present to the Secretary of State the following. It concerns the reference date of 2 July. The Secretary of State says, "I can't do it legally," but I'd like to do it differently. I think there's another way. There's no other way to impose it. You can't say: we take the average over 2014 in the law. You can give people the choice legally: whether it is July 2, 2015.. the date in the letter.. or it is an alternative date if desired. I am thinking of a farmer who grows his stable on 2 July and suddenly has a lot less cows. It could be a month earlier. If you give that freedom of choice, it's legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u81	We have looked very closely at it in this process and have it looked at. I have also taken advice from the national attorney, precisely because, like Mr Dijkgraaf, I felt it was actually unfair to assume one date and not be able to rely on, for example, the year before that, in which companies had hardly grown. Mr Dijkgraaf is now saying: you may choose a date on which you had the highest number of cows. If the government builds up that possibility, there will be reason on all sides to challenge the law. In fact, other entrepreneurs will feel disadvantaged, as this will increase the generic skimming. We have looked at it from all sides. The only option that is legally so solid that we do not run the risk of undermining the system is simply based on 2 July 2015 for everyone. In the letter I wrote that we will have a very limited problem regulation for companies that were proven to be in a special situation on 2 July 2015 that does not fit in with regular business operations, so to speak. Suppose the farmer himself is ill for a long time and therefore has, on 2 July 2015, demonstrably less cattle than usual. That is such a case that we probably still have to work it out and could be eligible for a bottleneck scheme. We are therefore already taking into account the fact that sometimes special situations may have occurred which are severely disadvantaged by the fixed reference date. On this point, too, I would say that we will keep the bottleneck regime as limited as possible. After all, it is not the government that gives extra fees, it is the other companies that pay the bill for companies that get some extras. So it's a redistribution question. That is also why we are keeping the problem regulation as limited as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u82	I have the feeling that this regulation is very much in line with the fact that things have not yet been worked out and that there are still a lot of figures to be worked out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send a wide set of sample calculations to the Chamber as soon as those figures are available? Then we can see much more precisely what the effects are and how this system is going to work in the light of extensive and intensive placement space and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u83	Those figures will be there when we send the bill to the Chamber. So I will try to make it as clear as possible what the effects of the bill are on the basis of the then known figures. Of course there is uncertainty in the plan as we have drawn up now, namely that we do not know how many transactions and transfers are going to take place during 2017. On these transfers, 10% is skimmed. If there are a lot of transfers, a lot of transactions get skimmed. This means that there is much less generic need to be skimmed on companies. If there are few transfers in 2017, there must be a generic increase in the size of all other companies. So I cannot calculate in advance how large the generic skimming will be. On the contrary, I deliberately chose not to fix this until 1 July 2017, because it offers the opportunity to set that percentage as low as possible, namely by achieving as much as possible from the skimming on transfers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u84	My group is critical of the intention to allow phosphate rights to be negotiable on the free market. We are really afraid of a price-raising effect. I would not want phosphate rights to be bought only by capital-intensive companies. My group has proposed a private stock exchange system. The Secretary of State is critical of that. I would like to give that for something else, if the Secretary of State can convince me that we can set up the system in such a way that we make phosphate rights available to ordinary family and family businesses that want a little bit of expansion. How are we going to prevent phosphate rights from falling into the hands of capital-intensive companies alone with the system proposed by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u85	I'm not so afraid of the latter. If you want to grow, you will of course have to purchase phosphate rights. These phosphate rights are given a certain value. This will be related to the extent to which you can recoup the investment, but the companies Mrs Dik-Faber is referring to are larger companies, which are often very intensive and cannot grow without investing in land. The investment they need to make in land is expected to require much more money than the additional investment they will have to make in phosphate rights. The limiting factor here is therefore the investment that needs to be made in land. This limiting factor does not apply to extensive holdings, the category of holdings with less than 20 kilograms of surplus. Those companies do not need to invest extra in land. These companies only need to invest in phosphate rights and therefore need a much lower investment to achieve growth than the intensive companies. The certainty that Mrs Dik-Faber is looking for is basically already embedded in the AMvB about ground-based growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u86	There are a lot of questions to ask under the heading "faults," but I ask one; the rest I will ask in the legal process. All dairy farms are special farms, but we also have very special farms. These are a kind of pilot companies, for example the knowledge transfer centre Zegveld. That has been taken over, research is being carried out on meadows, et cetera. The specific question is whether the Secretary of State will include in the law a discretionary power to assess whether or not phosphate rights are granted in such special cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u87	No, I'm not gonna do that. If I do that, I will actually open the door, because then everyone can claim that discretionary power and I will also make it very legally vulnerable. I want a very clear and very limited problem regulation, to which companies that really had a specific circumstance on 2 July 2015 can claim. We really need to work on this within the framework of the law, but I also agreed with the sector organisations to make it as limited as possible. The greater the scope of that scheme, the greater the price other companies have to pay. If I open a door somewhere, I run the risk of having to give too many troubles, which increases the bill for all those family businesses, which Mr Geurts rightly says are paying the bill. I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u88	First I notice that I am replacing my colleague Dikkers. I have a question about the grazing. Does the Secretary of State take grazing as a condition for the release of phosphate from the phosphate bank? That was the specific question. Is that the intention or does the Secretary of State mean something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u89	"Condition" means that you can only be eligible for rights from the phosphate bank. How am I looking at that phosphate bank right now? I have just explained that it probably needs to be a tender system, because it needs to be determined somewhere which company does and which company does not qualify. With a tender system it is obvious that you can earn points based on a number of goals. The more points you have, the higher you get in the priority order. Groundboundness is the most obvious. I have just promised to see whether it is possible to include two objectives put forward by the Chamber, namely grazing and young farmers, but that must also be legal. That's something other than an absolute condition. So it's a tender system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u90	So it's a starting point. That's my conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u92	I'll ask the Secretary of State to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u93	I do that by answering the remaining questions. Mr Dijkgraaf asked if there is any phosphate space to prevent bankruptcies, for example by salading. There is no such area; I assume that this is evident after everything that has been exchanged in this debate before. Mr Geurts asked me how I was focusing on accompanying policy. I would like to point out, for example, the distribution of the EUR 30 million we received from the European Commission last autumn because of the market situation. Of this, 10 million will be devoted to dairy farming, including structural improvements, including the introduction of the circular guide. 10 million has also been made available for the promotion of manure processing, 50% of which is for the benefit of dairy farming. Of the 30 million, 15 million are therefore used for dairy farming, a large part of which is for manure. The SP asked if there could be a regional survey. I don't want to place regional bulkheads. We need to bring down the national phosphate production level. That is a national problem, which we also need to solve nationally. Mr Geurts asked how the system would work in relation to leases and leases. The phosphate rights are allocated to the keepers of animals on the basis of the I&R data, i.e. not to the holders of land. These are animals that produce phosphate. For that, you need phosphate rights. It is therefore obvious to grant those phosphate rights to animal keepers. Mr Geurts asked if there was room for leasing rights. Yes, that's the case. The RVO will register who has the rights. If lots indicate that a certain amount of rights should be transferred, the RVO will carry out this. The RVO will therefore also skim, but does not look at what parties agree on the conditions under which those rights are transferred. It therefore does not matter whether there is a purchase, lease or rent. Lease of phosphate rights is therefore possible. We are still looking at whether we can arrange something special for the specific situation where, for example, rights are leased and return to the original owner after a short period of time. Mr Dijkgraaf asked how farmers should arrive at a final manure accounting. This is separate from the phosphate rights system, which is about phosphate production. The manure accounts focus more on the system of use standards. So that's separate from each other. The Group of the Party of Labour asked if I would be willing to make an inventory of the possibilities and bottlenecks to achieve the Better Life label for dairy, i.e. the star system for milk and cheese. Animal protection and the dairy sector have been discussing this since autumn 2015. The question has come from the dairy sector itself. I warmly welcome such initiatives from civil society organisations and sectoral organisations. It is also in line with the way the dairy sector operates, which has set various sustainability objectives through the Sustainable Dairy Chain. Part of the dairy sector and the retail sector also have support for the Better Life label, so I am willing to inform in my regular contacts with the Animal Protection about the progress made on this and the introduction of the Better Life label for dairy. I am naturally prepared to take this road when it comes to problems relating to legislation and regulations or to public policy. I would like to support such initiatives from society. Several groups asked for the removal of the bulkheads between pig rights, poultry rights and phosphate rights. For example, the SP asked if I could link the necessary restructuring in the pig sector to this. When, in answering the questions of the Chamber, I indicated that I intend to include in the law a hook that would allow the rights to be exchanged among themselves, that immediately led to a lot of discussion. I have to say that I expected this somewhat, because there are differences of opinion in and between the different sectors. I want to ensure that, at the time when, for example, there would be a need in the dairy sector and the pig sector to transfer one type of right to another, we do not have to change the whole law. I want to have a hook in the law that makes that possible. I would like to make it quite clear that the ball is with the sectors. I can imagine that there are parties, both within the pig sector and in dairy farming, which say: it would be attractive if, for example, temporary pig rights could be converted into phosphate rights. But once again, that question has to come from the bottom up. I don't think this is something the government should impose from above. At the moment, pig farming is looking at how it intends to restructure the sector. Dairy farming also has its own problems and questions. At the moment when the request to use that hook comes from both sectors, I am prepared to do so. But I don't do anything more than create the hook. So it really is up to the sectors themselves. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions raised by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Smaling. Speaking time per political group is one minute and twenty seconds, including tabling motions. What are you looking for, Mr. Smaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u95	I'm still waiting for a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u96	The motion is coming, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u97	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the clear answer. I have a few more motions. I think they're more or less in line with what the Secretary of State said, but I'm happy to submit them anyway. Then I'll hear from his reaction if he thinks we're close. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a scheme that does not undermine new organic dairy farms, expanding organic dairy farms and farms that switch to organic dairy farming by the phosphate rights system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that land-based dairy farmers should not suffer from the phosphate rights system, as they are not blamed for exceeding the phosphate ceiling;]] [[calls on the Government to fully compensate land-based dairy farmers for reductions in their phosphate rights;]] [[calls on the Government to allow land-based companies wishing to expand in a land-based manner in the introduction of the phosphate rights system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas some 20% of pig farmers are in financial difficulties;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan to allow pig farmers who so wish to dispose of pig rights as dairy phosphate rights once, while making this plan more sustainable and complying with motion 21501-32, No. 855 which the government asks to send to a switch from quantity to quality of production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling, Mr Grashoff and Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-110]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-111]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u98	I look forward to the bill in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u99	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas phosphate rights should not be an obstacle to company succession;]] [[calls on the Government not to roam the transfer of phosphate rights within the family up to the third degree,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether the proposal for a phosphate rights system is sufficient for the European Commission to grant a further derogation to the Netherlands, while the proposal has a very significant impact on dairy farming;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss the relationship between phosphate rights and derogation with the Nitrates Committee and the European Commission as soon as possible and to determine the generic reduction of phosphate rights in accordance with the negotiations on the Sixth Action Programme of the Nitrates Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the infinite skimming of phosphate rights when phosphate production is below the phosphate ceiling is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how unnecessary skimming of phosphate rights, when phosphate production is below the phosphate ceiling, can be avoided as far as possible, for example by stopping skimming as soon as CBS figures show that phosphate production is under the phosphate ceiling for two years in a row,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many family farms in dairy farming are in danger of falling due to difficult economic conditions and the introduction of laws and regulations;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for accompanying policies, including a guarantee scheme for certain companies that cannot fulfil their financial obligations by building a stable or purchasing land, and to consider how to extend the green scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-113]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-114]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-115]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u100	I'll give you the second, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr. Chairman. I'm also filing four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to grant additional phosphate rights to land-based dairy farms for part of the latent placement area;]] [[calls on the Government to fully compensate land-based dairy farms with latent placement space for the generic discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u102	I'd be happy to sign this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr. Chairman. I also had a single motion which I was hoping to table on behalf of Mrs Thieme, but I do not know if you will allow me to do so. I'll keep it pretty short. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years the livestock sector has experienced a build-up of national, complex legislation;]] [[believes that we should move towards simpler regulation in balance with nature, environment and animal welfare;]] [[calls on the government to conduct independent investigations into how we could grow widely in the livestock sector towards soil-based animal rights, while simplifying legislation, and inform the Chamber of 1 January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u104	No, they're coming to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u105	You're the first petitioner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u106	Yes, of course. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State wishes to compensate for extensive land-based dairy farms for the skimming of rights;]] [[Whereas the extent to which extensive land-based dairy farms are compensated is not clear and on the basis of which criteria the phosphate rights are distributed from the phosphate bank;]] [[calls on the Government to provide, in good time for the treatment of the dairy law, summaries and calculation examples of how and to what extent extensive land-based dairy farms are compensated and also how phosphate rights are distributed from the phosphate bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to waive the request to the European Commission for the removal or increase of the national phosphate production ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to waive the request to the European Commission for the removal or increase of the national phosphate production ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an ex-ante evaluation of the effects of the phosphate rights system on all relevant environmental frameworks and social requirements such as grazing and animal welfare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-122]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-123]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-124]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that phosphate rights are becoming freely negotiable and that dairy farmers should thus be able to choose between phosphate rights and land, thus facilitating further intensification; Whereas this may have adverse effects, in particular on grazing; Whereas linking phosphate rights to land renders separate regulation on land-based growth unnecessary; calls on the Government, for the purchase of phosphate rights, to have sufficient land to drive out that manure and to be able to feed its cows as a condition, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Koşer Kaya and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 126 (33979). [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that farmers wishing to convert from common to organic farming may only sell their products as organic after two years;]] [[Whereas this means that costs have a significant impact on benefits;]] [[calls on the Government to explore ways of making this transition more economically attractive and removing unnecessary obstacles and to inform the Court before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koşer Kaya and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue a phosphate regime only if it is clear that at least phosphate exports to countries with phosphate shortages do not count for the phosphate ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue a phosphate regime only if Brussels is in principle positive about the proposed derogation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that farms are also allowed to opt for a reference period, such as, for example, the average number of dairy cows in the first half of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sector, to include an evaluation exercise and a deadline with possible conditions in the legal anchoring of the phosphate rights system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that dairy farms which have not grown or have hardly grown in recent years are affected as little as possible by a generic discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to create more phosphate area for dairy farming by reducing the conversion of pig rights into phosphate rights through a tender scheme and by paying temporary exceedances of the phosphate ceiling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-128]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-129]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-130]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-131]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-132]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u109	In short, I have not tabled enough motions, because I have 16 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u110	Yes, but I have to say, you're filing a lot of motions together. That is your right, but that does not mean that you will be able to interfere with any motion. I'm sure I'll announce that now. It is either one or the other: or a number of motions with many interruptions or so many motions that I can only allow a few interruptions. Having said that, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, and that's what I'm going to do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the adoption of a new derogating decision is important for Dutch dairy farming, and that meeting the water targets is part of the derogation decision of the Nitrates Directive and that the focus is on agricultural sources;]] [[noting that other sources such as sewage flooding, water birds and of course torment also affect water quality in the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government, on the basis of sufficient practical data, and not only on the basis of theoretical models, to identify where, and what is the share of sources other than Dutch agriculture in concentrations of nitrogen and phosphate in surface water, and what effect these sources have on achieving the water targets;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the extent to which water boards apply stricter standards than those required under the Water Framework Directive and to what extent they have strengthened standards in recent years;]] [[calls on the Government to share these analyses with the Chamber before the summer, and to include these analyses in the basis for the commitment to the new action programme and to obtain a new derogation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33979-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u112	I filed a slightly longer motion: it's two in one. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the information he has promised on the negotiations on the derogation. I have one more question, which I hadn't gotten to before, to the troubles. There has already been some attention to this in the case of interruption. Where can people come forward in the run-up to the law if they want to spruce about it? So this is about the people who think they can be considered as troublesome, in the case of the farmer's disease, animal disease and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u113	It turns out to me that the Secretary of State doesn't have all the motions yet. We'll wait until he gets all the motions. The MPs have done a lot of work and filed 25 motions. I can already announce that we are not going to discuss every motion, because we are already running out of time. I'm going to ask the Secretary of State to respond to all the motions. In a single case, I will allow an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u114	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to say that the Chamber has every right to table motions, even if there are 25, but we will not debate all motions. The Secretary of State is invited to give a brief and firm response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mr. Chairman. I'll certainly try. I would like to thank the Chamber for tabling all these motions, which also helps to clarify the drafting of this law at the end of this debate. It can only benefit us further in the process. I was asked one single question, namely by Mrs Lodders. She asked where people who think on the basis of a good story might be eligible for the bottlenecks regime. If Mrs Lodder's intention is to ask whether we are involved in the drafting of the law, then I say that the sector organisations LTO Netherlands, the NZO and Network are the basic channels for this. They're just sitting at our table. We will continue to talk to them about the impact of the emergency provision. If there is and the law has entered into force, people can report to the National Entrepreneurship Agency of the Netherlands (RVO). I should like to comment on the motion by Mr Smaling, Mr Grashoff and Mr Koşer Kaya on part No. 110 on organic dairy farming. I see this motion as a policy support. I do not come up with a separate scheme for organic dairy farming, but I have indicated that I want to compensate land-based farms in advance for the skimming, so that they are actually spared. I have also said that I want to be able, through the phosphate bank, to allocate rights to companies that are involved in achieving a number of societal goals, the most obvious of which is ground-based. I see the motion in that sense as a policy support, because biological companies benefit from both intentions. The same is true of the Smaling/Grashoff motion in part No. 111. It calls for land-based companies wishing to expand in a land-based manner to be allowed to do so when the phosphate rights system is introduced. Once the system is in place, which will be the case from 2018, land-based companies wishing to expand can also apply for phosphate bank rights. The first request in the said motion is to fully compensate land-based dairy farmers for reductions in their phosphate rights. I have said that this is my intention, but I cannot guarantee that at the moment. For that, I need the final figures of the CBS. However, it is my commitment. As the authors make a request to the government, I can say that this motion supports the policy. On the motions on items Nos. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. I come to the Smaling motion in part No. 911 on the pig farmers. Since the government is requested in this motion to come up with a plan, I advise against the motion. As I have already said, I will make a provision in the law that makes it possible to convert pig rights into phosphate rights. This must be done in a certain proportion, because the conversion of phosphate duties must be calculated and ammonia emissions must also be taken into account. I leave it to the sectors themselves to decide whether they want to make use of this provision. The Management Group on Vital Pigs, the Rosenthal Committee, is working on an action plan for the future of pig farming. I await the outcome of that. I therefore advise against the motion as it has now been formulated. I'm coming up on the Geurts c.s. motion. in piece No. 113, in which the government is asked not to remove the transfer of phosphate rights within the family to the third degree. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I said during this debate that the consequence is that generic skimming is likely to be higher than if you do not. But if the Chamber wishes this, I'll put this in the law. In the Geurts/Dik-Faber motion in part No. 114 the government is invited to discuss the relationship between phosphate rights and derogation with the Nitrates Committee and the European Commission as soon as possible and to determine the generic discount only thereafter. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this. That's not the right order. I don't have that space either. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The reduction shall be determined on the basis of the level of exceedance and shall serve the objective of returning to below the ceiling as soon as possible. I come to the Geurts/Dijkgraaf motion in part No. 115. In this motion, the government is asked to consider how to unnecessarily skim phosphate rights, I assume that this means rights to transactions if phosphate production falls below the phosphate ceiling for two years in a row. I'm dissuading the motion. I have already indicated that I want to skim transactions not only to bring phosphate production back below the ceiling, but also to fill a phosphate bank and thereby allocate rights to companies. In particular, it is a question of offering development opportunities to smaller land-based companies, without having to bribe them in order to acquire phosphate rights. It is precisely in order to support this type of smaller companies, often also family businesses, that I want to continue to skim transactions, so that the phosphate bank is filled. I would add that, of course, the Chamber can amend laws at any time. If the Court no longer considers this system desirable in future, it can terminate it itself. But that goes for every law. I come to the Geurts/Dijkgraaf motion in part No. 116, in which the government is invited to come forward with proposals for accompanying policies, i.e. more than 30 million from the envelope. I have no other means at my disposal than the 30 million. I therefore have no option for accompanying policy other than what has already been used. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I come to the motion by Mr Dik-Faber/Koşer Kaya on part No. 117 in which the government is asked to fully compensate land-based dairy farms for the generic discount. As I have already said, that is my intention. I cannot guarantee it yet, but since it is my intention, I consider this motion to support policy. I'm coming to the motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 118, in which the government is asked to organise the marketability of phosphate rights in consultation with the sector in such a way as to ensure transparency on demand, supply and prices, for example through a stock exchange system. During this debate, I indicated that I did not opt for a stock exchange system and that I do not want to include it in the law either. By law, we regulate free marketability. If sector organisations, together with their supporters, want to shape free marketability by, for example, organising a stock exchange, that is of course possible. We are always prepared to enter into consultations. I have said before that this also has disadvantages for companies, because they do not have the certainty in advance that they can deliver on their development plan. But if sector organisations have the desire to use the existing legal system, which is based on free marketability, and to organize such a stock exchange privately, that is of course possible. We are always prepared to look with the sector organisations to see how this can be organised. That is something other than what the motion is asking for. This motion asks me to take responsibility for it. I think that is a step too far, because in this system of phosphate rights I have not opted for such a thing. That is why I must discourage this motion, although I would like to stress that I do see that space for private organisations. The motion in part No. 119 calls on the government to reserve a large proportion of the skimmed phosphate rights from the phosphate bank for dairy farmers with latent space who have concrete growth plans. I consider this motion to be a policy support. Indeed, it is our intention that the rights that end up in the phosphate bank can actually be paid from 2018. From that year on, production will be below the ceiling. A number of criteria need to be established for this. I have already said that ground-boundness is, in any case, a very obvious criterion for this. So I certainly intend to include it in the criteria for phosphate banks. I therefore consider this motion to support the policy. The motion in part No. 120 calls on the government to set the rate of skimming at 10% first, then 15% six months later and then 20% thereafter. If the Chamber chooses that, I'll work it out in the law. However, this is not the choice I have made, and I therefore advise against this motion. I have chosen to keep that skimming rate at 10% sustainably and not to vary it, because it can provoke strategic behavior. I would therefore advise against this motion, but if the Chamber decides otherwise, I will, of course, implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u116	The Secretary of State spoke of "strategic behaviour." I think that's what the motion is even trying to do. We want to seduce dairy farms to act quickly, so we can get below the ceiling faster and apply a lower generic discount. So it's strategic behavior, but it's also very desirable strategic behavior. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to look at this motion with such an eye?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u117	I'd seen that this was the idea that was behind it. I have to say, I think it's a creative idea, but it's not the choice I made. The choice I made, I have aligned with the various sector organisations. I have agreed to this and I am committed to these agreements. So I advise against this motion. If the Court decides otherwise because it finds it interesting to encourage this strategic behaviour, that is a decision of the Chamber to which I shall respond. But I dissuade the motion because I made other arrangements about it. I believe that these agreements will also lead to the possibility that some of the necessary shrinkage will hopefully be achieved by skimming off transactions, thus limiting generic skimming. But I'd like to hear what the Chamber decides on your motion. I reject the Grashoff motion in part No. 121 on research into ground-based animal rights. We have already laid down in the Law responsible growth dairy farming and in the AMvB land-based growth the commitment to more land-boundness. I have said that intensive companies cannot intensify further. They need to expand to be able to grow further. They're gonna have to buy some land. I do not think that full groundboundness is a necessary end goal. If there were no surpluses, we would have a serious problem in the field of arable crops when it comes to fertilization. I think it is a good thing that we have put a brake on the further intensification of the sector. That is what happened with the AMvB land-based growth. I think this will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u118	My intention was not to define a fixed definition of full groundboundness, but the principle of groundboundness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u119	That principle is of course already in the AMvB ground-based growth. It's now being converted into a law. The bill is already in the Chamber and I hope that we will be able to deal with it quickly. I told you, this is inextricably linked to the proposal on phosphate rights. In that the principle is actually already secured. It gives land-based farms or companies with a very limited surplus all the room to grow, without any further restrictions being imposed. Companies that are more intensive and have a larger surplus have to account for part of the growth with land. They must therefore acquire land in order to grow. They need to expand and become more ground bound. In that sense, that principle has already been secured. In the Grashoff/Koşer Kaya motion on part No. 122 the government is asked for calculation examples. I can take over that motion. I'll do that with a comment. I have indicated that I will have the offer of the bill accompanied by an offer letter to the Chamber, in which I will try to make it clear what the effects may be. I cannot do this in the explanatory statement, because it must be finished before the figures appear. I can only do it rough. I can't calculate it exactly for every type of company. I have also indicated to the Chamber that I cannot predict in advance how many transfers there will be and how many transactions there will be. These determine the level of generic skimming. What we can do is to calculate on the basis of these figures how much room there is for compensation for land-based companies and to calculate whether it is possible to fully compensate them in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u120	The Secretary of State has indicated that he has the Grashoff/Koşer Kaya motion in part No. 122 takes over. I note that there is no objection to this. The motion shall no longer be subject to debate and shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u121	In motions in part No. 123 and in part No. 124 is requested to waive the request to the European Commission to delete or increase the national phosphate production ceiling. I dissuade both motions. I indicated earlier in this debate that we want to achieve a balance on the manure market next year by setting the compulsory rates for manure processing. Then we have a good basis to start talking to the European Commission about removing the ceiling or taking account of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr Grashoff has an announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u123	And it comes to the particular conclusion that he has twice tabled exactly the same motion. I can tell you that I'm withdrawing one of them, and that's the motion in part No. 124.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u124	Since the Grashoff/Thieme motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u125	That amends my opinion on the motion in part No. 123 doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u126	I like that the advice stays the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u127	It would have been a nice figure. In the motion in part No. 125 is requested to carry out an ex ante evaluation. As I said, we do not have the time. We will have to take action quickly. In the motion in part No. 126 is requested to link the purchase of phosphate rights to sufficient land to drain the manure and feed the cows associated with it. This means that companies must be fully ground-bound in order to be able to buy phosphate rights. This also means that all other companies will no longer be able to develop at all. The majority of Dutch dairy farming will not be able to develop further. That seems undesirable to me, and that is why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 127 is about making the conversion to organic farming more attractive. Last week, during a general meeting, I said that I am looking at it. I'm looking into what I could do to make that switch easier. I was going to inform the Chamber about that before the summer. If it's really just about exploring, I can promise to inform the Chamber about it before the summer. I see the motion as a policy support. Mrs Koşer Kaya can also hold the motion until she gets word from me. Mr Dijkgraaf asked in his motion for a resolution for item No. 128 to continue the phosphate duty regime only if phosphate exports do not count. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. I indicated in the debate that we will have to convince the Commission that we are just sticking to the current agreements. Only then will we have a basis to talk about new wishes and ambitions. The motion in part No. 129 I also advise against. It reverses the order. Mr Dijkgraaf asked for the phosphate rights regime to be continued only if Brussels was positive about the proposed derogation. I think that we can only discuss a future derogation if we show that we are complying with the current agreements. In the motion in part No. 130 the government is invited to ensure that farms are also allowed to opt for a reference period, e.g. the average number of dairy cows in the first half of 2015. I consider this to be extremely legally vulnerable. This will lead companies to see when they had the largest number of dairy cows. This also leads to double counting because dairy cows sometimes move from one holding to another and are counted by both farms. This is extremely legally vulnerable and also leads to higher skimming. I expect companies to challenge this higher skimming and say: I am being skimmed, while someone else has actually counted my dairy cattle as well. So I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 131 requires an evaluation time and an end date. I advise against this motion. When drafting the legislative proposal, I will consider whether it is appropriate to include in it the possibility of abolishing the system on a certain date, as was the case with poultry rights and pig rights. I have already said that this has financial consequences, both for the Empire and for the individual dairy farms. I expect it to have a price uplifting effect, as I have said before. Because of the loss of income, making this choice also requires the involvement of the Minister of Finance. So I'm gonna look into that, but I can't promise. So I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 132 is requested to ensure that dairy farms which have not grown or have hardly grown in recent years are affected as little as possible by a generic reduction. That has always been my commitment to this process. I have therefore explored the possibility of including this in the system. However, I have to conclude that it is not possible to do so, that there is no legal basis for this. That is why I have chosen the ground-based criterion. Land-based farms are compensated in advance, so that they are in any case spared. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 133 again deals with the conversion of pig rights into phosphate rights. I said I'd create a hook in the law for that. If both sectors wish to use that hook, I am prepared to use it. There is, however, a second part of the motion, which calls for temporary exceedances of the phosphate ceiling to be met. I must, of course, be very unadvised about that. It is precisely because we are bringing total phosphate production back under the ceiling to meet the commitments we have made. Then I come to the last motion, the motion in part No. 134 by Mrs Lodders, Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Geurts on the report on water standards. I ask the petitioners to hold their motion. The cabinet will respond to the report of the Mesdag Zuivelfonds Foundation before 1 June at the request of the Committee for I and M. It's good to see that in width. That is also apparent from the motion for a resolution. Part of the operative part, for example, focuses on the responsibility of the Minister of I and M and not on my responsibility. I think it would be wise to consider that in the broadest sense in the reaction. Hopefully, the report that Wageningen UR and Alterra are now preparing on the contribution of the agricultural sector to the objectives of the Water Framework Directive, including a cost-benefit analysis, will be available. Then we can include that as a cabinet. So before 1 June, the Chamber will receive a letter from the Minister of I and M and me together with a response to that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u128	Then the Secretary of State can simply take over the motion. The motion asks the government to send that analysis to the Chamber before the summer and to answer the questions. I am very pleased that this will happen before 1 June, because I think speed is very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u129	As I said, things are being asked that are not in my area, but primarily in the area of the Minister of I and M. I didn't get to talk to her about taking over this motion, so I don't think it's appropriate to do that. That is why I ask the petitioners to hold the motion. The Chamber will receive a letter before 1 June in which it will also address the questions raised by the Committee for I and M. It addresses your questions as much as possible, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u130	This motion has been drawn up correctly from the field of view of livestock farming. These are matters relevant to the application for derogation. That is why the motion has been drafted as it has been drafted. I hear the Secretary of State say that he will come forward with a response together with the Minister before 1 June. It is mainly up to the Secretary of State to respond to the questions raised in the motion. I think that's pretty simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u131	I understand that. Those questions are all noted. So we will also include them in the response that the Chamber will receive before 1 June. The request was to hold this motion. However, if Mrs Lodder does not do so and puts her to the vote, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber because she asks me to go into that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u132	I want the motion in part no. 911, please. I'll wait for that hook the Secretary of State mentioned. If the Secretary of State is still speaking to the sector before then, I would like to know if the sector can provide some more input. How does the sector itself intend to make use of this? I'd find that valuable. I'd like to give that request to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u133	At the request of Mr Smaling, I propose his motion (33979, No. 112). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr Smaling asked me a question. I expect to speak with the Rosenthal Committee, which also includes the sector, in the not too long term. I will therefore speak about the report that the committee is preparing. This will undoubtedly be part of that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-9.u135	I would like to congratulate the Chamber warmly on the very effective way in which it is debated. The same applies to the Secretary of State, whom I would like to thank warmly. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
