ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. This bill introduces into the criminal proceedings the legal possibility of an unlimited right to speak for victims of serious crimes and their survivors. This makes it possible for them to speak at the hearing about the possible evidence, the offence, the defendant's fault and the punishment. The proposal is therefore part of the development that has been taking place in recent years in order to pay more attention to victims of crime. My group can be brief about this bill. It has our full support. However, I do not want to dwell on this statement of adhesion and on a single point. The first is that in practice there appears to be a need for the extension of the right to speak, as proposed in this legislative proposal. In many cases, the court already gives a more extensive opportunity to speak in practice. The legislative proposal provides a legal basis for this and therefore provides a national uniform basis. My group believes that this is desirable. The second point is that, at the stage of the written procedure, possible hooks and eyes of the introduction of an extensive right of speech have been discussed. The position of victims and relatives, who also speak about the facts themselves and then can be questioned as witnesses, has been discussed. The idea would then be that in the latter case they could undergo an undesirable re-experience of the event. There has also been a possible disappointment that victims and relatives may experience when they express themselves on the level of punishment and the allocation of punishment is lower. My group sees these tension areas, but believes that they can be there without this legislative proposal. During the course of the treatment, it was expressly confirmed that victims and survivors wishing to exercise the right to speak would be thoroughly prepared for this. The third point concerns the question of the penalty itself. The original bill contained a formal advisory right of victims and relatives as to the degree of punishment. The introduction of this would have meant a break in the system of criminal proceedings. De facto, a tripartite system would be created, in which not only OM and suspect, but also victim or next of kin would really be party. My group would have had serious reservations about such an amendment, but that is not the issue here. My group has confidence in the professionalism of the criminal court in order to properly appreciate the contribution of the victim or the next of kin to the measure of punishment. My group also considers that this proposal guarantees the balanced criminal procedure of those involved in criminal proceedings. Understandably, during the discussion of this proposal, attention was paid to the extension of the right to speak. However, there is another element in the legislative proposal, namely the extension of the Compensation Fund for Violent Crimes, which makes it possible for survivors of victims of serious traffic offences to be granted compensation. My group appreciates that, too. With interest, my group will be following the plenary debate on this proposal today, but I can therefore already give its support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u3	Madam President. In each legislative proposal we have to ask ourselves two important questions: is there a problem and, if so, is the legislative proposal a solution? We must also ask these questions about this proposal. Serious crimes often cause victims, people who suffer from mental, physical or material damage. It is a fact of experience that each victim tries to process it in his own way, either alone or with help, in silence, or by speaking out, more specifically: by giving his opinion at the hearing. This group is now faced with restrictions. Some of them have trouble with that. They use the heavy word "censorship." They are recognised by a number of court presidents, who give them an unlimited right to speak. This is contrary to the law, but also significant at the same time. Apparently, there is a problem: we are failing these victims. This bill offers a solution. It removes the existing restriction. My group is in favour of this. One court offers more speaking space to victims than the other. This randomness disappears. Sometimes a court president thinks he should take the floor from a victim. This leads to painful situations in the courtroom. Hopefully that won't happen again. More attention will be paid to victims who need it. The victim can be fully informed in advance. Then he speaks as he likes and because he wants to. Of course, that always happens within the order of the hearing. He can bring up what he wants, but he doesn't have to. He may also waive his right to speak. This does justice to the position in which the victim, often against his will, has ended up. In addition, there is another equally positive aspect. That's information to the court and the state's attorney's office. A comprehensive victim's statement can give more insight into the seriousness of the fact and the circumstances in which it was committed. Of course, objections have also been raised to an unlimited right to speak. The first objection is that there is no problem and therefore no need for a solution, because there are alternatives. The second objection is that the victim may have to be heard as a witness. He'll relive the trauma. The third objection is that a ruling on the level of punishment may lead to disappointment on the part of the victim when the sentence imposed is lower. The fourth objection is that there may be increasing confrontation and brutality in criminal proceedings. The fifth objection is that an eloquent victim could influence the sentence. The sixth objection is that a victim's statement about the degree of punishment does not serve the purposes of the criminal trial. The seventh objection is that the criminal trial may take longer. My group understands these objections, but does not give decisive weight to them. I'd like to explain. The first objection is that the problem has not been demonstrated in figures. Indeed, there are few exact figures available. Not all victims have been surveyed. There are victims who are satisfied, but there may be at least so many victims who are dissatisfied. It is precisely for them that this bill meets. Of course, the victim can tell his story in all kinds of places, but these are not alternatives, as his wish is to speak at the place where the crime is tried, in front of the judge and perhaps the suspect. The second objection concerns the questioning of the victim. When the victim talks about the facts, he may be questioned as a witness, at the risk of re-experience of the crime. However, most of the time he has declared himself to be a witness before. In doing so, there was the same risk of an unwanted re-experience. So the question is why we should protect him now when we didn't do it at an earlier stage. My group believes that the choice between talking or not about the facts is up to the victim himself. He can be well prepared by the District Attorney and Victim Help Netherlands. It can contribute to the truth finding. If necessary, the judge may refer the case back to the Judge Commissioner. The third objection concerns the penalty. When the victim talks about the measure of punishment, this could lead to disappointment. That disappointment then lies in the difference between the victim's view of the degree of punishment and the sentence imposed, but not in the statement of his opinion at the hearing. He has his opinion anyway, regardless of the right to speak or not limited. Information in advance and the justification in the judgment afterwards can limit disappointment, but we cannot spare the victim the disappointment, not even by keeping him silent. There is no formal obligation to state reasons as a result of the victim's statement, but a substantive obligation to respond is considered, both for the prosecutor and for the judge. My group does not see this as a disadvantage, but rather as an opportunity to explain and understand the claim and the verdict. The fourth objection, that of more confrontation and brutality in the process, is real. The extension of the right to speak is not a start, but a follow-up step. Even now, the victim is involved in the criminal proceedings without leading to unacceptable confrontations, such as the declaration, the testimony, a letter to the court, mediation or the handling of a civil claim in the criminal proceedings. The VVD Group insists that it is the criminal law's core business to maintain order during the hearing. That task is very much entrusted to him. The fifth objection is that there is a chance that the victim's statement will affect the judge. However, the criminal court has proven that he can channel emotions. The trial has all kinds of emotions, not only of suspects, witnesses, press and gallery, but also of the victim. The criminal court should manage that at the hearing. He usually succeeds in this. There is no reason to believe that the extension of the right to speak would be the drop in the legal bucket. The judge must also be fully informed. He must assess not only the legal criminality of the offence and of the suspect, but also the seriousness of the fact and the circumstances in which it was committed. This includes, in my view, the extensive explanation given by the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u4	The last part of your speech was about the consequences that the right to speak might have on the court. You said that there is no reason to believe that the judge could not cope with the task of channeling potentially increasing emotions resulting from the extension of the right to speak. However, are we sure enough that the judge will be able to handle that task? You say that there is no reason to believe that this would not be the case, but we cannot rule out this risk. How does your group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u5	In fact, you are perfectly in line with the point where I had now arrived. I have one final paragraph on this objection. When I read it, I hope you look at me as satisfied as you do now. It reads as follows: Admittedly, that's really what it says. It's still human work, so influence is possible. And the outcome is uncertain. But there's certainty about that again. The court is multiple, we're talking about heavier crimes here with in-depth consultation in the council chamber. There is appeal and there are landmarks, disrespectfully sometimes called tariffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u6	I agree with that, but we were talking about the hearing, the exercise of the right to speak and how the judge should deal with possible rising emotions. It does not seem likely to Mr Schouwenaar that the judge will not be able to handle this task, but my question was whether there is sufficient certainty that the judge will not be unnecessarily under pressure under those circumstances which we do not yet know from the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u7	The first certainty, although it is all relative certainty, is that a number of court chairs are already offering room for manoeuvre. I am not aware of excesses or incidents that have led to wrong results. It is well known that there are often emotions of witnesses and suspects, often also of the gallery. If we counted it, I think that's where most emotions come from. Even now, there is a occurrence of the victim, but it is a limited action. I believe that the proceedings so far in the courtroom, starting from 2007, from the Dittrich Act, justify the confidence that this emotion that comes with it will not lead to an excess that the judge cannot handle. In this respect, I have great confidence in the Presidents of the multiple chambers in particular. Those are also experienced judges who have been chopping with this axe for a while. The sixth objection concerns the objection that talking about the measure of punishment would not serve the purposes of the criminal proceedings. My group does not share that objection. A statement on the level of punishment provides insight into the circumstances of the crime and the position of the victim. This invites, but does not require, an additional statement of reasons for the judgment. This can help restore the shocked legal order and increase confidence in the correct functioning of criminal law. The seventh and final objection is that the criminal trial will take longer. That's real. But if we think that the trial is going to take too long, then we need to look at all the parts and not just the victim's right to speak. Because each component can contribute to time savings. There is another reason why my group does not agree with the argument of length of time. If the trial is indeed going to take longer and we want to limit the right to speak in order to save time, we will actually say to the victim: "Sacrifice, we have the best interests with you. But we do not have time for you." My group cannot accept that. Finally, and perhaps aboundingly, I would like to say that the VVD thinks this is a good bill. We do not agree with some of the objections. Other objections do indeed involve a risk, but not such a risk that we would reject the proposal. That is why it is good that an evaluation is to be carried out in five years' time. A number of effective criminal justice officers have already shown that they can work well with the unlimited right to speak. We are confident that their precise fellow criminal courts will soon follow suit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. In the current criminal procedure, victims and survivors at the hearing may formally only discuss the consequences of a crime committed. They must not comment on the facts of the crime, the means of proof or the measure of punishment they wish to impose. It is now proposed to remove these still existing limits to the existing right to speak for victims in criminal proceedings. My group has long considered the question of exactly what is the need for the proposed enlargement. After all, the victim's right to speak in the Code of Criminal Procedure in 2005 has recently been extended by law of 12 July 2012 with an extension of the circle of spokespersons. In this legislative process, the proposal to remove the remaining limits of the right to speak has not been taken into account. An evaluation carried out in 2010 showed that victims and relatives are positive about the limited right of speech that we now know and about the level of punishment used. There is also sufficient confidence in the judicial process. Shortly thereafter, the plan underlying this proposal was incorporated into the coalition agreement. In order to properly assess the legislative proposal, it is important to have a clear understanding of the exact extent to which the current situation is problematic. The Government considers that the desire of victims to speak freely at the public hearing on the offence at issue is real and serious. My group, on its own, has no need to do anything about it in advance. However, we believe that careful consideration should be given to whether victims are really helped by this and to what extent effects can occur which are contrary to the principles and systems of our criminal proceedings. In this context, my group can support some of the objectives which are generally linked to the function of the right to speak, such as the provision of information to the courts, the recognition of the victim's position, the possible contribution to the processing of events and the reduction of the risk of secondary victimisation. In this perspective, our question in the written preparation for a response to a publication of the Leiden criminologist Art in Policy and Society of last year. This shows that only a small minority of the victims of a crime are emotionally disturbed for a long time and that there is no empirical evidence of the therapeutic effect of participation in a criminal trial by victims. Partly for this reason, it would not be unwise to make a step in the right direction in launching and implementing further plans to promote the participation of victims in criminal proceedings. In the reply, the Minister tried to make it clear that there is no hard evidence to support the claim that the proposed full right to speak would contribute to a reduction of possible post-traumatic stress complaints from victims. In other words, it is not a problem for the Minister that one or more objectives of the full right of speech may not be achieved. My group considers that to be a rather thin argument. This would mean that, in the eyes of the cabinet, there is only one serious objective behind this proposal: victims who need to use the right to speak must be able to make unlimited use of it. I would like to ask the Minister once again to address this point, in particular the need for a balanced place of the right to speak in criminal proceedings. More specifically, my group has wondered why the government wants to honour the in itself unintelligible desire of victims to speak in the exercise of the right to speak, in particular, about the element of retaliation, apparently without much self-confidence. In order to be able to speak about the penalty, a particular objective of the right of speech, namely the right to directly address the accused, seems to be of particular importance. In practice, however, the judge is already very flexible when victims express themselves in the exercise of their right to speak about the degree of punishment. It is therefore not sufficiently clear to my group until now what an urgent bottleneck in the existing regime is being removed with this section. For this reason, we have called for attention to be paid to the consideration of this particular interest in relation to other relevant and guaranteed interests in criminal proceedings. It seems to my group that the possibility of saying something about the penalty now to be linked to the right to speak can be above average problematic for the defence and for the courts. It is not obvious to assume that victims will be inclined to consider objectively the interests and other relevant facts and circumstances in relation to the suspect in their personal judgement on the extent of the penalty. Does the Minister share this observation, so I like to ask him. We then suspect that, in practice, it will not be easy for victims and survivors in all cases to give their own understandable emotions due to traumatic experiences a good place in a statement to be made. The reassuring signals that I received from the organisations of victims and relatives involved do not simply take away the feeling within my group in advance. In his column in the NRC of 27 March, Folkert Jensma mentioned the experience of criminal lawmakers that more and more emotional and even physical incidents occur when a verdict is made. A possible cause of the decreasing control of emotions in the courtroom is precisely the rising expectation of punishment. In public opinion, the Public Prosecutor's Office is expected to make itself clearer in the role of representative of the affected individual. But what prosecutors communicate as an appropriate requirement in the victim's conversation is apparently not experienced in the context of collective interests such as the rule of law, justice and prevention. There is little to be gained from this by an attorney who may have been taken by the victim. A lower sentence imposed by the judge is therefore not rarely regarded as disrespectful or even an insult. My group fears that the government is too light on what this proposal will ask of judges. There is already quite a lot of pressure on the production process in the legal system, as we call it today. My group is concerned about whether a little extra money can be enough for a few courses. If we take this change, which introduces a new dimension into our criminal proceedings, seriously we, as legislators, must also take the effects on the quality of justice seriously. And that requires a serious extra effort from the government towards the judiciary in terms of money, time and training. Is the Minister aware of this and, if so, how does he take it with him in the Spring Paper, which we have discussed before in this House? I would like to ask the Minister to respond to the concern within my group that the safeguards in our criminal justice system may be inadequate if, on personal grounds, heavy use is made of an disproportionate penalty. The Government does not seem to fear any deterioration of due process, nor does it seem to see any risk of bias towards the defendant as a result of the emotional pressure that may appear from a victim's statement. However, it seems to me that it is extremely important to ensure that, for the sake of the proper functioning of the innocence penalty, the personal experiences of victims are not affected. The question is whether the prescribed victim interview is sufficiently preventive in advance. I would like to ask the Minister if the victim's interview contributes sufficiently to a realistic awareness of the final responsibility of the judge. The Minister, too, does not rule out the possibility that the extended right of speech will affect the final imposition of penalties. What guarantees does the existing standard of instruction for judges not provide at the hearing an opinion on the guilt or innocence of a suspect? And what can ultimately be the consequences for the legitimacy of the independent judge if the media is fed on the possible perception that judges do not care about victims? I like to hear it. The proposed extension of the right to speak, including the penalty, is the main objection to this proposal for my group. My group is well aware that the law, and certainly criminal law, is not infallible. However, the balance of facts and circumstances and the interpretation of the law is a special and responsible task, which has not been assigned to an independent judge for nothing under our rule of law. D66 was once the initiator of the introduction of the right to speak and so far my group has always supported the extension of victim rights. Until recently, there has been a significant imbalance in the system. But this legislative proposal raises the question of the extent to which an inverse imbalance arises if we strengthen criminal law as a means of retaliation and reform with emotions and experiences as an important guiding principle. With great interest, I await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal provides for the extension of the right to speak of victims and their families by abolishing the existing restriction that victims should be allowed to express themselves exclusively about the consequences of the offence on them. The legislative proposal also provides for an extension of the Compensation Fund Violent Crimes for survivors of serious traffic offences and for survivors of victims of the Communal Crime Death by Guilty. The granting of such a benefit is not yet possible because the compensation fund may only pay out for deliberately committed crimes. The PvdA Group welcomes the proposed extension of the compensation fund and has no comments or questions on that part of the proposal. This means that I will focus on the proposed extension of the rights of victims and survivors. In the current Article 51e of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the right to speak of victims and survivors is limited to the consequences of the offence on them. Victims and survivors, for example, should not talk about the penalty they want, nor about the way in which the preliminary investigation was conducted and the evidence collected. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to remove these obstacles in the right to speak. The proposed Article 51e provides that the victim or next of kin may make a statement at the hearing. The current limitation of the right to speak to the consequences of the offence on them will be deleted from the proposal. In existing practice, judges do not usually intervene if the victim or the next of kin does not take account of the degree of punishment or the conduct of the crime. However, a minority of judges insist on strictly maintaining the limitation of the right to speak to the consequences of the offence in the case of victim or next of kin. The aim of the proposed legislative proposal is to eliminate this inequality and to give all the victims and survivors of the offences referred to in Article 51e the same broad right to speak. This extension of the right to speak meets a need, according to the 2010 review of the existing limited right to speak. Some of the victims felt hindered; their satisfaction would have been higher if they could have expressed themselves about, for example, the punishment. Some victims have therefore even waived the right to speak in advance. Victim support The Netherlands also recently informed this Chamber that if one wants to take a victim seriously, it is not appropriate to impose prior restrictions on what he may talk about. The advantage of the legislative proposal is therefore that the victim is taken seriously and that the victim is no longer in uncertainty or that the judge will allow him to speak freely in court. However, the PvdA Group also recognises the possible shadowy side of the proposed unimpeded right to speak...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u10	Mrs Beuving points out that it is applied differently in practice. The advantage of the bill would be that it is clear in advance that it is unlimited for everyone. Wouldn't it be possible to drive the other way around? The current right to speak is limited. Suppose people are better informed about this in advance. Suppose judges are clearly informed that it is a limited right to speak and why that is the case. If you explain that correctly to the people, isn't that just as good a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u11	The current law is so structured that it is a limited right to speak. I'm sure the judges all know about that. However, a large part of the judges choose not to intervene if the victim goes beyond the limits of the right to speak. I don't think it's just that judges don't intervene at the time. Maybe he doesn't do that because it's a big deal for the victim who tells us what happened and what the consequences of the crime have been for him. The judge's gonna go a little further than the law allows, because it's a lot to tell. I'll fill it out, too. It seems to me, however, that it is quite something to take away the victim or to say that he is not allowed to say anything about certain matters. Whatever I noticed is this. I think it was addressed in the 2010 evaluation that I just mentioned. There are victims who say in advance that they do not even want to speak if they are not allowed to speak on certain matters. However, there are also victims who would like to speak. The researchers of the evaluation say that it is striking that people often cross borders, while one thinks that one stays within the borders. So it happens unnoticed. It seems that telling about the consequences of the crime is more important than realizing what is happening. I can very well imagine that judges might still find it the hardest job to guard that border and stop the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u12	I assume that Mrs Beuving is also addressing the other side. If the right to speak becomes unimpeded, this also leads to dilemmas for the criminal court. I'm sure Mrs Beuving will come up with that in her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u13	I had begun to say that sentence. Indeed, as Mrs Strik assumes, the PvdA Group also sees the possible shadow side of the proposed unimpeded right of speech for the victim. That is the risk of innocence being put under pressure. How is the Minister going to ensure that the extension of the victim's right to speak is not at the expense of innocence? How will the Minister ensure that the balance is maintained in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u14	This is a very interesting point. I understand the background to the questions. What intrigues me is exactly what Mrs Beuving is asking the Minister. She's asking him to make sure that the innocence charge is maintained. That is a very important part of this debate. But is that the right question to the good official? How could the Minister ensure that, according to Mrs Beuving?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u15	I'm not gonna answer my own questions. I'd like to hear it from the Minister. If Mr Engels asks me whether I am asking the question to the right official, I would like to have the veil lifted a little bit. What official does Mr Engels think I should ask the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u16	I imagine Mrs Beuving is concerned about the judge's position. That was already mentioned in her previous block, and that is a very important point. Is it not primarily up to the judge to determine whether he can guarantee innocence, given his role as an independent judge? And should the question not be put to us as legislators in the second place? We should not adopt legislation which may make it very difficult for the courts to properly monitor the innocence charge. I was brought to that thought by Mrs Beuving asking the question par excellence of a representative of the executive. That was the background to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u17	As I have already replied to Mrs Strik in response to her interruption, I take into account that the current legislation may give a very difficult mandate to the judge. I can see the indications for this in the fact that most judges do not strictly adhere to the limits of the right to speak when the victim goes over them. I take into account that current legislation may be a very difficult one for the courts. At the same time, I do not want to close my eyes to the question of whether this puts too much pressure on innocence. My group certainly has an eye for that. I don't think the minister is the wrong player in the play. On the contrary, he is a system operator. So I have to ask the Minister how the balance sheet remains in the system. If the Minister also wants to consider the role of the judge at the hearing, I am interested, but I would like to hear from him how he, as a system manager, looks at this question from my group. That is why I concluded this part of my speech with the question of how the Minister will ensure that the balance is maintained in the system. In the preliminary investigation it has been discussed that if a victim makes a statement incriminating the defendant during the exercise of his right to speak, he must take serious account of swearing-in as a witness and then be questioned by the defence. In response to questions from the D66 Group, the Minister was right to point out that a victim who does not comply with the law in force can already be heard as a witness. However, he added: "However, the defence will make a request less quickly in the present circumstances, as there is a risk that the defendant will make a less favourable impression if he goes against the victim. The consequence of a reluctant attitude is the certainty that the victim's statement is not useful as evidence. The defence will therefore have to ask itself, more than at present, what advantages and disadvantages are involved in questioning the victim's statement and the consequences of such a conduct of proceedings." In this passage, the Minister seems to assume that there is a difference in this respect between the current state of affairs and the legislative proposal, a difference which the PvdA Group does not yet see. That is why we ask the Minister to clarify this. In any event, it is clear that the preparation of the victim for the exercise of the right to speak and its possible consequences at the hearing is of great importance. It is also important to ensure that the victim is adequately prepared for the way in which punishment is imposed and punished, so that he has real expectations of it. It must be avoided that the victim's suffering is aggravated by the criminal process, the so-called secondary victimisation. Victim support The Netherlands writes that they themselves, as well as the specialised victim lawyer as well as the Public Prosecutor can provide victims with good information regarding the exercise of the right to speak. We would like to hear from the Minister what the division of roles between these bodies will look like in practice. I would also ask the Minister on whom he bases his response that Victim Aid Netherlands and the Public Prosecutor's Office will be able to cope with the increase in work with current capacity. We await the Minister's answers to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group welcomes the Minister's proposal to extend the victim's right to speak. It is important for victims to be able to express themselves about what the crime has done to them. Victims want to be able to respond to what has emerged at the hearing. The fact that victims are also given room in the courtroom and heard contributes to understanding and recognition over and over again. The SP Group has been working for many years to extend the victim's right to speak and is pleased that this wish is now widely shared. For example, in 2009 MP Gerkens, in a motion supported by the House of Representatives, argued that the victim's right to speak should be extended to representatives of children and disabled victims. This motion was taken over by then Secretary of State Teeven. This was introduced in 2012. In 2012, the SP also issued a note, "The Victim Central," with proposals to strengthen the position of victims and relatives in the criminal proceedings. In the meantime, this is one of the key themes of the Ministry of Security and Justice in the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. The SP Group congratulates the Minister and all other stakeholders on their efforts to strengthen the victim's position. That can be said at some point. However, it could be even better. I will explain this on the basis of five parts. First, the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators; second, the Kooiman motion in the Second Chamber; third, the treatment of the court hearing with closed doors; fourth, the legality and fifth, who protects the judge. The first is the detection and prosecution of the perpetrators. The bill could be better served if more declarations result in the detection and prosecution of offenders. I'll explain. Unfortunately, many declarations do not yet result in the detection and prosecution of perpetrators. In this context, I refer to the well-known report of February 2012 of the General Court of Auditors on performance in the criminal justice chain. That report showed that for inexplicable reasons between 18% and 50% of the 1 million reports of violence and property crime disappeared in the fog. Only around 9% of the notifications were forwarded to the prosecution, so only 5% of the 1 million notifications resulted in a judgment. At that time, the Minister promised to get better. So we would like to know what the state of play is, especially the General Court of Auditors wrote to the House of Representatives in a letter dated 29 October 2015 that more than three years after the publication of the aforementioned report, relatively little progress has been made on the formulation of objectives and an information strategy. In the progress report Reinforcement of performance in the criminal justice chain of December 2015, limited quantified figures came back to this. I would like to hear from the Minister how many percent of the reports were forwarded to the Public Prosecutor in 2015 and how much percent of the reports resulted in a verdict. The second point concerns the motions tabled by Member of Parliament, Mr Kooiman. Two motions of the SP-Second Member of Parliament Kooiman were adopted during the examination of the bill in June 2015. The first motion concerned a request to the Government to enter into a discussion with the Council for the purpose of the case-law on the importance of judges being able to take into account, in their statement of reasons, the statement of reasons. Has this discussion with the Council taken place before the Court of Justice and, if so, what is the outcome of this discussion? The second motion concerned a request to the government to investigate the possibilities of extending the right to speak to TBs and the possibilities of better involving victims and relatives in and informing about TBs sessions. Could the Minister also report on the progress of this investigation? My third point is the treatment of the court hearing with closed doors. Under circumstances, it may be difficult for the victim and the next of kin to have to hear again at the hearing how and what happened. One could think of rape, a murder of a loved one or sexual abuse of a minor victim. The consequences and influences of the public hearing can be extremely damaging, especially for minors. This impact is reinforced by the media attention. Journalists approach victims and relatives before and after the hearing. Upon entering the courtroom there is a TV camera ready to record the rise of the judges and the nomination of the prosecutor. Journalists tweet live what's being discussed. Article 269 of the Code of Criminal Procedure states that it is possible to allow the hearing to take place behind closed doors in the interests of the victim. In particular, the article also mentions a minor, which, according to the text and commentary on the article, refers to the minor victim and a minor witness. In practice, victims' lawyers argue that, if they assist a minor victim or a minor next of kin and invoke this provision, the judges nevertheless reject this request because they state that it is the legislator's intention that the hearings should in principle be public. A rape of a minor, for example by the victim's attorney, was not sufficient grounds for the treatment to take place with closed doors. This was not special enough for the court to deal with the case behind closed doors. At best, the right to speak with closed doors is sometimes allowed, but in practice this is often not allowed. The victim or next of kin shall not be entitled to appeal against that decision of the court. This could be a consideration for victims or next of kin not to go to court. In my opinion, this cannot be the intention of the legislator. For the underage victims and relatives, it would be nice if the Minister wanted to speak on this issue. Then they'll have a handle on the judge. Does the Minister mean by Article 269 of the Code of Criminal Procedure that, if the minor victims or minor relatives of serious violent crimes apply for treatment with closed doors, this should in principle take place, unless there are serious grounds against it? I assume that the Minister agrees with us that the treatment with closed doors is intended to ensure the anonymity of, for example, minor victims of sexual crimes. It is also possible to ensure that the privacy of the victim and the next of kin is protected. Does the Minister share this view? In addition, closing the doors can even benefit justice, because the victim, the next of kin and thus also the suspect can freely express themselves on personal matters without fear, public curiosity or comment. In the above, I specifically referred to the minor victims or minor survivors of serious violent crimes, but this is equally true, of course, for adult victims and survivors of serious violent crimes. Does the Minister mean by Article 269 of the Code of Criminal Procedure that, if the victim or the survivors of serious crimes of violence request treatment with closed doors, that treatment should, in principle, take place in such a way, unless there are serious grounds against it? I'd like a response from the Minister. And by closed doors, I mean that the victims and next of kin, with guidance of course, are present at the criminal hearing. Then I come to point four, the legality. With regard to the legality of the bill, I would like to point out to the Minister the following. The bill makes it possible for the victim to be able to speak about the means of proof in court during the speech. This may give rise to the defendant's attorney or the prosecutor's office still wanting to hear the victim as a witness. However, the victim has already taken note of the criminal record and attended the full session. This may be reason for the defendant's lawyer or the prosecutor to ask the judge before the substantive examination to decide that the victim should remain outside the courtroom. This possibility provides for Article 289 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Minister and Victim Aid Netherlands have already stressed that the importance of victims in attending the courtroom is many times greater than the possibility that they may amend their statement as a result of what they observe there. However, the importance of attending the hearing outweighs the provisions of Article 289 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is not yet regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure and is not regulated in this bill. In my opinion, this leads to an internal contradiction in the Code of Criminal Procedure. How does the Minister intend to solve this tension? Then there is the fifth and final point. Who's gonna stop the judge from getting hit? Mr Engels has just referred to it. The Minister will also have taken note of Jensma's article in the NRC of 26 March, entitled Who will prevent the judge from getting hit? It stated that at a meeting of criminal courts it was discussed that there were more and more emotional incidents in the verdict. People involved couldn't control themselves. As a possible cause one sees the rising expectations of the criminal trial. The impression is that this is partly caused by the Public Prosecutor's Office, which, at the request of politics, acts more as an individual's representative of interests. Officers discuss the case with victims before the hearing and often explain what requirement they consider appropriate. That raises expectations about the outcome. The criminal process thus becomes increasingly a transaction between individuals and much less a social process in which collective interests such as the rule of law, prevention and justice are central. That brings me to the following questions. Does the Minister recognise that there is increasing pressure on the Public Prosecutor to act as a crime fighter and as a victim's representative of interests? How can the Minister's view protect the magisterial role of the Public Prosecutor from the pressure caused by a brutalization and hardening of society? How can the judge be physically and mentally protected against the sometimes disproportionately high expectations of the victim, the media and society? I also agree with Mr Engels's questions concerning the financing of the legislative proposal, especially since the Council has indicated in its case-law that the burden on the judiciary's budget is really out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mrs Wezel began her speech by expressing support for this bill because it is important for the victims to be able to tell about the suffering they have suffered and also to be recognised as such in their victimisation. This is, of course, already the case; for that we have the limited right to speak. At the end of her speech, Mrs Wezel addressed a number of risks. It raises a number of questions, in particular about the pressure on the Public Prosecutor and the expectations which may be too high and the consequences thereof. My group is concerned about the fact that extending the right to speak increases those risks. How does Mrs Wezel view this? Is it really necessary to deal with the suffering and recognition of the extension of the right to speak? How does it see this in relation to the risks of expectations and increased pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u20	There is a social desire that victims want to be able to express themselves. That's what you notice in the courtroom. Otherwise it's like sitting behind a glass door: you can't do anything, but you want to express yourself. That is precisely the aggression of people: they want to express themselves and they cannot. In that sense, I believe it is important that victims can express themselves. But I did ask a number of critical questions. In this way, we need to look closely at how to keep the balance in the criminal trial. What is the purpose of the criminal trial? How do you protect that? What do you want from the criminal trial? That's why I asked the Minister these questions. How's he gonna bail that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u21	I would like to comment on this aggression. Mrs Wezel says that people now feel very limited, despite the fact that they can explain what has been done to them. On what basis does she base the assumption that their sense of aggression would diminish if the right to speak was extended?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u22	In principle, they can only speak out now about what it has done to them. But if they hear lies in court, if something hasn't gone as it's said, if they're put in an evil light or if they're called for something they're having a lot of trouble for... I'm just calling it rape. If a suspect says she provoked it because she was dressed like that, it triggers a reaction. Now we can't lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u23	I have one final question concerning the penalty. The danger lies in the fact that they are going to express their opinion on what they think should be imposed as punishment. How does Mrs Wezel see that in relation to the risk of increasing pressure on the prosecutor and the fact that it also brings with it expectations if we are allowed to express ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u24	It's horrible what they've been through. So there's already a discharge, but it's never enough. For some victims it might be enough and they can place it, but it's perfectly normal that you're disappointed as a victim. You can see it now, and judges will report it. It's the last minute before the suspect goes to jail. There is then something like: I can say something now. Then it comes out: that pent-up sadness, for example when you've lost your child. Then people want to express themselves: goddamn it, you took everything away from me! That's accompanied by a lot of emotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u25	My question was as follows: what does it do with the expectations of victims if they are allowed to plead for a certain measure of punishment and what does it do with the pressure on the prosecutor and the judge? Can Mrs Wezel comment on that for a moment, so let's separate ourselves from the emotions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u26	At least they've been able to express it. I'm just gonna say hang him up! At least they've been able to express what they want to happen. The fact that they can express themselves is very important. In the reactions you notice that of course they know that they are in the top of what... But it's about expressing: do something with my feeling! Judge, understand that what happened to me is bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u27	Finally, I note...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u28	Finally, Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u29	I note that it is more important for the SP Group to express itself than the risks it might entail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u30	That is why I have also asked critical questions such as: how do we keep the balance in the criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u31	Next time, I'd like to go through the chairman, Mrs. Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u32	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are debating today extends the right of victims and their families to speak. This bill also ensures that road-crime relatives can receive compensation through an extension of the compensation fund for survivors of serious traffic offences. This law regulates what victims or their next of kin may say during criminal proceedings. What victims or their next of kin may say during criminal proceedings in accordance with current law is limited, too limited. If this bill is passed, it will be possible for victims or their next of kin to make their comments during the criminal trial without restrictions. This bill further strengthens the victim's or the victim's next of kin during the criminal proceedings. Our group welcomes this. This enlargement will hopefully contribute to the "satisfaction" element for the victims or their families. This enlargement will hopefully also lead to greater awareness among the perpetrators and judges of the damage and suffering caused by a criminal offence. And perhaps this will make the judge more willing to punish, so higher. I'm gonna have to say it all carefully. Although our group is going to vote in favour of this bill, the PVV believes that this proposal does not go far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u33	Perhaps against my better judgment, I'd like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u34	We're gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u35	I'd say do your best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u36	Nice to meet you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u37	Maybe we'll come to something. Mr Markuszower points out that his group does not believe that judges are sufficiently severely punished at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u38	That's how you can read it in our party program.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u39	Yeah, but I don't read that. But I would like to hear from you here in this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u40	Through the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u41	Madam President, I do not read that programme. I would therefore like to ask Mr Markuszower, through you, if he could give a little more explanation of the observation that judges would not punish severely enough and how this bill, if it came into force, could lead to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u42	Thank you for this question. I hope, through the chairman to Mr Engels, that we can live in a country where judges are going to punish higher. To this end, my party has in the past proposed the introduction of minimum penalties. We believe that judges now moderate their punishments. I have already mentioned the second part of the answer to the question in my speech. I hope that judges will listen carefully to the victims and their families and that they will therefore be inclined to show more compassion for the victims than for the perpetrators and thus to punish them higher. As I said before Mr Engels interrupted me, I must say it all carefully, because although my group is going to vote in favour of this bill, the PVV believes that this proposal does not go far enough. The position of the victim and their next of kin is not yet enshrined in the law after the adoption of this bill. The PVV in the Lower House has tried by two motions to repair the defects found. In the first motion, the PVV suggested that suspects should be required to appear in court if the victim or the next of kin avail themselves of their right to speak and wish to have the suspects present. The second motion submitted by the PVV in the Lower House wanted to oblige the judge to take effective account of the contribution of the victim or of the next-of-life. Both motions aim to persuade both the defendant and the judge to listen. Hearing isn't enough. The victim also needs to be taken seriously. The victim doesn't just want to speak. Of course, the victim or the victim's next of kin want something to be done about their contribution to the hearing. Both motions didn't make it in the Lower House. The Minister also advised against the motions. However, he undertook to consult the Council on these two points in its case-law. Can the Minister tell us what the outcome of that consultation with the Council of Ministers was for the case-law? In writing, my group in this Chamber asked the Minister whether he did not find it painful that it is now impossible and impossible for this law to be passed, for example, for a stepmother or a step-sister of a murdered girl to speak in criminal proceedings. This example actually played out recently. I was disappointed by the Minister's reply. He did not consider it appropriate to promote, in an ongoing process, legislative changes extending the circle of speakers and preferred to include this element only in the review of the law. The Minister is prudent. He doesn't want to interfere in an ongoing process. That is a commendable attitude, but it is not in this example that it is. In my view, the current law and legislative proposal are not clear enough about the circle of spokespersons and the importance of legal certainty outweighs the prudentness exercised. Parliamentary clarification here and tightening up of the law are now needed to establish the circle of spokespersons. Does the Minister agree with me that both the current law and the legislative proposal are not clear enough as to who does and who does not belong to the electorate's circle? If so, is the Minister prepared to do something about this ambiguity? Perhaps he could put forward the evaluation of the proposed legislative proposal. Mr President, I will conclude. In the event of an appropriate response, my group intends to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u43	Mr. Chairman. In recent decades, the position of victims in criminal law has been strengthened in many ways. The introduction of the victim's right to speak during the 2005 trial is one of these reinforcements. Since then, victims and relatives have been able to explain in the public hearing the consequences of the crime on them. The introduction of that right of speech was intended to recognise the suffering and thus contribute to the recovery of emotional damage. In addition, the right to speak would inform the judge and would contribute to the prevention of crime. The bill now before us aims to extend this right of speech indefinitely, so that victims and relatives can also express their views on the evidence and on the level of punishment they want. When my group decided whether or not to support this proposal, we considered the need and added value of this enlargement, but also the potential impact of this enlargement on the criminal process as a whole. I will briefly address these aspects. The answer to the question of the need and added value of the proposed enlargement lies partly in the experience of the already existing right to speak. The Scientific Research and Documentation Centre (WODC) concludes from its evaluation that mainly traumatized victims and those who experience not having control over the recovery process would like to have their say in the courtroom; they want to be able to tell the judge and the perpetrator about the suffering they suffered and thus influence the imposition of penalties, we read. Those who exercise their right to speak generally feel more seriously taken as victims and believe that their statement has contributed to their emotional processing. However, the same research also shows that their participation in the right to speak does not reduce post-traumatic stress, fear and anger towards the perpetrator. Those who exercise the right to speak are mainly those with chronic post-traumatic stress. And although they appreciate their right to speak, their complaints do not actually take away. It can be concluded that a large proportion of the victims and survivors do not need the current right to speak and that those who do are satisfied, even though it does not, at least not evidently, contribute to the restoration of emotional damage. In these findings, my group sees no convincing reason to go one step further now. During the evaluation study, some respondents expressed the wish to be able to explain themselves on the penalty level, but does the government not agree with my group that such an extension should really have a function and not just be the outcome of a wish? What could that function be? There is no reason to expect that the extension of the right to speak will contribute more to repairing the emotional damage. The government has not given any arguments for this either. I'm here to talk about the effects. My group does, however, see possible negative effects of an unlimited right of speech, in particular the right to express a demand and the right to speak about the evidence. First of all, there is a risk that a victim or next of kin will be sucked more into the criminal proceedings by allowing him or her to respond to all the elements. Mrs Van Wezel has just made it clear how this can be achieved. The victim or the next of kin can, without being aware of it, make incriminating statements and thus unwittingly play a greater role in the criminal proceedings. Does the Minister consider it undesirable with my group if this is more likely to be the result? How does the Minister assess this risk? How does he intend to reduce this? In addition, a victim or next of kin may be particularly disappointed if the sentence imposed deviates from the desirable punishment he has pronounced. This might increase anger and frustration rather than reduce it. It seems to my group that the bill can provoke an emphasis on retaliation, while victims are unlikely to help deal with their trauma and rebuild their lives. Does anyone really gain from the possibility of processing and healing? It is no longer in other instruments such as reparation law, where in a safe environment and with the help of professional mediation the parties come together and the victim can ask a perpetrator to explain and tell us about the consequences. The unsub is given the opportunity to express personal regret or explain matters. The great advantage is, in addition to a more protected environment, that the confrontation then takes place with an already convicted offender and not with someone who is still only suspect in the trial. Indeed, in the course of the hearing, the facts still have to be proved, and offendership and victimisation still have to be established. Furthermore, the question arises as to how an unlimited right of speech affects the position and behaviour of all parties to proceedings. As a result of the shift in attention towards the victim, the Office has been increasingly playing the role of the victim's representative over the past decade. Mrs Van Wezel pointed out this as well. We do not look at this development without care, because a prosecutor has a majestic position and has to keep several interests in mind. An extension of the right to speak with statements about a measure of punishment desired by the victim could put further pressure on the prosecutor. After all, he or she may be inclined not to go too far with the desire expressed by the victim or to defend himself against the victim if he or she deviates. If it is right, the prosecution's punishment is the outcome of a broader consideration, involving not only retribution aspects, but also special and generic prevention. In addition, the Office should take into account any directives in order to ensure that the criminal requirements in the case of similar offences do not vary too widely. Victims do not have this responsibility and can only be guided by their need for retribution. Can the Minister imagine that their plea for a certain measure of punishment puts the prosecutor in a more difficult position, just to put it in terms of justice? The same pressure can also apply to the criminal court. This may face two pleas for a certain measure of punishment. The victim or the next of kin is no longer entitled to advice; fortunately this idea has not been pursued. But even without formal proceedings, a judge will be inclined to relate in one way or another to the victim's pleas, at least through his justification, but perhaps even further. The insertion of this element at the court hearing could pollute the criminal proceedings, because the investigation is primarily for the purpose of finding the truth. The facts must come to light and the judge must be able to act unbiased. My group is highly committed to the professionalism of judges. Nevertheless, it is conceivable that emotional, comprehensive or far-reaching speeches by victims or relatives affect the atmosphere of the hearing, but perhaps also the attitude of the judge. How does the Minister view that? Finally, it will also affect the defendant's position. The defendant must defend himself not only against what the D.A. says, but also against what the victim claims. Could this not lead to a hardening of the investigation in plenary session? And is that to the benefit of the truth? How does the Minister see that? The Minister writes that the defense will be inclined to restraint, because the victim's statement will not be useful as evidence. But what happens if the judge finds the allegations so important that he wants to hear the victim as a witness? Then a suspect will want to give his own perspective on the case, won't he? Will the Minister evaluate the extensive right to speak on all the possible effects that my group has just mentioned? We wonder whether the right to speak really brings the victim what is best for him. Isn't it much more useful for all parties to better frame the existing right to speak in criminal proceedings, rather than extending it? For example, through better consultation with the victims and more information, they can gain greater understanding of the roles to be distinguished and of the criminal process as a whole. As a result, expectations can become more realistic. The limited right to speak will then continue to make sense for the recognition of the suffering and the rest of the victim's attention may focus on the repair of the emotional damage. In short, my group is reluctant about the proposal to introduce an unlimited right to speak. My group will take the Minister's answers into account in its position. My group supports the extension of the benefits of victims of road traffic offences to the next of kin, but unfortunately we will only be able to vote one vote later. I therefore await the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u44	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall suspend the sitting until 3.45 p.m. This suspension is linked to the meetings of the Security and Justice Committees and Immigration & Asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me thank the Members of your Chamber for their many comments and questions. I would also like to thank them to a particular extent for the broad support I have experienced for this bill. During the break I learned that the groups of the CDA, the VVD, the PvdA and the SP, the PVV will support the bill. Of course, that depends on the treatment, but I am very happy about that. In doing so, we are taking an important step forward in modernising our criminal proceedings, and we are doing justice to the position of victims in this process. I fully realise that I still have a major task this afternoon in relation to the D66 and GroenLinks groups. I am going to try, given the comments made and the questions put, to draw these two groups over the line. I do so in the interests of victims and in the interests of modernising our criminal proceedings, including on this point. Let me say first of all that there appears to be a clear need for victims and relatives to do their whole story at the trial and not to be limited in a way that is not understandable to them. This was reflected in the 2010 evaluation of the discussions conducted during the consultation phase following the legislative proposal and in the opinions of, for example, victims' groups, victims' attorneys and of Victim Support Netherlands. I will get back to the figures from that evaluation, but the vast majority indicate that this is very important for victims. As some of your Members have pointed out, this proposal also contributes to legal unity and equality. It is true that most judges already allow this possibility, in view of this wish. Within the judiciary, it is already recognised that it is important for victims to have the opportunity to air their hearts in this type of serious crime and to release their views and thoughts to the courts in freedom. This means, however, that in one courtroom there is the possibility of saying what you want in full freedom, but that in the other courtroom that freedom does not exist. Mrs Strik is right when she says that we can also opt for the other situation: we restrict it further and frame it further. However, I think we should realise that most judges in our country are not doing this for nothing at the moment. They do that because they realize there's an important need. That is also the conviction with which the government has put forward this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u46	I also asked whether it would not be helpful to organise a setting after the investigation and the court hearing. There is already a clear statement on who the perpetrator and the victim are. This exchange can then take place through, for example, mediation or in a protected setting. Judges can easily refer to that. With good prior information, it might be easier to split up these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u47	I should like to say a few words in advance on the subject of good information. I'm gonna leave that point for now. In fact, Mrs Strik asked in the first period whether mediation could play a role in this. I am very much in favour of this. We have therefore carried out an evaluation of the pilot projects on recovery law. Mediation was part of that. The pilot has shown that there is a need for this, especially in the post-trial phase, but not instead. I am, I have promised to the House of Representatives, looking into whether I can find funding to make those possibilities of mediation possible in the criminal proceedings structurally. I am very positive about that. Legally, you can do it. From my point of view, Article 51 makes it possible to apply all those forms of alternative law. That's why I think we should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u48	I am glad that the Minister is so positive about this and that this may be followed up. But it's not for nothing that judges don't cut off now, they let it go. But if it is organized in this way, so an unlimited right of expression afterwards, would it not be easier for judges to say at the hearing where all this still has to be determined, where truth is at the forefront, "Dear sir or madam, now you can talk about the suffering you have suffered, and the other matters can you put forward in another setting after the trial?' Wouldn't that make it easier for judges to cut off in a friendly way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u49	I can well imagine what Mrs Strik means by this. You would say: then we will not broaden the right to speak, but then we will offer that possibility afterward through mediation. The first problem is that not all victims want to be directly confronted with the perpetrator or the suspect. They choose not to want to do so in the dialogue, although they do want to do so in court. The judge doesn't play any role in mediation. If you want to do your story with the judge, only the criminal trial is available for that. Mediation offers many other benefits, but not this. When, in 1994, Mr Dittrich of D66 took the first step towards a much-needed introduction of the right to speak, he explicitly recognised that it is important for you as a next of kin to be able to make your case to the judge as a victim. That was at the time the underlying idea behind the then bill, and it certainly is in the current bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u50	That is, of course, already in the limited right to speak. But we are now talking about why enlargement would be necessary. But perhaps the Minister will come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u51	That's what I'm getting at right now. I should like to express my thanks to Mrs Van Bijsterveld for the support she has expressed, including for the principle of the right to speak, because the evaluation has shown that it is now even the case that some victims are abandoning the possibility of exercising the right to speak as they currently do, because they feel that it is too limited. They don't think it makes any sense, since they can't say what they want to say, so they don't participate in the right to speak. The government feels that this is an undesirable situation. It therefore proposes to remove any restriction on the right to speak, as Mr Schouwenaar stressed. That means, of course, it's up to the judge. The judge is the one who gives the judgment on how the victim uses that freedom. The judge is and will remain responsible for the order of proceedings within the courtroom, for which he has all the powers to handle it wisely. In practice, this is done very carefully. I will come to the seat that was thrown to a judge, on which Mr Jensma wrote. We note with each other that, even though the victim is expressing himself on the level of punishment, it is always up to the judge, in the end, to arrive at an independent assessment of the level of punishment on the basis of the law. It is therefore up to the judge to show whether or not he has done anything with it, heard the victim. When I started this bill, I thought, wouldn't victims always ask more than what's possible? I asked that question to Victim Aid Netherlands and the D.A. There I was told that, when they have indicated the frameworks within which the judge must operate, victims very often indicate that they wish to pass on that message to the judges within those frameworks. This is without prejudice to the fact that, especially in the case of sex crimes or life crimes, many relatives consider it desirable that at least a TB or a strong prison sentence should be pronounced. But that does not mean, of course, that the judge should be guided by it. The victim has no advisory right, as provided for in the original legislative proposal under consultation and for which no support could be found in practice. This also means that the government agrees with Mr Schouwenaar who believes that the victim should be able to decide for himself what he or she wants to talk about. With all the legislative changes, including these, we run a number of risks. Mrs Beuving and others pointed that out. It may be that, in spite of the information that I believe is necessary, a victim may express a certain degree of disappointment about the level of punishment if that penalty is not imposed by the judge. On the other hand, however, the same victim should not even express that wish in the current situation. He or she has that wish, but is unable to express it, because the law does not allow it. Then it depends on which courtroom you end up in as a victim, but the frustration and disappointment are there anyway, since in the current situation the victim may have clear ideas about this, which he or she would like to express, which in turn is not allowed. The disappointment as a risk in the current legislative proposal is already embedded in the current situation. This means that, taking into account everything, the government has said: then it is more important that we ensure careful preparation and embedding of the opportunity to say something about the measure of punishment, so that we then give the possibility to judge and officer to do something about it, if that is deemed appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u52	I want to talk about the role of the judge and the disappointment of victims and relatives. A number of speakers, not only myself, therefore I dared to come forward and point out that, in practice, judges tend not to cut off an argument that goes in that direction and see how that can be reasonably applied. Doesn't that mean that the problem that we want to address with this bill is much less serious in practice than is now possible from what you have just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u53	I understand very well that Mr Engels is asking that question. It could be said that the current practice is already in breach of the law, so why not continue this practice? But the problem is that the law is being followed by a number of judges, with right, and the victim is being interrupted. In the view of many victims, as Mr Schouwenaar rightly pointed out, this applies censorship which is regarded as offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u54	I'll be more precise. We agree on the latter, but I was concerned about the element of disappointment. Is it true that the degree of disappointment that is taking place from today's practice is so great that we can only deal with this bill? Quite a point is made of the fact that the judges deal with this differently. But isn't it inherent to the case law with its Einzellrechteit that there is never a format in which judges always do exactly the same in all cases? I tend to put those two points into perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u55	I understand that very well. I think that is always good, for the simple reason that judges are people and for that reason give their own meaning and to some extent hear it. However, in this particular case, the legal provision is not followed by a large number of judges because they see that there is a need and they can handle it very wisely. On the other hand, there are judges who say, "Wait a minute, I'd like to do that, but wait until there's a change in the law." Then we must also carefully weigh that up. Therefore, the government's consideration is to change the law. It then becomes clear that there is very great support not only for the Public Prosecutor's Office, the victims and the relatives, but also for the judiciary for releasing that right of speech, because one knows and understands the unnecessary effect of the restriction that is now in place. I would like to say that this is without prejudice to the fact that we can reach that conclusion, because we once took that first step to allow the right to speak. That was after very strong debates at the initiative of the D66 Group. We could never have reached that conclusion if we had never taken those steps in 1994 and 2005. So I think we should also recognise that this is a continuing process and that we now see that this right of speech is a success, but that the obstacle we created at the time is no longer necessary. I would be very grateful if the D66 Group would reconsider that idea of modernisation at the end of this debate when it comes to assessing how the vote is cast. In this context, Mr Engels asked whether the government believes that the victim's right of speech and punitive thinking could give rise to the risk of influence. I have to say, I appreciate that risk differently. This is also reflected in the current practice in which the right to speak is already widely granted by judges. I am not aware that there would be any abuses in that area. I hope that in those cases where he is guessed, for example, in the judgment or in the explanatory statement, when the victim is present, the judge will say something about how he weighed that thought of the victim. In the House of Representatives, it was asked whether this should not give rise to an obligation to state reasons. The government is not in favour of that, because you then require the judge to do much more than they intend to do. I can imagine you say as a judge: I do need to explain to the victim why the penalty is different than the victim might have thought. That is certainly the issue in the so-called punishment interview that the prosecutor conducts with victims in this kind of serious cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u56	It's very interesting what the Minister is saying now. It's also content. Here's what I was wondering. If the judge is forced to follow the Minister's advice and explicitly takes into account in the judgment or the reasoning of a judgment what was said in the hearing because of the right to speak, is there not the risk that a victim, who already has a greater role in the trial, will be more or less actually turned into a party? I cannot imagine that a statement of reasons in a sentence and judgment can be different from that based on the law, the facts and the circumstances. That is not so much a question of the experience or feeling of a victim or of a survivor, no matter how right and understandable. Are we not going to cross a line that we, as legislators, should not, in fact, be subject to criminal penalties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u57	I understand very well that Mr Engels is asking that question. If there were any judges saying that the Minister forced them to do so, then I fully agree with him. The last thing I want to do is to impose this pressure on the judges, because, throughout the legislative proposal, I assume that the professionalism of the Dutch case law is undisputed and that the independent and professional position of the judge is also undisputed. That is why I also said to those Members in the House of Representatives who wanted to have an obligation to state reasons that this is not the case. There can and should be no compulsion, but in human relations you might well say as a judge: I will bring that up anyway, which could very well help with the acceptance of the verdict. It's possible. It may also have no effect. But I really think that freedom should stay with the judge. There, for example, in continuing training, which will be offered in the framework of this legislative proposal and also consists of deepening the insights of judges in the fields of psychology, logic and science. How do you handle that wisely? Then any judge can make his own choice. I come to the question raised by the SP Group, the VVD Group and the D66 Group, among others, about the risk of escalation in the courtroom. We saw a very poignant example of this not too long ago. There was a situation in which a young child was killed by someone who had drunk far too much and then not for murder or manslaughter, but was sentenced to death by guilt, and then, in the family's opinion, to a relatively low sentence, namely community service. One of the family members threw a chair through the courtroom. This is also the example cited by Mr Jensma and put forward by a number of Members here. In this case, it is very poignant to see exactly why this bill is made up of two parts. The Damage Fund Violent Crimes is also open to these types of cases. These are cases where, on a legal basis, no murder or manslaughter can be accepted, for the simple reason that the person who gets drunk behind the wheel does not intend to kill a specific person. That's necessary for manslaughter or murder. You must have the intent to kill or kill that person. But of course, for society, but certainly for a next of kin, it is perceived as a similar crime. This means that, in this particular situation, not so much the right to speak was at issue, but the limitations that the law imposes on the courts. This puts great demands on the explanation that Victims help and the Public Prosecutor's Office can give in preparing victims in this area. But, of course, we will never be able to eliminate that entirely, because we cannot solve this situation, for the simple reason that murder and manslaughter can never be dealt with if there was no intent to put the victim concerned to death. This is without prejudice to the fact that I am very pleased with the support from your Chamber for the second part of this bill, that we are opening up the Damage Fund Violent Crimes for exactly the same reasons: from the point of view of the victims, there is little difference between the consequences of the death of someone due to a serious traffic accident under those very nasty circumstances and the deliberate death of someone. For this reason, the government has no concern that there should be any fear of escalation in the courtroom other than at present and that it is precisely here that the information of Victim Aid Netherlands and the Public Prosecutor's Office can mitigate the risks. It was also asked whether the court had sufficient instruments to monitor the order at the hearing. The government is convinced of that. The judge has not only the usual verbal possibilities, but also the presence of the strong arm within the courtroom to respond adequately. I think that system is positive in itself. Mr Engels asked whether we could not continue with the current practice. I have said that after 11 years of experience, we have come to the conclusion that we must make a change to that. Not only because victims want it, but also because the practice requires it, the Public Prosecutor sees no objections, the victims' lawyers point out how important it is and the evaluation study has shown it. Maybe it would be good if I said something about that at this point. Mrs Strik asked whether this need really exists among victims. The evaluation carried out by INTERVICT shows that 59% of the entitled victims would like to speak, but that this increases to 84% if they are allowed to speak freely. This means that a very large number of people do not have the right to speak because they cannot say what they want and do not do it for that reason. I think we should keep this in mind when assessing this bill. The effect of the law as it is today is that people are kept from speaking, while we all consider it important that people, even in the current situation, can speak. But that's not the effect. The effect of the law is that a large group of people say: I don't want to speak under those circumstances, because I think I should be able to tell the judge and the officer more in criminal proceedings than I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u58	Of course, that's always difficult to investigate. Of course, many people have not been asked why they do not now use the right to speak. It also appears to be a specific group of victims who do exercise the right to speak. I called them the more traumatized victims. I understand that half of them have said that they would prefer it wider. The question is, of course, whether they would still say that if they were then asked through and if they had been asked whether they would still be if they could be questioned at the hearing. The question is whether people are aware of the possible consequences at the time they say that. They haven't been investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u59	This has not been investigated in itself, because when the evaluation took place in 2010 this question was not yet before. I propose that we do so in the evaluation we will carry out after five years. Mr Schouwenaar and Mrs Beuving have already spoken about this. I think this is precisely one of the points that we should take into account in this evaluation. What are the effects? Has the concern we have shared here been realized in five years' time or not? Or are there perhaps quite different effects that we cannot overlook? I personally think it is very important that victims in victim surveys after the criminal trial explicitly state that they give the fact that they are allowed to speak ample enough and that they consider, above all, the resulting recognition for victimisation, the so-called victim voice, but also the feeling that they are being taken seriously. This is precisely where people object to the current situation. They say that I cannot and cannot say what I want to say, and that is why I am not taken seriously. Mr Schouwenaar referred to the word 'censorship'. I have also heard that word very often among the fellow lottery groups I have visited.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u60	I have read the evaluation in such a way that people who exercise the right to speak are already satisfied with the fact that it recognises that they are victims and that it is therefore already having a positive effect. I would not simply link that to the desire to expand it. It already has a certain function.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u61	That's what I meant to say. The people who use it already indicate that they are satisfied, but that is without prejudice to the fact that there is a significant number of people who do not use it because of the existing restrictions. Then, of course, there is the justified question of whether we know what effects the exercise of the right to speak could have psychomedically or medically-therapeutically. What about now and what about in the future? As Mr Engels and Mrs Strik said, little research has been done on this. We do know that Victim Support The Netherlands, the fellow-fate organisations and the victims' lawyers who gain experience with this in their daily practice all indicate that it can be expected to have a positive effect. We also know that the right to speak has no significant influence on the emergence or continuation of post-traumatic stress complaints. So the good news is that it doesn't work the other way either, but it would be good if we could say a little more about that in the future evaluation. I think we should try to clarify this, however difficult it may be, also methodologically. Mr Kunst has expressed his concerns on a number of points, but he also says that he recognises that the ability to exercise the right to speak contributes to the feeling of recognition among the victims. They need to recognise the fact that they are victims. I therefore believe that there should no longer be any procedural obstacles in this respect. In fact, I have already dealt with the issue of secondary victimisation. Disappointment is always a possibility, but in the current system this disappointment is already contained because people are not allowed to do what they would like to do. At the same time, the right of free speech offers the judge the opportunity, if he is guessed to be able to do something about this possible disappointment, because he simply knows whether a victim has expressed himself or what the expectations were. As I have already said, it is important that the preparation is carried out carefully. Victim support The Netherlands, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary are prepared to do so. The same applies, in particular, to the victim's lawyer. A number of Members raised the question of whether there is still a need for financial space. The good news is that this financial area of justice was already needed. After all, a legislative proposal can only be dealt with if there is coverage for any additional costs. They are expected to appear before the Council before the Court of Justice and are therefore taken into account in the negotiations currently under way on the budgets for the coming years. At the same time, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office and Victim Aid indicate that they are already talking to victims and that there is no need for additional funding on this additional subject and on this additional information. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office is currently preparing a new digital victim window. It allows people who need it and who have access to it to be informed in a very interactive way about the possible adverse effects of free speech. By the way, that is no different than it is now, because even now there is the possibility of being heard when you use the opportunity offered by the judge to speak freely and if you go further into that by, for example, saying something about the facts, denying what a suspect has said or by introducing new facts. I believe that Mrs Van Bijsterveld pointed that out too. In any case, it is very important that the victim's interview is designed in such a way that the victim knows what awaits him. This also means that all the parties I have just mentioned will have to play their own role. I taste a great willingness on their part to do the same. Like the spokesperson of D66, Mrs Beuving asked about the innocence charge. I see her at the interrupting microphone, but maybe she doesn't want to ask me about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u62	I asked about the division of roles between these organisations. I assume that all these organisations are doing their job so well and conscientiously that it will be more likely that the victim or the next of kin will be informed. However, I would like to hear how it is prevented, for example, from the prosecution thinking that there has been talk with Victim Help Netherlands and that that organisation thinks that it is the other way around. How's that? Who's what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u63	That is a good question from Mrs Beuving. Victim support The Netherlands basically does the psychosocial and legal assistance in light cases, but also has a case manager who is available for heavy cases. The family detectives explain how the police trial is going on. The specialised victims' lawyers provide legal assistance in serious cases, but are generally also of great importance in informing about what will take place at the hearing. It is also their job to provide ample advice and information to the victim. The state's attorney's office provides information on the victim's rights. The so-called victim interview also discusses the possible measure of punishment and the consideration that the officer will make between the act on the one hand and the possibility of punishment on the other. This is, of course, extremely important because victims often have great need and great expectations for it. It is also very important for the Public Prosecutor's Office to state that his sentence requirement will not necessarily be taken one-on-one by the judge. It is, of course, important to show victims that the judge has an independent position and makes a completely independent assessment. That is the case in the current criminal proceedings, it has always been and will always be. I think it is a good thing that all three bodies, including, where appropriate, the case manager in serious cases, also indicate that there are risks if victims want to exercise the right to speak in full, especially if something is said about the facts. That's how the roles are divided. Mrs. Beuving asked about the innocence charge. I am convinced that the possibility for a victim to express his or her opinion freely in court does not affect the objective consideration of the facts by the judge, who has, of course, heard the views of the defendant and the prosecutor. The innocence charge continues to apply fully to the court in relation to the defendant. Of course, the innocence charge does not apply to the victim. With him, there's no doubt about the defendant's guilt. Perhaps it is good to emphasise that, unfortunately, victims and suspects know each other very well in many cases. Many crimes take place in a family context and between acquaintances or there is still a clear reminder and therefore also a clear recognition of the victim in the crime. Unfortunately, for many victims, the question is whether this is the culprit is therefore irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u64	That may be true, but the purpose of the investigation at the hearing is still the truth. The purpose is to investigate clearly and determine whether the facts can be proven and whether the defendant is guilty. That is the situation we must take as our starting point. It therefore also has an impact on the hearings, where the question remains whether the suspect is actually the culprit. Perhaps the Minister could comment on the potential risks of putting the victim's position forward, which could also interfere in the discussion between the parties to proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u65	It is a good thing that Mrs Strik raises this point, because that is of course the reason why, for the purposes of this legislative proposal, there has been extensive consideration of the possible division of the criminal proceedings, between the investigation into the truth and the finding of the offender, and then the discussion about the extent of the penalty. In addition, a role for the victim might be better. We've had extensive scientific research on that. It came out that there was no need for this in this area, precisely because of the fact that judges indicated that they didn't see any added value in it, because they didn't see the whole conflict. I think that we should and will always continue to rely on innocence. This is one of the cores and pillars of our rule of law, and thus of our criminal proceedings. I am not concerned at this point that this would be changed by the change that we are now making, particularly since it has been implemented in a number of courtrooms for years. People already allow the victim to express himself freely because of his interest. That's counter-empty, I'll just say. Mrs Beuving quoted from the explanatory statement. I thought it was very shrewd of her. She said that her group is not yet convinced that I am right, if I say that the legislative proposal does change something about the role of the defence and the possible decision to ask questions to the victim. I have stated in the explanatory statement that the defence is now usually reluctant to question the victim because the victim's statement cannot contribute to the evidence. That can be different if there is a legitimate discussion with the defense about the facts. If, in the present situation, the victim speaks of the facts, he is strictly excluded from the legal possibilities and cannot and does not have to be taken into account by the judge. If the victim fails to do so after the extension of the right to speak, the defence may have the need to ask questions about it, because, strictly speaking, the judge might take that into account in his final judgment. I also think that this is very important. On the one hand, it does mean that the victim must be properly informed. Many victims are also witnesses in criminal proceedings, not necessarily in court, but if the judge considers it necessary and asks the defence or the officer to do so, victims are already being heard at the hearing. That's always possible. But it is possible that, in the new situation, the judge might take more account of what the victim says and that might lead to another... I wanted to mention that in that explanatory statement. I don't see that as an objection, but as something we need to prepare the victim for. Therefore, in the conversation between Victim Aid Netherlands, the Public Prosecutor and possibly the Victim Attorney, it is of great importance that it is indicated here that it may have consequences that some victims may not want. Other victims probably want that very much if they feel that the facts as they perceive them are not sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u66	Actually, I'd just like to invite the Minister to say a sentence he swallowed a little bit. It's really hard to get that back. The Minister said that under this bill, the judges might listen a little more to the victim and that that would lead to.... Then the rest of that sentence fell away. I had the impression that the Minister wanted to say something about where that leads on the defence side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u67	In my view, I said that since the right to speak is now limited to the consequences for the victim only, anything more is said there, which is true practice, is, in principle, out of the order of the criminal proceedings. At the time when the victim has the freedom to speak, it is not excluded that if the victim fails to take account of the facts or, for example, disputes as to what has been said in court or what would appear in the file, the judge can take this into account because it is not outside the scope of criminal proceedings. This could mean that the defense now, unlike in the current system, might be more likely to ask the victim to declare it a witness. That was the debate I thought Mrs Beuving wanted to have with me. Some victims will very much like that, others will certainly not want that. I think it is very important that this consideration can be made by the victim himself on the basis of good, objective information by the three parties whose roles Mrs Beuving has just asked me about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u68	Do I now take the answer to Mrs Beuving that the Minister thinks that it is inherent to this bill, which, as a victim or next of kin, chooses to use the right to speak, and in particular to express itself about the measure of punishment, is more or less forced on the judge to take account of what has been said on that point? Then I think we are going to talk about a very important border here. Then it is actually time to clarify whether it really is, because then I think that the legislative proposal will be in a very strange light. I thought I had tasted that the judge couldn't get past it, when a victim or a next of kin says something very emphatically about the measure of punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u69	Fortunately, that's exactly what I didn't say. As I said in Mr Engels' previous question on this point, the independence of the judge is without doubt. The court itself determines, on the basis of the law and case law, what it finds appropriate punishment in criminal proceedings and whether a penalty can be imposed at all. Let us first say that the questions of Article 348 and Article 350 of the Code of Criminal Procedure must first be settled in the correct order. An opinion, request or thought about the penalty will therefore not in any way lead to any coercion, as Mr Engels has now asked me twice. However, what is at stake is what Mrs Beuving is saying: what about when the victim in the new system is going to say something about the facts of the crime? Is it true that this could possibly be regarded by the court as a legally relevant fact? That was the discussion that Mrs Beuving and I had. If that is the case, it may also be that the defense would rather ask for the victim to be heard under oath. I said it could be done at the time. I don't think the odds are so great, but it's possible. When it happens, it is of particular importance that information is good, so that the victims can take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u70	Does the Minister mean that account is taken of what the victim as a witness tells about the facts, or also during the right to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u71	The victim may, in the role of the victim, not being a witness, say something about the facts of which the defense may then say: if the person concerned says this and perseveres in it, then I think he should also be heard as a witness. I think that is, in many cases, justified, if it is new, but it is different from what has been said earlier whether there is another light on it. It's possible. We have fully faced that possibility in this bill. We have also indicated that information from the parties concerned is of great importance in this respect, because this is something you must know as a victim. It is not new, by the way, because it is possible in the current situation. If, in the current situation, a victim takes the right to speak wider than is permitted by law, it can lead to the same effect. So it's no different than it was, but it can be done in all cases. We need to prepare the victims very carefully for that. I think we should include this point in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u72	So far, I believe that what has been said during the right to speak is not a means of proof. It's gonna stay that way. The judge doesn't have to take it into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u73	That's right, but since the right to speak is now available, the defense may at some point want to hear the victim as a witness. It may need to do so if something is said, for example, which is different from what was the case before it or in the case of a new fact in the file that may be exculpatory for the suspect. I think it's a good thing we're pointing that out to the victims. If I have understood her correctly, Mrs Wezel asked whether it is not a good idea that we should reverse the main rule of our current criminal proceedings when it comes to minor victims or minor witnesses, so that such hearings should take place behind closed doors, unless there is a serious reason not to. I find that thought very sympathetic. This stems from the desire of the SP Group to protect a minor victim or a minor witness of a serious crime against public access, for example because of their deep emotions. On the one hand, we must take into account the importance of the victim, but on the other hand, there is the very important starting point that all hearings are public. They are public because we believe that society should be able to judge fully what is happening in justice. That's why we chose to put that in court. We have said that the judge is the determining factor in deciding on a request from, for example, the victim's defence or attorney, which is possible in both cases to allow the case to take place behind closed doors. I believe that the principle of public access to justice is so important that I, as a minister, can live with the fact that we keep that competence in court and that we do not come to a reversal of the existing regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u74	The judge correctly says: the legislator tells me it is public, so I do not have to take into account the article in the Code of Criminal Procedure. So the judge's just pointing at you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u75	We agree, however, that there is an article which states that in specific cases the judge decides on the basis of public access to the court hearing. There is almost a whole philosophy behind how we deal with public hearings in our open society. We've really thought about that. We have said that this is a very important starting point, but also that we realise that there are situations in which closed doors should be possible. We have placed the power to decide to do so before a court of law. That is not the interpretation Mrs Wezel gives it. I really think that a judge should always weigh that in full care and in full measure. Mrs Wezel said that the victim has the right to attend the hearing and a witness has to wait outside the Chamber. In that context, she asked what would happen if a victim became a witness at any time. The right to the presence of the victim then prevails over the importance of an uninhibited testimony. Otherwise, we would run the risk that if a lawyer says that the victim may be a witness, the victim could actually be denied access to the courtroom. This seems to me very unwise, also given the importance that we all attach to the fact that victims should always be able to attend the legal process in the context of public access. The spokesperson of the PVV Group asked about the appearance of suspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u76	The Minister states that he does not consider it desirable for the witness or the victim to be expelled from the courtroom. However, the article in the Code of Criminal Procedure indicates that when the officer or suspect so requests, the potential witness must leave the Chamber. Is the Minister going to change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u77	There's that article. The main rule, however, is that the victim is present at the hearing. It may be established, for example, as a result of the victim's statement, that the victim is a witness. If the defense asks in advance to hear the victim as a witness, then of course the rule is that the witness is not present. Nevertheless, in principle, the main rule is that the victim always has the right to attend the hearing. By the way, a lot of victims do not want that, but a lot of victims think that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u78	The main rule in criminal proceedings is that anyone who is a potential witness should remain outside the courtroom. Which rule is more stringent now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u79	As I have just said, the main rule is that the victim is present at the hearing as part of the public hearing. I think that is a more important rule than that the witness should stay outside, but it is different when it is already established that the victim will be heard as a witness. Then someone like that is a witness. Then he's gonna have to be heard first, and then he's gonna be able to sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u80	Why doesn't the Minister lay this down in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u81	That principle is already laid down in the law. We have one starting point and we have the other. As Mrs Van Wezel knows, not many witnesses are heard at the hearing. We have a system in which all the evidence is collected before the hearing begins. In a situation where the judge considers it necessary for another witness to be heard, the main rule applies, even if it is a victim. The situation in which the victim makes use of his or her right to speak, and where appropriate the need to hear the victim as a witness, will only become apparent when the situation takes place at the hearing. The PVV Group asked about the defendant's mandatory presence at the hearing and the ruling. I have also discussed this in detail with the PVV Group in the House of Representatives. The Public Prosecutor has adapted the conduct and policy in this regard in response to the debates with the PVV group. In the discussions with victims and relatives, the Public Prosecutor shall pay attention to the desirability of the appearance of the suspect at the hearing, shall also explain the possibilities and possibilities and shall ask for the specific wishes of the victim or the next of kin with regard to the obligation to appear as a suspect. That is also because we have found that in a number of cases many victims and relatives prefer not to have the suspect present at the hearing, because then they will be confronted with the person concerned again. That hinders them in making their statements. It is precisely because not everyone wants it that we have never wanted to make it an obligation. The judge can decide. In practice, the judge also does so in a number of cases. The D.A. can request it. It is therefore important for the prosecution to touch this point in contact with the victim and then to ask the judge to have the defendant present, if desired. Whether the presence in the judgment can also be determined by the judge is unclear, let me say some doubt. I am prepared to consider whether there is a need for additional jurisdiction from the courts in this regard. If that is the case, we can include it in the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The PVV Group has also asked for the extension of the right to speak to the step family. It is true that there have been certain developments in family law. More and more forms of family and family relations are emerging. We also discussed it in the House of Representatives. At that time it was stated that this is an issue that needs to be carefully considered, because it is not possible to assess exactly what its impact would be. Step family, for example, is not a legal concept. Nor is it easy to explain who is covered by the law. In this connection, I also note that I have understood in conversations with the prosecution that sometimes people apply for, for example, the right to speak, which the prosecutor says is not a victim at all. Or the victim says about these people: they're not victims, they're not with me at all, I don't want that. Here too, we must be very careful about this. That is why I promised the PVV Group that I would include this issue in the evaluation of the current right to speak. This will be discussed in 2017. Mrs Van Wezel asked about Mrs Kooiman's motions. I've carried it out, I can report her to my reassurance. The caselaw has indicated that judges should keep the freedom to do and leave what they think they should and should do. They're very attached to that. The independent position of the judges has been underlined in this respect. In particular, it is the role of the public prosecutor to conduct the interviews with the victims that I referred to earlier. Mrs Kooiman's second motion dealt with the progress of the inquiry into the right to speak at TBs sessions. The question of the SP group in the Lower House was whether the victim should not be able to speak if there are sessions where, for example, it is decided whether or not to extend the TBs. I have indicated that I will investigate that. That investigation is in the final stage. There have been discussions with experts and experience experts. The research is needed to gain sufficient insight into the needs of victims and survivors in this respect. I hope to complete that investigation in May. I will then inform the Chambers. I have already dealt with the costs of justice. I have also indicated why I expect that no additional costs will be incurred when it comes to victim support and the prosecution. Mrs Van Wezel asked about progress in improving the performance of the criminal justice chain. The Chamber is informed twice a year about the progress of the VPS programme. This includes the 2015 Criminal Chain Monitor. It includes how many criminal offences the police record and how much the chain enters. I would also remind the Chamber of the recently released Safety Monitor, which also looks at the criminal justice chain from the other side. This raises the question of how victims perceive victimisation. I'd like to recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u82	Can the Minister indicate whether there has been any improvement? Are there any more cases handed down to the D.A.'s office that end with a verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u83	I have the impression that there is an improvement, but there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u84	Are we going to see that in the figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u85	I have that expectation. Mrs Strik asked about the role of retaliation and whether there was a change in emphasis due to the right to speak. Perhaps that question is also asked as a result of the reason given by Prof. Ten Voorde. He discussed the consequences of the victim's communications by the judge. He discusses these consequences from the point of view of the victim and the purposes that may or should be involved in the imposition of penalties. In particular, he referred to the role of retaliation. Mr Ten Voorde rightly argues that retaliation should not, I think, be the decisive factor for Mrs Strik's desire to hear from me from the subjective perspective of the victim about the suffering suffered in the imposition of penalties. It can certainly play a role in determining the seriousness of the fact. In this respect, as a judge and officer, you should take into account the impact of the fact on the victim or possible survivors, but the seriousness of the fact is expressed in abstracto first by the criminalisation by formal law. That is the expression of the democratically legitimized disapproval of behaviour. The finding that the consequences of a criminal offence have hit a victim extra hard cannot, by definition, lead to the imposition of a higher penalty. Retribution must be done not only from the point of view of the victim, but also from the point of view of society's interests. Retribution must also always take account of equality and proportionality. My conclusion is therefore that I agree with the opinion of this new professor in general. It fits in with the views of former Secretary of State Teeven, but also those of my predecessor Hirsch Ballin and Mr Dittrich. The victim's explanation may play a role in assessing the seriousness of the offence and in the penalty assessment, but it does not have a decisive role in it. I have answered all the questions with this, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u86	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Schouwenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u87	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to thank the Minister for his comments and statements in the first term. I would like to make a few brief comments on what has passed. I'll start with the need for this law. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance rightly points out that an evaluation has been carried out which highlighted a group of satisfied victims. However, I would point out that there was also a group of dissatisfied victims, as well as a group of people who do not want to use the right to speak, because they do not have a say in it in view of the limitations. We must also take these groups seriously. That gives us the key to saying: this is what we must do. Of course, we will have to evaluate it in five years' time to see how it goes. Speaking of the victims, I have heard here and there words such as "aggression," "frustration" and "violence." A chair has also come into use. I believe that was the case in Den Bosch. I would point out, however, that this incident with the chair took place under the current regime. So I don't think that has a direct causal link to the right to speak. At best, it indicates that the current regime can be improved. One of the ways to do this is to remove the boundaries of the right to speak. There are other roads. I would like to mention the example of penalties in road traffic legislation, on the one hand, and penalties in community criminal law, on the other. That is one of the main sources of disappointment when it comes to punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u88	That chair must be seen in connection with the judgment of a judge who was found to be inadequate. I don't think that's related to the limited right to speak. I cannot imagine that, if the right to speak is extended and someone is allowed to talk about the measure of punishment, no more seats can be thrown. In fact, could Mr Schouwenaar not imagine that the disappointment, if anyone had been allowed to speak about the measure of punishment, might perhaps be even more alarming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u89	We disagree on that. Of course, I can imagine anything, but the question is what you think is most likely. I could imagine that if there had been a full right to speak, quod nun, which would have led to a more detailed response to what has been said or to a more detailed explanation of the difference in sentence. I think a relative threw a next of kin with that chair. The victims died. I believe it was two children in Brabant and a driver who had far too much to drink. I mentioned the example of the difference in the criminal treatment of violence offences in traffic and communal violence offences. This sometimes leads to great disappointment, because the premise there is different and therefore also the penalty ceilings differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u90	Do I understand from this answer that Mr Schouwenaar considers it desirable or predictable that a criminal court judge should comment on the proposed measure of punishment? I understood from the Minister that that is not the intention, at least not the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u91	There is no obligation to state reasons, but I can imagine that, when the judge observes that a point is considered important and that there are no obstacles, his reasoning takes account of possibly different views as to the degree of punishment, or gives additional reasons why the penalty is the way it is. In general, the justification of criminal sentences is a matter of constant attention. There are a lot of currents in which it is said that there may be a little more motivation. I can imagine that in such situations too, it is a motive to write down something more than sometimes happens now. It can contribute, it's one of the ways to prevent this kind of outbursts. I would add that the defendant can also throw a chair. This is also seriously taken into account by the presence of parquet guards. I believe that suspects get a plastic cup instead of a glass. It does not lead to the exclusion of the defendant from the pre-trial courtroom. In the case of the victim, we do not therefore have to translate it into pre-emptive restrictions. My third point concerns the disappointment. I think there is one in any case and that we do not solve it by silence or by imposing silence. No, we'll solve them by talking. I refer to the right to speak, but also to the information of the Public Prosecutor's Office and bodies as a Victim's Aid Netherlands. I also refer to the judgment of the court, in which the court can express itself about it. The beauty of this bill is that the victim himself is the one who decides to what extent he wants to take advantage of the opportunity offered, including the disappointments that this may bring. Finally, the right of recovery. If I do, it is largely voluntary, both from the victim's side and from the defendant's side. It doesn't always work either. I have not found any figures on the successes in this area. It leads me to the preliminary conclusion that it may be one of the ways of finding a solution, but that it cannot serve as an exclusive alternative to the right to speak. I have already said that I will propose to my group that we vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u92	Madam President. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. Well, he's been a good man, if I may put it that way. I would like to say immediately that I do not have the impression that this also applies to the Minister: we have exchanged many new points of view. Then we will finally come to the question of weighting. For my group, the essence of this bill is the balance of criminal proceedings. The autonomous, magisterial role and position of the Public Prosecutor's Office are important, but above all an independent role and position of the judge. This bill has a number of problematic aspects for my group. It is mainly about the right to speak about the measure of punishment. That part of the right to speak could potentially upset the balance sheet. At least I'm not comfortable with it myself. In doing so, you are gradually, perhaps formally not yet but in fact, moving the victim and next of kin further into the criminal proceedings. I have taken good note of a number of comments which show that the emphasis on the aspect of retaliation is given an extra emphasis. I have heard this not so much from the Minister but from a number of colleagues. I think that is a worrying point. What I also find worrying is that there does not seem to be any formal but factual pressure on the duty of the judge to state reasons. It seems difficult for a judge to avoid that influence by victims and next of kin. I will discuss with my group what will be our opinion on the legislative proposal next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u93	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the Minister for his careful answers to our questions. As far as my group is concerned, it is very important that under current law, in many cases, but not in all cases, the judge allows a broad right to speak to victims and relatives, and that this has not led to problematic situations in court. Following our questions on the possible pressure on the innocence charge, the Minister pointed out that there were no indications of this. In today's practice, judges often allow a broad right to speak, at least they do not prevent it. That is indeed a reasonable conclusion. As I said in my first term, the benefit of the legislative proposal is that the victim is taken seriously and that victims and relatives no longer need to be in doubt as to whether the judge will allow them to speak freely in court. In short, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his comprehensive reply. However, I do not know whether I can convince my group. I will, of course, pass on the answer, but I will draw my own conclusions. If we look at the purpose of the bill, I'd like to take a look back at the purpose of the limited right to speak. That was clearly intended to give people the opportunity to tell them about their suffering. The evaluation shows that this objective has been achieved. It has a positive effect. People feel more recognized in the victimization. I think this is very positive. The goal of repairing emotional damage and reducing anger and aggression has not been achieved. My group strongly doubts whether it will succeed in extending the right to speak. It does not therefore seem to us that we should pursue this objective. There is another objective. It is stated that the right to speak helps to inform the judge. There's no profit in that either. This is precisely about the impact of the crime, as the Minister clearly pointed out. It is therefore a question of what suffering the crime has caused: what has it done with the victim? It is not for the courts to be informed of the measure of punishment which is desirable. This is more about another objective, namely the need for victims to be allowed to express their views on the level of punishment. Only this need is a difficult basis for a legislative change. That could still be true if it does not have any other consequences for a proper criminal procedure. At the moment, that is balanced. I think it requires a more serious balancing of interests than it is now saying that there is a need and that it does not harm the current process. I am still afraid that the pressure on the process parties is increasing. The emotions and accusations will play a greater role at the hearing, while it should contribute to an investigation into the truth finding. The question is whether it makes such a constructive contribution to that research. To Mr Schouwenaar and Mr Markuszower you already notice that there is a pressure on the criminal justice system. Now the expectation is that he will do something with the plea for a certain measure of punishment; he has to answer the reasons why perhaps a different punishment has been chosen. Mr Markuszower says that he simply hopes that the judge will punish more and therefore take more account of the victim's wishes. In short, the doubts remain with us. As far as the victim is concerned, too, the question is whether this is the right way forward. Is it better for the victim or should we think more about better guidance, more mediation, so that we can talk about feelings freely, but in a protected environment? We will exchange this in the group and we will follow the balance in the vote next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u95	We have now arrived at the Minister's second term. I notice he doesn't need suspension, so we're going straight ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to those Members who shared their views with me and with the Chamber in the second term. You will understand that I endorse Mr Schouwenaar's conclusions. It supports the usefulness and necessity of this legislative proposal and also appreciates the balance between any risks and their benefits in a positive way. Mr Engels says he has a number of pressing points which he would like to discuss with his group. I know that this was also the case in the House of Representatives, because on the same points the D66 group in the House of Representatives really had a number of notes to crack. I hope, I say to Mr Engels, that we can hold on to the line we have had so far and that I can once again convince D66 with the strength of arguments to vote in favour of the legislative proposal that I have tabled here. I hope to be able to achieve that effect here again. I know that the D66 Group in the House of Representatives also made serious considerations and had to make them in order to vote in favour at the end of the day. Perhaps that was also possible because of the archdad of Dutch speaking rights as we know it now, Mr Dittrich, who, of course, came from the D66 Group for a reason; as a judge, I would add. I hope that this aspect can be taken into account. Let me take another look at the points raised by Mr Engels. He said: we see problematic aspects in this balance. Wouldn't the judge, despite my denial, feel called upon to do something with the penalty if it were brought forward by the victim? I know D66 as a party which is more than an average emphasis on independence, but also on the quality of the judiciary, and I think that we really must rely on the quality and independence of the judiciary in this respect. I think that the Dutch courts are able to deal with this carefully and wisely, and where that is possible, where the judges are guessed, I can imagine that they might want to explain again in the relationship between the victim and the judiciary why they could not or would not have followed that measure of punishment, if they had already been able to do so within the framework of the law. I do not see the risk of emphasis being placed on the aspect of retaliation. I don't think that's the issue. Nothing changes the role of retaliation in our criminal justice system. The only thing we are doing is to lift the restriction that we now have and which we imposed on the victims for good reasons. We are removing them, because we see that with this limitation we are achieving a counter-objective. People who use the right to speak feel severely limited, are very disappointed and speak of censorship. At the same time, we know from the evaluation study, and I would also like to point out to Mrs Strik............................................................................................................................................................................................. We must therefore realise that if your Chamber were not to support this bill by a majority, it would actually say that those victims would not get the extension they would like. I think I have also made it very clear in the debate that in my opinion there is no change whatsoever in the justification requirements that we have in the current criminal proceedings. There's no change in that. In reply to a question from Mr Engels, I have already said that, as far as I am concerned, there can be no change in any compulsion or pressure whatsoever in relation to that obligation to state reasons. I would like to thank Mrs Beuving for the compliments she has given me. Mrs Strik has indicated that she is going to do her best to convince her group. If she needs help, I am always willing to be there. I'm assuming that won't be necessary. I look forward to the final voting behaviour of GroenLinks. I would like to point out that I was also able to count on the warm support of GroenLinks in the House of Representatives, in the end, because that too has not gone without a fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-05-eerstekamer-4.u97	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
