ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. There she is: the bill of the energy agreement, at least a small part of it. However, this account is delivered to Dutch households, while it should have been delivered to Greenpeace, the Climate Alliance, VNO-NCW, the IPO, Energy Netherlands, the NS, Nature & Environment and all the other signatories to the energy agreement, including the Cabinet. These parties were too miserable and too thoughtless to calculate in advance exactly what that uneconomic and unreliable energy would cost. In the meantime, we know that this doesn't produce anything for the climate. Let this settle again... All these parties, including the Cabinet, signed an agreement which the General Court later established would cost 73 billion. I would like to say to Mr Lintmeijer that economics has long been introduced. So they had no idea what it was going to cost. There has been no cost-benefit analysis. Before the elections, there were parties who said that windmills run on subsidies. After the same election, they literally threw nearly 73 billion into the sea. And next year, that's another 12 billion in SDE grants. That's one and a half times the defense budget, where they call out "pang-pang" for lack of bullets. It is amazing that all parties, except the PVV, support this policy of unbridled increases in charges. And that while, as has been said, the account goes to households, and above all to small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. the baker, thezzp'er and the contractor. All these entrepreneurs will have to raise their prices if they are to earn some money. As a result, the account ends up with Dutch households again. Who stands up for them? The PVV is the only party to speak tonight. On the political priority list of ordinary Dutch people, climate change is almost at the bottom. In Germany, the support base of the Energiewende has been wiped out and dropped to only 26%. Many countries are shutting down the subsidy faucets because of their invaluability. In Germany, network interventions alone cost 320 million a year and parts of Australia ran out of power for weeks because of an imploding network, but here the story of the donkey and the stone is repeated. While previously only left-wing activists became a grant entrepreneur, in the meantime VVDs have also discovered the vortex of taxpayers' money. The VVD even suggested in the Lower House that this subsidy industry has something to do with the free market. Money from ordinary hardworking Dutch people disappears into the pockets of mega-enterprises. Take DONG Energy, which is now also the subject of research due to malpractice. That is largely in the hands of Goldman Sachs; you know, that company where José Manuel Barroso has since started working. Through the EU, he arranged for EU countries to start producing renewable energy. Now our tax dollars are draining through Goldman Sachs straight into his pockets. Dutch top bankers and former top bankers have also discovered the so-called sustainable subsidy. The left-wing parties are very much in favour of this. Who could have thought of that? Climate agreement or not, worldwide about 1,500 coal plants are added, or they are in the planning. How else did you think that these 2.5 billion additional people could be powered by 2025? You didn't seriously think windmills or biomass could do that, did you? China opens, climate agreement or not, a new coal power plant every week, at least until 2020. But in climate hysteria, the facts don't matter anymore. In my province, Eneco might set up a bioheat plant in the city of Utrecht, because: subsidy. The emissions of such a plant exceed those of a coal power plant. And that power station is set up in the middle of the city. Who's making that up? That can only happen if facts don't matter anymore. In the meantime, other parties are promoting the banning of scented candles. We're gonna have to get rid of all the fables about jobs. The energy agreement would create 90,000 to 92,000 years of work, different from one document to another. But the grant ends, then the job ends. How durable is that? Melkert couldn't have thought of it better. Let me try to explain. Before the energy agreement, we had power. After the energy agreement, we still have power, but now, among other things, we have to pay 92,000 years of work. You don't have to have studied economics for too long to understand that Dutch families can't spend their money on anything else if you make a product, a first need for life, very expensive. This therefore has an impact on the economy and employment, especially when means of production such as windmills and solar panels are produced abroad. I understand that many alpha people are here now, but they too should be able to understand that. In response to our questions and in an earlier debate I had with him, the Minister reiterates that these are net jobs. He does not, however, answer the written questions in which we referred to the Boston Consulting Group, which explained that the 520 billion energy transition does not create jobs for Germany. And that while Germany exports more renewable energy than we do. On page 20 of the 2016 National Energy Exploratory, it says literally that it is about "energy-related employment." Decisio writes in its report of January 2016 on regional wind farms at sea: the 2,100 MW wind energy off the Dutch coast provides 1,600 FTE of temporary employment. By the way, it says that foreign temporary employment is seven times higher. So 1,600 jobs in the Netherlands, 11,200 temporary jobs abroad, paid with Dutch subsidy. And still insist that it is good for the Dutch economy... And refuse to have this independently investigated, equivalent to the refusal to examine whether those windmills contribute to less emissions. This cabinet operates voodoo economics. That's the term I picked up from the General Reviews. I'm sure the Prime Minister will let me borrow it. Hundreds of thousands of households in Germany are cut off from energy per year, which has become priceless. SPDs call even more energy subsidies "Wahnsinn." Maybe the Labour Party could call her colleagues in Germany. The CDU wants to get rid of all energy subsidies in its election programme. The CDA doesn't have a punk tonight. As if the energy agreement were not disastrous enough, this Minister came up with the Energy Agenda a few weeks ago. In the meantime, the fact that it has no effect on the climate has also penetrated the offices of EZ. Now we have to believe in "taking advantage of economic opportunities." So you rig up a subsidy industry that exists exclusively and exclusively in the pardon of taxes and subsidies, and then you call it "economic opportunities." That is the death sting for every kind of innovation and real progress. This is a planning economy for energy, introduced by a VVD minister. I'm rounding up. On the care dossier, so shortly before the elections, big words are used and firm promises are made about one's own contribution to care. That is right; the PVV also thinks that we should get rid of this towering own contribution. However, I note that none of the other parties making these promises will be speaking here tonight when those same hundreds of euros are taken out of the pockets of households. Those hundreds of euros a year really come from the same household wallet. Only the PVV opposes that gray in the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to answer directly. That's the case. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I noticed that Mr Dercksen did not bother to accept the bill. The bill we have tabled concerns the storage of renewable energy. The original law applied for the years 2013 to 2016, but that was an omission. It should have been: from 2013 to 2017. The only thing that is done with this proposal is to rectify that omission. There is therefore now a proposal to maintain the existing law, the duration of which is in accordance with the original intention. I have heard a lot of comments from Mr Dercksen. Occasionally I get the idea that the PVV tries to isolate itself as much as possible, to rule out any chance of ever working together, to take responsibility for themselves. Otherwise, I cannot explain the wording he has chosen, for example, that others are too miserable to have anything calculated or any other statements made. Mr. Dercksen stacks error on error. He says that next year 12 billion will be spent on renewable energy. In reality, 12 billion grant commitments are expected to be made next year. These commitments will then be paid out over a period of 15 years. A subsidy payment will only be granted if electricity is actually produced. So next year there will be a commitment of 12 billion. This amount shall then be paid over a period of 15 years. That is quite different from what Mr Dercksen is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u5	I think I said that. I said that next year there will be 12 billion SDE grants. Perhaps this is a good time to ask how much the energy agreement is going to cost. The Court of Auditors put 73 billion on it a while ago. You will be in the news with the announcement that windmills at sea without the construction of the network will be cheaper. However, do you have a picture of the total? What's the middle position? What exactly is the energy agreement going to cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u6	That image has been presented several times, also to the First Chamber. That image is shifting, of course. If the electricity price falls, it is necessary to pay more subsidy. If the price of windmills falls, less subsidies will have to be paid. So at some point you have to update that image again and that also happens with some regularity. Every time there's an actualization, it gets back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u7	That wasn't exactly an answer to my question. My question was: what is the picture of today, looking ahead to 2038, or 2036 in my view, the period in which these subsidies are paid out? You must have an idea of how many billions this is going to cost. You're not implementing a policy you don't know how much it costs? That is how we started with the energy agreement, but you must have come to the conclusion halfway through the journey that you have to calculate what the policy actually costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u8	Does Mr Dercksen not listen to my answer at all? We have formulated a number of times exactly what the energy agreement will cost in its implementation. That's what we shared with the Upper House. That amount depends on a number of developments. If electricity prices fall, more subsidies will be needed for renewable energy. If the price of windmills or solar panels falls, less is needed. I can't just shuffle off every day what's going on at the time. At some point it will be updated again. Every time it is updated, the whole is presented and also shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u9	Finally, Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u10	I can't get an answer to my question how much it costs. That is, of course, rather sad. There was a time when the cabinet said it would cost 18 billion. ECN (Energy Research Centre Netherlands) and the PBL (Planning Agency for the Environment) had calculated this. Eventually, that turned out to be just a calculation until 2020, while the whole planning process goes until 2038. I note that I have asked three times what the current state of affairs is, with current energy prices and the current costs of solar panels and windmills, and that I cannot get an answer. I just called that "voodoo economics." We're implementing a plan that we don't know how much it costs. I think that is a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u11	I won't say what I've already said for the third time. I can only say that, on the basis of developments, I have an approximate picture of the situation at the moment. With all the reservations, the estimate is currently that an amount of EUR 32 billion is needed in a period ranging from 2016 to 2032. For that period, the picture is that that amount is about needed, but that is not the exact picture. The exact image can only be determined when you have collected all the information and have looked at the state of play for all those different factors. Then you can paint another picture and share it with the Chamber. That also happens at regular intervals. I started by saying that the announcement that 12 billion will be needed next year is not true. The picture that renewable energy prices are constantly rising and that this is an increasing burden for Dutch households is also at odds with reality. May I present the facts to you? I'll start with the solar parks. Since 2009, prices for solar parks have fallen by 73%, to a maximum of 12.5 cents per kilowatt hour. 12.5 cents per kilowatt hour means a decrease of 73% since 2009. I see that when granting the SDE+ grant, I often have to give less of a grant, because projects are brought in for lower amounts. For land winds, the price has fallen since 2009 from 12 cents per kilowatt hour to 7 cents per kilowatt hour. We have recently seen developments at the wind farms at sea. We expected a 40% reduction in costs by the year 2023. At the latest wind farms at sea that I have tendered, a cost reduction of 55% has already been achieved. Already, so not in the year 2023, but now. For this last wind farm, therefore, I estimate that for a period of seven to eight years there will be a need for a subsidy, but not after that. That park may last 25 years. It will therefore remain unsubsidised for a very long period and will supply electricity to citizens and businesses in the Netherlands in a way that is not harmful to the environment and the climate. On the contrary, it will be a solution. Then I come to the picture that Dutch households have to bleed for what happens with renewable energy. Mr Dercksen always takes very selective knowledge of information provided to him. That's why I'm gonna help him out a little bit. In the 2016 National Energy Exploratory, the amount that an average household had to pay for energy in 2015 is compared to the amount expected to be paid in 2020. It is therefore the period from 2015 to 2020. During that period we are busy making the transition to renewable energy. We have already spent a great deal of money on this. During this period, the energy bill for an average household is expected to decrease from €1.656 to €1.625. There is therefore a decrease over a period of five years. Then there's nothing left of Mr. Dercksen's Indian stories, is there? He then brings the Energiewende in Germany. It's about the transition from nuclear energy to non-nuclear energy. We cannot compare what is happening in Germany about the closure of nuclear power stations with what we are doing in the Netherlands, which is replacing coal plants and other fossil power generation with sustainable electricity generation. They are incomparable quantities. I also don't quite understand what Australia has to do with it. I'll see if there's anything else I need to go into. I come to the new coal plants in China. I can't confirm that a coal power plant is being built every week. I can see that there is a great deal of concern in China at the moment, because there is a smog blanket on a large part of China due to the emissions of all kinds of substances that pose a major risk to the health of the Chinese. We also see this in the Netherlands. We have already taken many measures against this. The transition to renewable energy, which we are now working on, will further improve the situation in the Netherlands in the future. Partly for this reason, not only China and the United States of America, but 196 other countries, together with the Netherlands, have signed an agreement in Paris. These countries have said that it is very important that we make the transition to renewable energy. So that is not a hobby of the Dutch cabinet, but an agreement made between 197 countries in the world. These countries have said that, in their opinion, it is absolutely necessary to take measures to reduce CO2 emissions, to limit the temperature increase of the earth to 2°C, or, rather, to 1.5°C. I have just said something about the fables about the energy subsidy that should continue to flow. The last wind farm at sea has been subsidised for 7.5 years, while future owners expect a duration of 25 years. Windmills and solar panels are not only produced abroad. 30% of all activities in the field of offshore wind farms are carried out by Dutch companies. The Dutch companies thus hold 30% of that market. I propose that Mr Dercksen take a look at the activities of the company Sif on the Maasvlakte. I would remind him of a company from Roermond, which has grown from 320 to 620 jobs over a period of three or four years. Mr Dercksen says that once the windmills are in place, employment is over, but he forgets that these windmills must also be maintained. He also forgets that we do not intend to stop, but that the construction of windmills in the North Sea will continue for a longer period. In the energy agreement I have already announced that after the five times 700 megawatts in the period up to 2023, the next step is seven times 1000 megawatts in the seven years after 2023. So this is something that goes on and creates a lot of jobs. This employment is of great economic importance, because it allows the transition to a circular economy, a sustainable economy, an economy where raw materials are not constantly produced, but where residues and already used substances are re-used. That transition will continue, no matter what the PVV will claim. This is very important for our entire society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u12	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. Where do I start? The Minister says that, according to the current state of the art, the energy agreement will reach 32 billion until 2032. That is 40 billion less than the General Court calculated a number of years ago. There's 40 billion in there. At present, a number of experts are counting on what the calculation will be. I can tell you that this calculation will be even higher than that of the General Court. Perhaps it is also logical that the Minister does not know, because he is organising an Energy Dialogue, but if the experts mentioned have a presentation at EZ, no one will come. The minister won't come, and there won't be one official. That's a little bit of what's going on. So the question is not whether we isolate ourselves, the question is whether the Minister is isolating himself from information. Speaking of isolation. I have a letter here from a VVD physicist. This gentleman knows things, and if he doesn't know them, he investigates them. He was a member of the General Energy Council, director of the FOM, the Foundation for Fundamental Research of the Matter, and director of the Technology Foundation STW. It seems to me that this is someone we can listen to. In fact, he concludes what I just concluded. He concludes, for example, that wind energy already saves barely any fuel autonomously, because we have to keep gas and coal power stations running on standby. These power stations must also be maintained; the minister himself said so. And those windmills must also be placed. The piece that would then be saved according to the models is traded via the ETS system. This ultimately leads to more lignite production in Eastern Europe and de facto more environmental pollution. If the minister doesn't believe me, let him believe his partymate. The same applies to solar panels. The Minister says that the cost of this will be reduced, but we now have little use for example, because in winter it is dark and the solar panels do not deliver any or hardly any energy. They have a net energy output that is way too low, when you calculate how much coal is used in China to produce those things and when you calculate what it costs for installation, conversion, storage, cabling and backup. The net energy from a solar panel then turns out to be very small. I can't help that either; that's just what people have determined. Let me also mention biomass, because the Minister has a problem with that in the House of Representatives. Even the Labour Party has found that biomass has nothing to do with sustainability, so that means something. A lot of funding is still going there, too. The minister was wondering what I had to do with Australia. Well, here's the thing. Germany has a lot of network interventions. That makes the economy vulnerable, because if the network goes down, your economy will be flat. In South Australia, the economy was flat for weeks because the windmill was no longer running and the network had exploded. Those surgeries are gonna be so expensive. If Germany produces a lot of wind now, it will give it away, either to us or to Austria. Poland and the Czech Republic do not want this energy anymore, because it endangers their network. So that's what we're dealing with in Australia. If we set up the same windmill capacity as in Germany, then no one can do anything with the energy and we have to stop windmills. Worse still, the legislation stipulates that these mills could have generated energy, so you will still receive subsidies for these mills, despite the fact that we cannot release this energy on the network and therefore no electricity is provided. That is about what is happening on the basis of the energy agreement. The Minister has spoken of Sif. Give me $100 million, and I'll put a lot of people to work. To be honest, I don't think that's a great achievement for Sif. These windmills are mainly from Denmark, from Goldman Sachs. I have one final specific question for the Minister. Some time ago, it was in the media that TenneT was capitalized for 22 billion to improve the network. There was a part of the wind at sea. Exactly how many of these billions are needed for renewable energy? Reports have been published in the market stating that the amounts for TenneT could be between 20 billion and 71 billion. Can the Minister clarify what part of that amount is needed for renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr Dercksen. I note that the Minister has the opportunity to reply immediately. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. I notice that Mr Dercksen is still not talking about the bill. He talks about the Energy Dialogue that we are organising and says that I am closing for information. With this Energy Dialogue, we have reached many thousands of people on the Internet, and we have also reached many thousands of people at hundreds of meetings in the country. Wherever we could, we have looked up the dialogue in order to receive as much information as possible and to benefit from it in preparing the energy agenda. The statement that I would close my eyes to information is too ridiculous to respond further to it. Mr Dercksen cites one alleged expert. His qualification is mainly, I understand, that he is a member of the VVD, for which I am grateful. I think it would have taken him real trouble to find someone else to defend the story that what is happening in the field of renewable energy would be wasted effort and wasted energy. If there is one issue on which agreement is reached in the world and for which agreement has been reached in Paris from all over the world, then that is the transition to renewable energy. This was possible not only because the problem was recognised, but also because the urgency and the need for joint agreements were felt, in order to reduce CO2 emissions on our planet, because its consequences are very negative for the living environment of future generations. We do not want to do so, at least many of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u16	Perhaps the Minister has missed a marginal development in the United States? It could be, but it'll probably be soon. Perhaps it is a good thing to say that we are not responsible for any kind of energy. We are opposed to subsidising certain forms of energy, in particular because other forms of energy such as thorium and MSR do allow us to supply demand-driven energy without limit. I have just indicated that, apart from the subsidy, windmills and solar panels with network interventions could only absorb some of the energy needed. We can't do it without fossil energy. So let us go to an energy supply that is demand-driven, so that if energy is needed, it can also be delivered. This should not only be possible when the sun is shining or when the wind is blowing. But don't do that without a subsidy! This gives real companies the opportunity to develop these forms of energy and to be innovative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u17	Mr Dercksen says that he is not against a form of energy in advance. I can tell him that in the four years I have been doing this work, I have never heard anyone from the PVV here or in the House of Representatives say one positive word about renewable energy. So, on the basis of my own experience, I have a strong impression that we are opposed to renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u18	That's because there's 32, 73, 90 billion taxpayers' money going there. That's because it puts pressure on our prosperity. The Minister does not hear us cheering about windmills and solar panels, simply because they cost us prosperity. That's why we're not excited about windmills. If they gave us free power, the minister could have had a chat with us, if we had put them far away at sea. But that's not the issue. It's unprofitable energy and it's energy you can't count on, simply because the windmills only produce energy for 35% of the time, or 40% if it's very upset at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u19	It would cost our prosperity and jobs much more if we neglected what is going on in terms of CO emissions and climate change. That is a conviction of 197 countries in the world who have therefore made agreements, which the Netherlands also adheres to. Mr Dercksen spoke about the 14% renewable energy target in the Netherlands. He said: the effect of this is only that lignite is produced instead in Germany. He forgets that the 14% that the Netherlands wants to produce of renewable energy in 2020 is part of agreements made for Europe as a whole. 28 countries of the European Union all have a percentage they must strive for. Some countries have it easier, such as Sweden with its high altitude differences and the presence of water that can be used for hydro-energy. In Sweden, therefore, there is more than 50%, and that country has a higher target. In other countries such as the Netherlands, the situation is very different. That is why we have a 14% target. In Germany there are already between 20% and 30%. This, as well as the picture I have just outlined of the Paris agreement, shows that all the countries in Europe are moving towards renewable energy in a variety of forms. This includes renewable electricity, which we often talk about. Mr Dercksen also spoke about the proceeds of solar panels. He read in the newspaper a story in which someone claimed that the solar panels didn't yield anything. However, there followed a response from a number of experts who had taken a very precise look at this and came to very different conclusions. It seems that Mr Dercksen has not reached it. The next point is biomass. In biomass, you use trees that have bound the CO as they grew. So they take the CO out of the air. The CO is in the trees. Then these trees are used for building materials and the waste wood is used to hide in our coal plants. That wood is used instead of coal. If you take coal out of the ground, you take out the CO that's bound deep underground and blow it into the air. But if you use biomass, you're in a circular process where the CO is bound and also gets back into the air. That is why this is part of renewable energy. Agreements have been made on what exactly is and is not renewable energy. Nuclear energy is not included, for example, and biomass is. On the basis of the definitions that have been established, we have continued to pursue our policy. I can tell Mr Dercksen that we need all the possibilities for renewable energy to reach the 2020 target. Biomass is an indispensable part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u20	That is because they said in Brussels that it is sustainable. In the meantime, however, the environmental organizations and even the Labour Party must not get any crazier! It finds that biomass has nothing to do with sustainability. Adult trees also absorb CO. They are cut down, they are sailed with diesel boats and then go into the Amercentrale in Brabant in pieces. Speaking of isolation, there is hardly anyone who can call biomass sustainable anymore, apart from the terrible emissions that are worse than those of coal. So we're trapped in fictional models from Brussels. We're not thinking anymore. We have a trading system that shows that CO emissions in Eastern Europe are accelerating, because we are pretending to emit less here. The CPB says that there is an overall increase in environmental pollution. The minister's acting like I'm crazy Henkie, but that's what the CPB says. That's what all nature organisations say about biomass. Almost everyone says that in the meantime. You only have to wait: in the end PVV views are taken over very often. That is also the case in this debate. So I'm not isolated. Biomass has nothing to do with sustainability. I know the story of those trees, but it really doesn't pay up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u21	Apparently, 'Brussels' is a dirty word for Mr Dercksen, with which he thinks he has sufficiently argued the matter. What is or is not sustainable has been established after an analysis of the case. It does not matter whether that happens in Brussels, Paris or The Hague, the case is analysed. You're going to see how you can make that transition from fossil to renewable energy and what's and doesn't belong to it. On the basis of what has been established, agreements have then been made, including in the energy agreement, including with Greenpeace and with the Foundation for Nature and the Environment, that no more than 25 petajoules of biomass will be destroyed in the period of the energy agreement until 2023. That's exactly what I'm doing. I'm sticking to the agreements and the analyses that have been made. I believe that biomass is a sensible way of producing renewable energy. I do believe, however, that the effects of transport should ultimately also be faced with the fact that you partially capture and store the CO that is still in the air. That is why we are also working on the 2020 Road Project. The storage of CO in empty gas fields is something that is being pursued in Europe. The Netherlands is trying to implement a large-scale pilot project in this area. I hope to be able to provide more information on this in the first quarter of next year. Mr Dercksen spoke about the windmills from Denmark. I don't know what else to say about that. Turbines are on the windmills and they are made at Siemens in Germany and they are also made in Denmark. If you need windmills, you're gonna need those big pillars and wicks, too. Some are made in Germany, others in the Netherlands. It's spread all over Europe. I have already said that 30% of everything that happens to wind at sea is in the hands of Dutch companies. I believe that this is an example of the quality of Dutch industry which, if a new market develops, is also able to acquire a large share of it. In the end, Mr Dercksen asked about TenneT. What does renewable energy mean for TenneT? At the moment, we have an idea of the costs of wind at sea that TenneT has to pay. I make the necessary reservations, but I estimate, on the basis of the information I have and the expectations regarding the development of electricity prices, that in total for the five wind farms that we create at sea off the Dutch coast, 2 billion is needed. In addition, EUR 4 billion of funding is needed to ensure that the electricity from these windmills is collected and landed. In total, therefore, a total of 6 billion is needed for the offshore windmills, over a period of up to 15 years. That figure was first estimated at 18 billion, but now at 6 billion. Of this 6 billion, 4 billion is needed for TenneT's investment there. Those were my additional comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-5.u22	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the bill tomorrow night at the end of the evening.
