ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u1	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the questions raised by Senator Lintmeijer and Senator Stienen about the budget. In particular, they asked for clarification of how the first-year reception of asylum seekers is to be incorporated into the budget, how the system is to be implemented, what this means for the budget and whether this could be done better and differently. It is good to note here that the costs of first-year reception of asylum seekers are part of the OECD DAC definition of ODA. This means that since the beginning of the 1990s, the Netherlands has been charging ODA the costs of first year care. In that sense, it is no different than in previous years. Other countries do, too. We include the costs of the reception in the HGIS note and also in the budget of the policy-responsible departments V and J. We explained this in more detail in the letter of 8 February to which Mrs Stienen referred. So it's not a new development. Of course, due to the arrival of larger numbers of people as a result of the terrible war in Syria, the budget is larger than in previous years. We've picked that up in the cabinet in several ways. We've always reported that to the Chamber. In addition to the contribution from the budget, additional measures have been taken. A total of 725 million from the general budget was added to the ODA budget in 2014 and 2015. That was also necessary, because the batter was not only unforeseen, but also very large. There was also a motion adopted in the Lower House, which stated that the costs for asylum seekers should not lead to cuts in existing programmes. We have been able to avoid this by means of this additional deposit, if I may say so, of EUR 725 million, but also by the continuation of the GNI growth achieved in later years. That's a cash drawer indeed. In this way we have been able to avoid discounts on programme lines. The Chamber will now ask: is such a cash drawer really an orderly instrument? It is a regular instrument that can only be used with the permission of the Minister of Finance. It is also done in other budgets. In the budget of BuHa-OS, we sometimes do so, for example in the case of multi-annual contributions to multilateral programmes. Depending on the plans of the Netherlands and the plans of the multilateral partners, there is also a shift from one year to another. So, one year a little less, the other year a little more. It's actually a different pay-as-you-go rhythm. As I said, in order to cover the costs of asylum, we have highlighted GNI growth. I think that's what they call "frontloading" in English. Because the expected asylum influx for 2016 was lower than budgeted, we have been able to move back a bit. I understand that the Chamber is asking how this system works, but I would also point out that, at the request of the House of Representatives, we have also paid extra attention to making it clear in the HGIS note, in the budget of V and J. If any changes are made to the estimates or to the costs realised, we will also report them. Senator Stienen pointed out that the Netherlands proved to be the highest amount for each asylum seeker. That is not a policy or output as an outcome of policy. Countries, within the definitions that apply to them, make assessments of the way in which they are received. In some countries it will undoubtedly be different in nature or shorter in duration than in the Netherlands. We stick to the OECD agreements and then reach this figure. It is true, I say to Mrs Stienen, that V and J are responsible for policy, but they are accountable in the way that is customary within the government. Audit reports and audits shall be prepared. The budget of V and J is, of course, being discussed in the States General. There is also a lot of consultation. Of course, Mrs Stienen's question of how the costs are accounted for is also our responsibility. So there's a meeting. As part of the consultation and cost monitoring process, an administrative after-account has recently taken place. It appeared that in previous years too much was attributed to ODA. We have asked the Audit Service Empire to help us with the monitoring. The amount has also been recovered. That control and that consultation are therefore always there to ensure that we can justify the costs. Mrs. Stienen asked about the influx estimate. It's true that it's been adjusted. For 2016, the estimate was 58,000 people. Based on actual numbers, it has been adjusted to 32,000 people. This means an adjustment of 290 million in 2016 and 170 million in 2017. Of course, this has an impact on asylum allocation. We have used these amounts to help resolve deficits that have arisen in the years after 2017. Mrs Stienen also asked whether this is a sensible way of budgeting, because it is so volatile. This volatility, which usually results from a sad reality, cannot be controlled, but can you take that into account in your budget? The budgetary system is not really working that way. A budget is not a reserve; a budget must really be based on real estimates. Moreover, we do not make these estimates; they are made by the department responsible for policy. In the financial processes we go through, we can adjust at different times in the year. So it is not that nothing can be changed once the budget has been presented on Princess Day. We have the spring note, the draft budget and the autumn note. I understand very well that it requires extra efforts from the Chamber to monitor. We keep reporting, but there are changes taking place. However, we are always transparent about this, because we also want to show the Chamber the impact of estimates on the budget. So far we have been able to comply with the Slob/Samsom motion of two esteemed Members of Parliament. They are neither part of the Dutch Parliament anymore, but their motion remains valid. I am also pleased that we have succeeded and that we did not need to break into ongoing programmes, because that undermines the effectiveness of the programmes. I say it at home very quickly, but in general this is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u3	I thank the Minister for this statement, but I still have a question about the link between the high costs incurred by the Netherlands, almost $32,000, €30,000 per year, per asylum seeker in the shelter. That's more than a moral income, that's a lot of money. When it comes to acceptance, we should certainly question that. We believe that this is directly linked to short-term and long-term planning. I understand very well that you cannot keep reserves in the budget, but I wonder if any other kind of planning could also lower those costs in budgets. I'd like to hear it from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u4	I can easily get rid of this by answering that this is a responsibility of the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. He can undoubtedly inform the Chamber in more detail than I can, because it is his responsibility. However, I would like to say something about it. I understand Senator Stienen in such a way that she suggests that it is not sufficiently prepared for larger numbers of people than expected, has led to additional costs and that these costs again lead to that €30,000 per person. The fact is that we in the Netherlands want people to have a decent roof over their heads, that they can make use of the facilities, albeit sober, but necessary. We also want them to leave the asylum shelter as soon as possible after they have been granted a status and can simply live their own lives with a job and a home. We have seen that the increase in the number of people has made the flow from the COA facilities to independent housing much more difficult. Where people have previously stayed in a COA institution for an average of six months, this has increased to ten months. That explains part of the higher costs. But yes, distress also breaks the law. The shelter in the Netherlands in the centres is sober, but I also think that we should do justice to the people who fled violence. I know Mrs Stienen agrees. I think we should take them here in a decent way. Of course, it is important to continue working on a faster flow of people who have status and who are allowed to stay here, to homes. However, this also has its own dynamics. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether the costs we have spent on first-year asylum have not been at the expense of emergency aid. Let me make it a little more political. You can of course say that the Netherlands itself took part of the ODA. You can present that as a fact, but the fact is that those costs have been incurred to take people here in a decent way. The fact is that I am glad that the Netherlands has been able to give these people a safe haven here. I'd like to tell the whole story. That also does justice to the situation. Back to the question: has this not been at the expense of addressing humanitarian needs in other places in the world? In recent years, we have made additional resources available for humanitarian aid in addition to the regular annual budget. That regular annual budget is 200 million. In 2017, it's 230 million, slightly more, but in that order of magnitude. In 2014, we released EUR 570 million from the general budget for the period 2014-2017 for emergency aid. In 2015, an additional 110 million was released for the Syrian region. The average spending on emergency aid in 2014, 2015 and 2016 amounts to 434 million euros per year. That is substantially higher than in the years before. There was every reason for that, because the need is very great. In addition, this year we have added 260 million to the budget for better reception in the region. Better care means not only that people are housed and fed, but also that there is education for their children and that there is work being done on jobs. We have made a considerable extra effort on emergency aid. Again, there was every reason for that. The Netherlands is top ten-donor. It is not a list of who is the best, but I think it is very important that the Netherlands has been able to make a significant contribution to meeting the needs of 65 million people. Mr. Linthorst asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u5	Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u6	Mr. Lintmeijer. Oh, excuse me, it was Mrs. Linthorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u7	Yeah, but he hasn't been in this room since 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u8	You call me so little here that I almost missed it. Back to Mr. Lintmeijer, also a beautiful name. He says that the emergency aid budget is falling, while the export funds are increasing. Both of them don't add up. I have just explained that the resources for emergency aid have increased. Perhaps it is good to mention that the Netherlands has an open economy. 2.2 million jobs in the Netherlands depend on that open economy, on the fact that we are a trading nation. We have not provided more export financing in the past year than in the previous years. There is a non-ODA facility of EUR 110 million for seven years, which is made up of existing non-ODA funding facilities. Within the Dutch Good Growth Fund, which is development-relevant, also according to the OECD-DAC, which has of course looked at this precisely, 125 million euros have been released for seven years for development-relevant export financing. These include medical equipment and investments in a textile factory in Ghana. That's very well spent money with a big leverage. Each euro in the Dutch Good Growth Fund generates €35 more. But it is no more than the emergency aid budget and it has not risen. The other way around, the emergency aid budget has increased, as I have just said. The last question I have to answer is about the agreements with Mali on migration. I would like to quote Mr Lintmeijer: is it mainly about obstructing escape routes or is it about creating better conditions? The agreements see a broad and common approach aimed at providing a better future for young people in Mali. You must imagine, Mr Lintmeijer knows that perhaps our colleagues from African countries find it terrible to see their talented young people fleeing to Europe and that they feel it is necessary to work with us to ensure that there is more perspective in the place where those young people are born. In Mali, it is specifically about creating jobs for young people, tackling smuggling and improving security conditions. It's also about getting back. The return is not new, but the senators here undoubtedly know that. It has always been part of the Cotonou Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u9	I understand the confusion with the names of pastors. For the sake of clarity, my group was on the one hand last time and today on the other. I had another supplementary question on Mali, thanks for the answer so far. Does the agreement mainly concern Malian citizens and their possible routes and returns, or is it also about third-country nationals who use routes in Mali or Mali?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u10	This is an extremely relevant question, because migration does not, of course, respect national borders. You can see that there are routes in Mali along which the smugglers also bring people from other countries. For the Malians themselves, it is difficult to find a good answer to this; hence the investment. The EU makes agreements with countries in Africa, but it is generally a broader regional approach. I see that Mr Lintmeijer is now on the left. It is a broader approach in which governments in those African countries are also very aware of the need for cooperation. They do so in ECOWAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u11	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. I was just considering discussing the last point with the Minister, but it can also be done in the second term with a supplementary question about the Malian citizens and the citizens of third countries around them who may be using routes in Mali. Is the Malian government the one who is given the responsibility in the "Europe deal" to find a solution to this? Or does the deal go beyond Mali's government alone and are the surrounding countries also accessible on those escape routes and, more importantly, on the reception of people in their own region? It would be nice if the Minister could say a few words about this in her second term. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering the other questions. The answers on emergency aid and export promotion are enlightening. I'm happy about that. As far as the ODA definition is concerned, we know that this is allowed under the OECD rules. We are also aware that this has been the way for several decades. However, it will be difficult when the seizure of the first reception of asylum seekers becomes disproportionate compared to the size of the budget for ODA funds and for OS. Our political assessment is: if that is how it is done, is that still sensible? We are, of course, glad that some of the general resources have been added to the budget, I would just say in Dutch. At the same time, we see the effect on the budget, namely that what actually remains available for structural aid in those places where we think it is most necessary, will be put under pressure. Perhaps the Minister could also comment on how we can compensate for this in the longer term, especially towards 2020. I realise that we can be two Cabinets further, but we also like to look to the future. Related to this is the cash slide, the persistence of the effectiveness of GNI growth, the frontloading or whatever you want to call it. It is ultimately a question of borrowing money from the future, which is then no longer available in the future. We need that money now to meet a number of needs here. We are concerned that the actual budget for development cooperation is structurally out of control and that it has been working for several years. The money cannot then be spent at the place where we would prefer to spend it. We fully understand that a budget is not a budget reserve. But maybe we can look at another system and see if we can get the communicating vessels from somewhere else than from the vulnerable OS and ODA budgets. That's where our concern lies. The Minister referred to a number of other countries. That's always gonna be a game about who knows the most about something else. In Germany, funds for the reception of asylum seekers have been much more widely extracted from the general funds than we have. Everyone makes their own choices. Our political choice is to leave the budgets dedicated to emptying needs in the places where those needs arise. Our political priority is to use most of that money in those places. There's only a few seconds left. In that I can thank the Minister for the answer and say that I am curious about the answers to the last questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u13	Those seconds you didn't have left, that's what you went over. But it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions. I have a number of points for the second term. For D66, as for GroenLinks, it is difficult that the first-year reception of asylum seekers is covered by the DAC-ODA criteria. We would really like to see that different. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I am pleased to hear that the Minister is so committed to a sober but dignified reception in his own country. Don't get us wrong: that may cost a bit. We simply believe that it should remain proportionate to the reception in the region which also considers D66 to be important. Most people who flee prefer to be caught near their own country and returned as soon as possible. Emergency aid is certainly important, but it is always temporary. Some people's adage is that emergency aid should be allowed, but one must be critical of good, long-term and sustainable development cooperation and international cooperation. My group thinks that this is dangerous in this discussion. After all, you're sticking Band-Aids and that's not what D66's for. Ultimately, it is a question of restoring stability, peace and respect for human rights in certain countries, which means that people are no longer fleeing. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Minister, not only for her answers today, but also for her commitment over the last few years to this important issue of foreign trade and development cooperation. Finally, I have a question. Of course, the minister doesn't want to rule over her own period. However, we would like to know from her whether, with the wisdom of today, she has something for the transfer file of her successor with regard to a different kind of system of the seizure that the first-year reception of asylum seekers has put on her budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u15	Minister, will you be able to answer directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u16	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u17	I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologise to Mr Lintmeijer, whom I referred to as Linthorst. And I always thought Senator Overbeek was Mr. Lintmeijer. I have therefore looked at him quite unjustly from time to time with kindness but strictness. That wasn't meant for him at all. That will only come at the next debate! Anyway, all the crazy on a stick. Mr Lintmeijer's first question was about how the regional impact of migration is being looked at. The EU has agreed with the African Union in Valletta, which partly builds on existing agreements, such as the Cotonou Agreement. It has also been discussed that specific agreements are being sought at both regional and national level. Those specific agreements can only be effective if they are not implemented purely nationally. I spoke recently, for example, with the Minister for Migration of Morocco. So the conversation is not just about migration from Morocco. It is also about how we can work together to ensure that migration to Morocco is regulated either at a level acceptable to both Moroccans and people who do not always end up in good conditions. It is precisely in this context that attention is always paid to the regional perspective that needs to be chosen. Of course, the budget has come under pressure from the higher influx of people fleeing violence, particularly in Syria. Each party makes its own assessment, but the cabinet made the political assessment that it was necessary to add additional resources. The cabinet has also actively participated in the debate on the reform of the ODA definition. That debate took place in Paris. An IPO report has also been published on this subject. Apart from what we ourselves would think of that, you will notice that there is little support for changing the definition of first-year care. I would like to say this to Mr Lintmeijer, but also to Mrs Stienen. Indeed, I am not going to rule over my grave. All the parties who will be participating in the elections have been able to see how this has put pressure on the budget and how we have mitigated it. I have seen that several proposals have been put forward in the various electoral programmes on this subject, one of which has my sympathy more than the other. But that may also have to do with the question of whether that proposal belongs to my own party. It is true that some countries are doing more from general resources. It is true that Germany has done so. My obvious answer is that they have also invested in ODA far less in percentage terms than the Netherlands for years. However, that is not the point Mr Lintmeijer wants to make. I understand that the point he wants to make is that there's a choice in how you allocate that expenditure. We felt that we should stick to the definition. I think that was also the answer to Mrs Stienen's question. She asked how the Minister, in all her wisdom, looked at this. There is an accepted system and an accepted definition and that also brings with it some clarity. However, it is a fact that in recent years the pressure on the budget has become very heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-19-eerstekamer-6.u20	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the bill tomorrow evening at the end of the sitting.
