ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. On my very first day in the Lower House as a GroenLinks Chamber member I put an oral question to the then Minister for Aviation, Mr Eurlings. I asked him: Are you in the race for a top position at the KLM? The answer was the same as we heard from Minister Schultz's spokesman: he was not working on a new job. We know how things have turned out in history. So in politics, too, Talleyrand's rule is: don't believe in rumors unless they are strongly denied. My first question is therefore: was it a pleasant job interview at Schiphol? But seriously now. The ministry came up with a decision about Lelystad. The Ministry decided that air traffic controllers do not have to comply with the Top Income Standards Act and also receive an exemption at the retirement age. The Ministry came up with a new standard system for Schiphol, which reduces noise and pollution as a barrier to increasing the number of flight movements. This Minister has confidential and competitive information which would enable her to benefit as CEO. In short, it has an excellent view of the playing field on which Schiphol is situated. That is contrary to the exclusive service of political importance. There are intertwined interests and integrity issues. I come to my questions. Does the Minister recognize this tension field? Does she recognise that for all kinds of reasons it is undesirable for an old executive to start working as a ruler on his own territory immediately after the end of his period? If she doesn't recognize it, why not? And is she prepared to observe a cooling-off period should she consider making such a switch? In England, for example, there is a period of three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I was somewhat surprised that I received this question in the Chamber, but I am of course happy to go into it. It is indeed a rumor. I wasn't asked. I didn't contact them either. I was abroad Thursday and Friday when I received congratulations on Twitter. I really had to look up what I was congratulated on, but then it turned out to be about this. So there was no job interview. Then the question is: do you recognise the tension that you bear responsibility on the one hand, and on the other hand perhaps get to work somewhere? I don't recognize that tension for two reasons. This is currently the Secretary of State's file. I do not have at all any confidential documents at the airport, either, or it must be something we decide on in the Cabinet, but then it will apply to all ministers. How do I feel about going to work on the same field when my working period is over? I assume that this question applies to all ministers. I think that very much depends on the integrity of the choice to be made. Are you going somewhere where you would actually do something else with insider knowledge because you know you're going there? Or are you just invited in a certain field because you have built expertise there and can deliver it well in a next step? So there's no one-to-one answer to it. In other words, I do not think that a former executive can never go to a field in which he himself worked. I also do not think that you should achieve a cooling-off period in advance. I chose to work on a completely different field last time. This time I'm not working on it yet. I assume that we will be here at least until March, after which there will be elections and there will be a new cabinet. So it is still a very long time before I can get into the labour market at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	These are literally the answers I received from Minister Eurlings at the time: it is not true, I am not working on it and this is not going to happen. If a woman says no, she means no. So I'm not expecting this minister back in a position at Schiphol. I'd like to hold the Minister to that. I am also surprised that the Minister does not see any advantages in, for example, the rules in force in the European Commission or in the case of mayors and aldermen or senior officials. There is either a committee that assesses whether a function is at issue or not, or a set of rules, for example over a cooling-off period when it concerns a function on the Minister's own territory. This minister could work fine at Kennedy Airport, because there is probably not such an advantage of competition-sensitive knowledge and the more Dutch network that it would be unfair to other airports. But that is the case in the Netherlands. Once again, I would clearly like to hear from the Minister that she will not switch to Schiphol and that she will perhaps also be giving her thoughts on such a committee. That also protects the Minister himself, because then she doesn't have to defend herself: I don't do anything inaudible. Then there is a committee that has said: one year cooling-off period and then it can be fine. Or: this function can be done immediately. Or: this function cannot be held for the next five years. What would be against simply introducing a transparent system so that directors are not always called to account in the media or in the Chamber for their career choice after their reigning period? Because, of course, we all want everyone to get back to work usefully and meaningfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mrs. Van Tongeren interpreted my answers in her own way. I said I didn't apply and I haven't been approached either. I've been very clear about that, so that "no" just stands. Mrs Van Tongeren then said that I can no longer work at such a company, but I do not agree with her. I indicated in my second and third answer that I think that directors should be able to decide for themselves, on the basis of their own integrity, whether it is wise to be working in the same field again. Mrs Van Tongeren wondered whether it would not be wise for an external committee to decide what is good and whether it would not be better to get out of it for a year first. However, it is ultimately about the integrity of people themselves and about making sensible choices. The moment you make an unwise choice and do something that isn't right, you need to be able to deal with it. Isn't it important for you to be able to make your own assessment? I would like to make it quite clear that I am not applying and that I am not doing that either; in case one immediately thinks: there she goes. However, I do not agree with Mrs Van Tongeren's principles and I would like to talk about that. I really think that this consideration should be considered on its own at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	Why is that true for directors, but not for very large groups of people in all kinds of other functions? After all, we do have such arrangements at other levels. Is the Minister therefore opposed to the Euro-Commissioner's regime which does include agreements on cooling-off periods? In short, does the Minister think that there are two kinds of people: people who can guard their own integrity and a large group of the rest of the population for whom there are committees and regulations at that point? We have also agreed on this in our own ministries, so how does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	I do not know the rules for Commissioners, but it may well be that the European Parliament has asked to do so. This also has to do with the European Parliament's assessment and whether people should or should not be able to do so themselves. I think so myself. I do think it should apply if there is a competitive clause, because then you have very specific information from the company you work for and you should not be able to give it to the competitor, for example a new invention or patents. That's agreed in advance, so the moment you start a job like this, it's agreed that this is the rule. If a majority of Parliament believes that also rulers should not do so, such an agreement should be made upon their arrival. I do not agree with Mrs Van Tongeren on this point in substance, and I keep trying to state this. If we're going to narrow everything down, because we might think that someday something might go wrong, I think we're going to rely on distrust. On the contrary, I think it is important that people bear their own responsibility, but that they can also be dealt with if something goes wrong. So I do not agree with Mrs Van Tongeren on this point, but if a majority of the Chamber wants to do so, we must agree in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	I, along with Mr Lea Bouwmeester, have presented a nice lobby proposal to the Chamber and I believe that this is something that is more exciting. Last May, Minister Dijsselbloem gave an interview in which he addressed this and said that politicians themselves should ensure that they observe the cooling-off period, because it removes all appearances of conflict of interest. How does the Minister view this? Would it not be wiser if she said that after this period she did not go directly to work on something where even a appearance of conflict of interest could arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	As a result of a rumor about my possible position, I must now answer the question of what would be wise for the cabinet and for all the rulers, but I naturally like to talk about it with the Chamber. I think it is up to everyone at this point to decide what to do or not to do. If you are going to tell us that you first take a six-month sabbatical, there will be another discussion, namely that we are here at the State's expense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	I can't wait to see Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	Again: everything is of course individual. You're usually only going to focus on the outside world when you quit a job, just so you're not talking about a job during your job with your own field. That independence must be maintained and that is why this often happens only after a function. Then at that point you have to assess whether or not it's right to do it, or whether or not you should do it later. I don't know if three or six months make much difference. It's much more about the following question: have I ever done anything in relation to this company, which has made the company better after that, and am I going to work there as a result? Then you've got an issue. But if you have just made policies that have been in the Chamber and have been subject to democratic control, then everyone has been able to see it and it was transparent and open. If you then work on the basis of your expertise somewhere, it is actually the same as with all kinds of other jobs in this life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
