ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. This is the second time that this bill has been dealt with. We discussed this extensively with the Minister in July or June, so before the summer. This bill has a long history. I think it's very simple: everyone just wants their child to be able to cycle safely to school every morning and everyone wants to avoid all traffic accidents. That is why we have introduced a tractor licence, because we are dealing with large vehicles of 12 metres long, 4 metres high and 3 metres wide. The VVD agreed to that. The VVD has also agreed to ensure that the bike paths can be separated from the regular roads, so that the tractors can drive on them and no cyclists can meet them. That too is good for road safety. However, the VVD has great difficulty with this proposal. This proposal has been going on for a long time and the majority of the Chambers have always exchanged views on this issue. This introduces a registration requirement for all tractors and all trailers. We still have the big question of what this will do. Is this not purely and simply a burden on industry, on the agricultural sector and on fruit producers? What's this for? Does this strengthen road safety? Even after the first deadline, we are still not convinced of this. We have also tabled a number of amendments, including with colleagues. We will hear the Minister's response to this later, but we do not see any added value in this legislative proposal for the time being. The line of the VVD has always been clear: support for the tractor licence and for the separation of tractor traffic and cyclists as much as possible, but not so much for this bill. As a result of the amendments we have tabled, we also have a number of questions. After all, we have received reports that there are still some questions from business. For example, there are fears that the requirements of this bill will apply not only to new vehicles but also to existing ones. Perhaps the Minister can make a commitment on that point already. I am referring in particular to trailers with an anti-air system. I didn't make that up; that's really what it's called. Those trailers would also be covered by this bill from 2017. The question is whether this applies only to the new trailers or also to the existing ones. We are pleased that the Minister confirmed in her first term that this bill does not mean that it can also apply road taxes to trailers of this type or tractors. I think it would be good to confirm this in this Chamber as well. It is good that yesterday we received a letter of amendment on the pick-up trains. There was an amendment tabled by Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP, which was also signed by the VVD and Mr Van Helvert. Mr Bishop is not here right now, but it is a good thing that this letter of amendment is there. We may therefore withdraw that amendment, but perhaps the SGP can explain it itself. There have been some amendments. We are maintaining them, including the amendment on how to deal with alcohol in traffic. We had a discussion on that last time. Perhaps the Minister can respond to that, but if there is a further discussion on the subject and because this is the second time, I shall table a motion on the same subject. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that driving under the influence endangers road safety;]] [[Whereas there is already an increased risk of serious injury at a rate of 0.8 promille and an extremely increased risk at 1.2 promille;]] [[noting that the current recidivism is based on a standard of 0.1 promille above the lower limit of the extremely increased risk category, namely 1.3 promille;]] [[considers that this does not adequately address the seriousness and associated risks of alcohol consumption in traffic and the objective to increase road safety by tackling drunk driving;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the legal threshold for declaring the driving licence invalid in the event of a recidivism to 0.8 promille and to initiate legislative and regulatory adjustment as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34397-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	We have discussed the content of the legislative proposal in detail in the first term and in greater detail earlier. I will not repeat that, but Mrs Visser is now touching on something that is essential for the follow-up to the introduction of this law, namely a number of amendments that are alien to the law. I filed one, too. We have received an answer from the Minister. This answer may give rise to the withdrawal of the amendments and the adoption of an initiative law in the area of alcohol and traffic, which is very important. In doing so, we will also ensure that this law is able to follow the course as it should be. Firstly, because of the European obligation, but secondly because there are 15 road deaths a year to be regretted. Mr President, I am now addressing Mrs Visser directly. Mrs Visser, if I were to come up with such a proposal and give you the space to put forward your proposals, would you be prepared to go along with it despite the fact that we disagree with the tractor registration? We want to help this country forward. We have done so as parties on many dossiers which are quite different. Are you willing to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	This is almost a declaration of love and it's not even February 14th. As Mr Hoogland says, we can always withdraw amendments. I have not filed a motion for nothing now. Not only Mr Hoogland, but Kamerbreed has been mentioned more often about alcohol in traffic. Somehow, there's no progress in this file. He has therefore tabled an amendment. I shall hold on to the amendment for a while. I await the Minister's reply and will look into what we are doing with the amendments in this debate. I didn't file a motion for nothing. I have heard Mr Hoogland's appeal, including the suggestion that a joint proposal be submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	If this had been a marriage proposal, I would have felt rejected, because I do not hear a full yes. Given that this is not the case, I can see an opening. The keeper wins and I won't push too much. I think we are doing the right thing to do as Mrs Visser proposes. The only difference is that it is leaving the amendments above the market for a while now, and that is its right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mrs Visser, would you like to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	The Minister says that I am now repeating through the microphone that she is still missing a proposal on her knees. Mr Hoogland has already done that to someone else, and I think that is going very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	For the Acts: I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	On your knees or not, of course, that's the question. I'm going back to the content of this bill. I have just said that the VVD has serious doubts about this bill. It has already indicated in the debate that if we want agricultural traffic to be safe on the roads around the cities and through the villages, we must ensure that it can travel on the normal road as quickly as possible. With the current maximum speed of 25 km/h on an 80 km/h road... You can already see it: you drive 80 km/h and you have to hit the brake full because there is a tractor with 25 km/h ahead of you. That's dangerous. As far as we're concerned, that speed is going up as fast as possible. Since we mainly need provinces and municipalities to do so, I shall table the next motion. This may also be a push for the Minister to get to work. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the maximum permissible speed for tractors is currently 25 km/h;]] [[noting that this has led to the closure of crucial roads for agricultural traffic and that these roads are mostly owned by local and provincial road managers;]] [[calls on the Government to make the speed increase possible for tractors and to agree, as soon as possible, with road managers, in particular municipalities and provinces, on the opening up of roads to agricultural traffic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34397-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	One point that has persisted after the first period of this debate is the question of why it is necessary to introduce a registration requirement for all tractors and all trailers. We have an EU obligation to enter into force next year, which concerns the apk obligation for tractors and trailers. With the CDA and the SGP in the first period, we have focused on the question of why this introduction is being chosen and how we can ensure that we get as slow as possible. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that in her reply. As we proceed with the introduction of a registration requirement, there are concerns. I have already stated that the VVD Group does not support this, but if this proposal were to receive a majority in the Chamber, I would ask how we will ensure that we keep these burdens as low as possible, both with regard to the registration numbers and the administrative burden. There are concerns about this in the sector. I believe that everyone in this Chamber recognizes that the sector is currently struggling because of all kinds of factors. We do not want this proposal to lead to an enormous increase in costs. Can the Minister confirm that she is going to introduce this as much as possible in terms of both financial and administrative burdens?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. That was quite a situation the last time we tried to conclude the first instance of this consultation. There are always surprising more or minorities on this file. There were also two amendments which were not directly related to this proposal. At that time it was decided to stop for a while and to move forward at another time, if the unrest had failed. This has a long history. For ten years the legal obligation to ensure that agricultural vehicles have a registration number has been worked on. I can tell you that the CDA has looked at it with fresh reluctance. Our criticisms have been consistent all these years. They can be summarized as follows. Firstly, road safety is determined by sensible and competent drivers, not by a picture on a tractor. Secondly, physical measures are more effective than paper measures. We're working on that last one right now. Thirdly, this is again a considerable burden on the agricultural sector and a step towards an even greater burden increase. Fourthly, rule no more than what Europe must necessarily do. Those four points are still like a house. I am not going to repeat all the arguments we have given at first. However, I repeat the point that road safety is mainly determined by sensible and competent drivers, not by a registration number on a tractor. So let's get some experience with the tractor driver's license before we do this now. But then there is the question of whether Europe should do so. This is not something Europe should do at all. The registration requirement is based on the European licence requirement for tractors, with a maximum cost of more than 40 km/h. That is what Europe is asking for. The Directive should be implemented by 20 May 2017. The apk obligation will enter into force on 20 May 2018. The question remains whether we should have license plates for that. Actually, that's not a question, because that's absolutely unnecessary. It is certain that there must be a registration system that is limited to the fast tractor. That is what Europe is asking for. So now that the bill brings all tractors underneath, there is a headline on European rules. That is an unnecessary head, and hence our amendment. The VVD has tabled a similar amendment; perhaps we can turn these two into one amendment. In all our general discussions, we are trying to avoid additional headlines on European policy. All parties will be in favour of that. But for our own farmers, the primary sector, we are suddenly going to put our heads on top of it. In the last sentence of its letter of 7 July, the Minister says: if the House of Representatives nevertheless decides not to introduce the law or later, I must regulate another form of registration in order to comply with the directive. The CDA's fine with that. Actually, that would be the best solution. We have always advocated a practical and simple implementation structure: to meet EU requirements, but not additional rules in the Netherlands; to keep transition costs as low as possible; to minimise administrative burdens. I've got two more motions. The first is about the speed of the tractors. Under the current traffic rules, the maximum speed applicable to agricultural or forestry tractors in traffic is 25 km/h, despite the higher construction speeds. We would like agreement to be reached with the road managers on the maximum speed and on safety through lot access and logistics agricultural routes. Not the license plate, but the physical conditions make it safer. If the cabinet really wanted to do something about road safety, it should not have reversed the use of the alcohol lock, for example. Then the cabinet shouldn't take all the enforcers off the road. The cabinet does all that: no alcohol lock and the enforcers of the road. A small minority, the agricultural sector, now suddenly has to save road safety, while SWOV's research shows that you have to start keeping up with the figures properly in order to be able to determine that. None of that's gonna happen to this cabinet. I'm reading two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas driving licences for agricultural vehicles are part of a broader package of measures to improve road safety;]] [[Whereas a number of these measures, including improved access to access to access roads and bypasses for agricultural vehicles, require the explicit commitment of road managers (provinces and municipalities);]] [[calls on the Government to conclude a covenant with road managers and industry on increasing the speed limit for agricultural vehicles to 40 km/h and improving access to access to access to access roads and bypasses for agricultural vehicles;]] [[calls on the Government to bring municipalities into line with the automated system of the National Road Traffic Authority in order to obtain exemptions at a low threshold and inexpensive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34397-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	I have another motion in which I give two examples, good examples from Friesland and Zeeland. I could have mentioned other beautiful provinces, but I would like to mention others. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas road safety with regard to tractors can be improved by adapting lot access and logistics agricultural routes such as the "agricultural path" in Friesland and Zeeland;]] [[Whereas the provinces of Zeeland and Friesland have developed the idea of so-called logistics agricultural routes, resulting in a (regional) quality network for the smooth and secure handling of agricultural traffic;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, in line with the example of the "agricultural paths" in Friesland and Zeeland, a plan to promote the rural development of such paths,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34397-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	Farmers really need to be recognised as being there. That's what you notice when you talk to LTO and especially when you talk to farmers who are hard at work. The worst thing is that the cabinet says to the farmers that they will receive this recognition if they agree with this measure, but the recognition is not in a picture or recognition either. You don't have to do that anymore. That is why the EU is asking for registration rather than registration. Through this cabinet action you get a contrast between the employees and the farmers. They have different interests and it is precisely because of this that they are more or less played out against each other. I think that's a really bad thing. They're pretending farmers need this license plate, but they don't. We must not talk to farmers about this either, because farmers can work very hard for it themselves. Let me make a final remark. Dear Cabinet, do no more than Europe demands. Get the registration and just let the farmers work hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Hoogland has the floor as the last speaker in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the legislative proposal for the introduction of the tractor registration, which was called for in the Kuiken motion in 2013. Much has already changed in the first term of the Chamber. The Minister's written replies were received in a indeed memorable first term. I was allowed to chair them myself; that was a great challenge. I have a few more questions. We have already asked questions about the increase in speed, but the answers were not clear enough. That is why I ask again how the increase in speed is now taking shape. The Minister was not yet clear on this in her reply. I would also like the Minister to comment on the consequences of not going through this law or of going through this law, including the strange amendments. Then we have a picture of the consequences of the actions we are taking in the Chamber. Finally, I note that LTO Netherlands, the agricultural organisation, supports the proposal. As far as I am concerned, this is proof that there is support for this proposal in the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr. Chairman. This is a file with a long history. The draft legislative proposal for the registration of tractors is based on the Chicken motion (29398, No. 356), submitted in 2013. I have heard the CDA say on several occasions that the cabinet is doing this to a particular sector, but I would like to point out that there was no cabinet proposal in this case. It was really a request from the Chamber. As a result, we have worked out this bill. In the meantime, there have been new cases, such as the European decision to introduce an obligation on the part of the cabinet, which has meant that it wants to pursue this, but it has really been an initiative of the Chamber. That's what we always listen to, if it's okay. The most important thing of the law is that I have been asked to identify categories of tractors and agricultural vehicles to be appointed in the interests of road safety and equal conditions of competition. The registration requirement for vehicles also improves enforcement in the case of speeding offences, red light driving, overloading and the like. Vehicle safety will also be improved, not for existing tractors, which are registered through a very light procedure, but for the new ones. At present, infringements can only be detected at standing positions, but in the future this can also be done electronically, with speed cameras and through registry comparisons on, for example, the apk and exemptions. So it's not a paper exercise: you can really do something with it in practice. You can now also regulate the increase of the maximum speed to 40 km/h under lower regulations, because technical fitness and enforcement are also regulated immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u17	This argument is always used, but I would like to ask a very clear question. The Minister gives a number of examples of violations, such as overloading. Can the Minister indicate how they can be maintained through registration? In our view, this should still be done through police standing. There is the question of how we can ensure that enforcement is put in place, precisely because of the standing positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u18	It's mostly about speeding violations. You can see it on the basis of electronic perception; then you can immediately make a flash of the license plate. It may also be about the heaviness, but that depends on what has been realized in the way. You can see it in trucks that are placed on the plate, but then you already have to deal with standing position. For speeding offences, however, you can do so at a distance, as we do with cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u19	I'm very curious how fast tractors will be allowed to drive. On provincial roads there is a speed of 80 km/h. I don't have the idea that tractors will be allowed to drive 80 km/h. They may not even exceed 50 km/h, even later, after the speed increase, because the speed increase goes up to 45 km/h. What does a registration requirement add to enforcement in traffic, if enforcement on this file is actually to be done through standing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u20	If this bill is passed, they can drive 40 km/h. We say: on the one hand, a license plate also means an increase in speed on the other. I believe that at the time there was a motion from the CDA aimed at increasing speed. You can see that. You can just see how fast a vehicle is going. You can then determine on the basis of a license plate whether it is also permitted to drive the vehicle for 40 km/h. So much for my introduction to this bill. Part of the House is asking: if you refer to the European legislation around the cup that was added later, do you have to? A number of spokesmen say: we are not really in favour of plates, but we still want to look at them in relation to the apk file. Are you going to do that for all these trucks and is there not a European headline on this? Again, it's two different things. On the one hand, there is a proposal from the Chamber asking for safety marking and also for speed increases. On the other hand, there is a request from Europe for an apk for tractors. My conclusion is that this is the easiest form to take on the basis of nuclear drawings. As I said during the general consultation, other models and other forms are also possible. But we have said that we are using license plates because we also have a request from the Chamber to introduce that registration. This is also how our preparation process has gone. The DMV is almost finished with the registration number for tractors, because, following the bill I submitted to the Chamber, we would initially start the registration of tractors and mobile machines on 1 January 2017. According to the RDW, the cost of such a registration is around 4.4 million. If you would only enter it for tractors that can drive faster than 40/h, you should be sure that you can register up to 7,000 vehicles along this road. If you do, it is divided over 7,000 tractors, which amounts to about $800 per vehicle. So I really wouldn't want to do that. If you flip it over all tractors and mobile machines, it costs about €18 per license plate. The owners of the vehicles have almost unanimous support for the tractor registration. Mr Van Helvert asked in the previous consultation whether LTO could now agree with this. LTO has now indicated that it supports this, along with all the other organisations I have mentioned before. LTO even called on the Chamber to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u21	That cost calculation is actually one of the scariest things in this cabinet. The cabinet says the cost is 4.4 million. If you divide that amount by a lot of vehicles, it's very little per vehicle. If you divide that amount of 4.4 million by much less vehicles, the cost per vehicle is higher. That's one of those calculations on the back of a cigar box. If you do that differently, if you only enter it for the vehicles that drive more than 40 km/h, then surely it is not possible for the RDW to indicate exactly the same cost as for all other vehicles? Why don't we get an exact calculation of the costs? Why don't we hear how much these costs would really be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u22	It's just about creating a system. Creating a license plate system costs 4.4 million. If you can turn that over a lot of tractors and vehicles, that is a totally different amount than when you can turn that over very few vehicles. The cabinet has the policy that has to be something cost-effective. The CDA has always been in favour of this. Then you can say: then we do not enter the registration system, but then we enter another system, for example a registration system. I have already indicated that there will also be costs involved. That too will be expensive and complicated when it comes to a small group. That is probably not what we will have achieved in May 2018, so we will have to deal with Europe again. So there are different elements coming together. Mr Van Helvert's concern was that the sector did not want us to spend it on them. We have already indicated that TLN, Bouwend Nederland, CUMELA, Fedecom and BMWT have sent a letter of fire stating that they are for the license plate. Recently, LTO has also explicitly joined. In response to the debate and to the questions of the Chamber, they said they were in favour. I quote Jakob Bartelds, portfolio holder of the LTO Environment, who writes in his column on the LTO site: "We call on politicians in The Hague to go along with the current proposals and not to delay the introduction of registration requirements for agricultural vehicles." I don't think it could be any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u23	That is a good time for the second part of Mr Van Helvert's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u24	The reactions of the farmers themselves to that column were also very interesting. They said otherwise. My interruption was about the cost. I wonder how it works. This is about the Minister's thoughts. It has been said that the system costs the same amount of money, but I wonder if that is true. I don't believe it, honestly. Anyway, let's assume it is. The idea is: the system is very expensive per vehicle; you know what, we catch more people. From the government it is driven as follows: we push more people into the system, because then it is not so expensive per vehicle. That's wrong for reason. It's about whether we want this or not. I would like to hear an answer from the Minister. Does she want to do this? She keeps saying, "I need this from the Chamber." But does she really want to do this? As a minister, is she convinced that these plates are going to save the farming sector in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u25	I have always been very clear about the fact that, as far as I am concerned, the registration of tractors did not have to be introduced. The Chamber told me: Madam Minister, you are wrong; you must do so. Then there was a debate in Europe about the apk. We have also had the debate on this with each other. Until the last minute, I opposed the introduction of a single currency for all kinds of components and sectors. I have managed to do a great deal, but for tractors I have not managed to prevent the introduction of a cock. In the meantime, there is another proposal from Europe to register or sign tractors above a certain speed. The combination of the Court's request for a legislative proposal to allow road safety registration and the European obligation to do so for tractors capable of driving more than 40 km/h has led me to say: if you have to do so, this is the best system to do it. We've been working on it for a while. We're entering it, too. I know that Mr Van Helvert's party, like my party, has serious doubts about the registration. But at another time, if Mr Van Helvert had tabled a proposal and there was a minority in the Chamber who did not want it, he would also say that I simply had to do my job. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the cost side. Of course, it is important to keep costs as low as possible. Mrs Visser asked whether the registration was not merely a burden increase. The industry parties have indicated massively that they see the advantages of marking, including financial benefits. After all, there are also financial benefits. The costs, after we have looked at them again and together, have become minimal, namely about €30 per vehicle. I understand very well that every euro in a sector that is struggling is very difficult. But in the end, the road managers also said: if you go up to 40 km/h, you must also have registration. That is the advantage that the sector will gain in the registration. Mrs Visser also asked about a registration requirement for existing trailers, and specifically with regard to the air pressure systems for existing trailers. The registration requirement applies to trailers which may be more than 25 km/h, but no more stringent technical requirements will be imposed on air pressure systems for existing trailers. Mr Hoogland asked how the speed increase would take shape. This is the speed increase to 40 km/h for tractors with a maximum construction speed of more than 25 km/h on 1. roads outside the built-up area and 2. roads within the built-up area with a free-standing cycle path or with a maximum speed of 70 km/h or c. are closed to cyclists. It's a bit of a complicated answer. This is regulated in the RVV 1990, but it is also coordinated with road managers. The road managers have indicated that, at the time the registration is arranged, they will participate in the speed increase. Mrs Visser asks why we are not only doing tractors that run faster than 40 km/h. This also has to do with the relationship with the decentralised road managers. In 2014, they indicated their intention to introduce the increase in speed only in conjunction with a broad registration requirement because they can check and maintain the registration numbers with the help of the registration numbers. If only the fast tractors are known, then we do not know of the other tractors if they are suitable for driving so fast. The speed increase for only the fast tractors is also not meaningful because it is a very small group. In fact, I expect road managers, when they do not continue to sign up, to close down certain roads for agricultural traffic, because enforcement is still not sufficiently possible than to extend only to this small group the number of roads where it is permitted, as Mrs Visser is actually trying to do with her question. They'll turn it around sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u26	What agreements have been made with the decentralised road managers? The Chamber has requested an evaluation of the T-driving licence for the entry of the tractor registration. I have not yet seen this evaluation, but what agreements have been made with road managers on increasing speed? They may be making all kinds of demands, but the Chamber has also provided a number of frameworks. I have the impression that the Minister is now focusing on the frameworks of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u27	They have simply indicated that, at the time when they are driven faster than 25 km/h, they want something that they can maintain. That's the license plate in this case. That is a logical and correct remark from the local authorities. The Chamber has asked me to ensure that this can be introduced or opened in as many places as possible. In this respect, I go further than the opinions. The discussion was held six months ago, but then I indicated that, by way of derogation from the opinion, I intended to allow 40 km/h on roads within the built-up area with a free bike path. It's the list I just mentioned. It concerns roads outside the built-up area and roads within the built-up area, with a free-standing cycle path, where a maximum speed of 70 km/h already applies or which are closed to cyclists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u28	We continue to disagree on the strengthening of enforcement in this respect. We have a maximum speed for each vehicle. There won't be a separate flash pole for tractors only. The Minister states that if you only make an exception for tractors that can be faster than 40 km/h, the costs will increase substantially. The license plate system costs 4.4 million. Can the Minister inform us by letter of the exact costs? Why does it cost so much money? Why can't the cost calculation be done in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u29	I've indicated before that if you don't create a registration system, for example, if you create a registration system, you'll get other costs. This is what making such a system costs. I can find out what's known about the cost. Maybe it's so recorded that it's insightful for the Chamber, but I don't know. I'm gonna take a look at that. The same goes for a soft ice cream machine. If you only make ice cream with that once, it's a very expensive ice cream. If you use it to make endless amounts of ice creams, the machine is getting cheaper per ice cream. That's how the system works. The same applies to the creation of a government system. You need to get software for computers. I need you to get me registration. You've got to do a lot of things for it. There's a cost to that. It has a certain height. If you only print out one license plate from that, then of course it has a very different price than when you run thousands of license plates. That is always my argument to the Chamber. I think that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u30	Can I ask the Minister to send the letter she mentioned before the votes to the Chamber? I am also asking this because we are already over time for this debate. I want to speed up the debate, because we have a very busy day ahead of us. I do not know whether that will remove Mr Van Helvert's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u31	No, Mr. Chairman, not really. I'll be very brief, but of course it's a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u32	Maybe the Minister can answer the question I asked first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u33	I just indicated that I do not know how quickly that can be made clear, but I am doing my best to send further information to the Chamber on the cost of a system versus the amount of lots that can use it. Then I will also add information about what an alternative system might be, for example registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you on behalf of the Chamber. I call Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u35	The minister came up with the example of the ice cream machine. If you make one with it, that ice cream is very expensive. That's why we suggest: don't buy that machine and get the ice cream somewhere in a store. The Minister constantly says: I do not want it myself, but the Chamber has instructed me to do so. We have three speakers here in the Chamber. Two of them don't want the relevant. The SGP is also a fierce opponent. The SGP is normally always there, but since it is a small fraction, none of the groups can be here now. Only the Labour Party will. The Minister doesn't want it either, so I say don't do it. Go first to make arrangements with the local authorities. First, do what SWOV says: keep those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u36	Your question, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u37	Why do you not say: we wait until we have all the information and agreements and only then will we see if it is really necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr Van Helvert's question is clear to me. He's calling me not to. The fact that there are now two opposing parties here, while the others, who are in favour, are not present, does not change the voting relationship in the Chamber. Again, the Chamber has asked me to implement this law. I worked it out and worked out a system. Now is the time to make a decision. Let me now turn to Mr Hoogland's last question, and then I will move on to the motions and amendments as soon as possible. Mr Hoogland asked me what the consequences of continuing the strange amendments were. I have already discussed this in detail in the AO, so I can be brief now. You can all imagine that, if there are strange amendments in the law, the First Chamber will ask the Council of State for advice, with delay. This means non-timely compliance with the requirement for tractors, and so we run the risk of an infraction by the European Union. It's just gonna cost us money. I have heard from Members of Parliament who have tabled these strange amendments that they would like matters to be settled in other areas in other laws. I really hope that in the vote they will reconsider whether this is the place to do so or whether there are better ways of achieving that. It means I have to withdraw the bill or I have to go to the Council of State. That's not gonna help this. In her motion in part No. 22 Mrs Visser asks the government to back up her amendments, so as to ensure that the legal minimum limit for declaring the driving licence invalid is reduced to 0.8 alcohol promille in the event of a recurrence, and that the legislative and regulatory adjustment is initiated. Of course, I had a quick contact with the Ministry of Security and Justice. It is indicated that the implementation of the recidivism is not in order. The scheme is in the process of being adapted. In order to extend it now before the implementation has improved, they are not recommended. Perhaps Mrs Visser can hold the motion until a better time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u39	I'm thinking about that for a while, but I'm surprised. The recidivism has been in force for a long time. It's a policy change. The fact that implementation is not in order is another discussion. Then I think, take it with me at once. If you're going to change everything, you might as well make this policy change. Soon we will be told: we have just put things in order and now we are getting this, which costs more money. I'd like to pass this on to the Minister. I know she speaks on behalf of V and J, but I think this is a bit of the reverse. The Chamber calls for a policy change. We are going to have all kinds of implementation discussions which, as far as the Chamber is concerned, should simply be resolved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u40	I hear Mrs Visser and I will pass on her feelings. In my opinion, there was also a proposal to Mr Hoogland's VVD of the PvdA to raise together on a number of issues related to this issue. I also liked the fact that Mrs Visser is dressed in red today and Mr Hoogland in blue. I see all kinds of new stitches in there. In her motion in part No. 23 Ms Visser asked the cabinet to allow a speed increase for tractors and to agree as soon as possible with road managers, in particular municipalities and provinces, on the opening up of roads to agricultural traffic. The road managers have made it very clear that they do not agree with the increase in speed if the registration does not continue. Mrs Visser is always clear about that. On the contrary, it is expected that they will be closing roads for tractors earlier. The reason for this is that the maintenance of these fast tractors is almost impossible for them. I therefore advise against this motion, which calls for a different path. Not until I've made the registration possible, I'm gonna sit down with the road managers. Then I come to the motion on part No. 24 by Mr Van Helvert. He asked the government to conclude a covenant with road managers and industry on increasing the speed limit. He also asked the government to bring municipalities into line with the automated system of the National Road Traffic Agency. I believe that this motion is based on the same variant as the motion-Visser in part No. 23 did. We need to get the license plate ready before we can sit down with the various municipalities and road managers, so I'm also dissuading this motion. There are elements in it that we can certainly do if the registration continues, but this is now separate from that, because the same was true for the earlier motion. So I'm deceiving the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 25 by Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u41	First of all, Mrs Visser has a question about Mr Van Helvert's previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u42	Yeah, and my own, because those two do look alike. I'm having trouble with this anyway. In the past, the Chamber has adopted motions on the opening up of roads. On the contrary, the Minister has been called upon to do as much as possible to separate traffic in the context of road safety. I am now told in the Minister's reply that local authorities want registration and that until then they do not want to do anything to increase road safety and to ensure that these roads are set up in a safe manner. I really think that's the wrong order. The Minister dissuaded that motion, but what is happening now, is my specific question, to ensure that we can separate those traffic flows in order to increase road safety? In my view, that is where the big problem lies, and I see no action in it. I see only unwillingness from the local authorities on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u43	It is very clear: the local authorities are always working on security. They will therefore do so on the basis of the current maximum speed of 25 km/h. Mrs Visser asked the cabinet in her motion to allow a speed increase for tractors and to make agreements with the municipalities on opening up. You can't make that speed possible if you're not gonna get the registration on the other side as well. It is perfectly logical that these two are connected. When local authorities work on security, they do so on the basis of the current formal speed limit. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 25 by Mr Van Helvert on agricultural paths. I'll advise against that motion, but I'll see what I can do in consultation with the provinces. It's a county responsibility, so I'm not gonna guarantee it. I think the idea and the wish make sense, but I think it goes too far to make a plan on my side. That's why I dissuade the motion, but I'll deal with them. I come to the two amendments that I had not yet commented on. I had already commented on two previous amendments. I shall begin with the Van Helvert amendment to item No. 21. I would advise against this amendment. This amendment would not provide for tractors which do not comply with the GPS Directive. The result will be an intergroup procedure for late implementation. My whole point was that I am not in favour of it. The amendment in part No. 20 of Mr Visser and Mr Van Helvert did not deal with this proposal but with another legislative proposal. The legislative proposal for the registration of agricultural and forestry tractors attempts to introduce an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Administrative Enforcement Act. This amendment does not coincide with the registration requirement for agricultural and forestry tractors. It was previously filed with the bill on police record keeping. Mrs Oosenbrug's similar amendment, which extends the maximum period from four to eight months, was adopted by the Chamber. There is therefore now a legislative proposal before the First Chamber to ensure that decisions can be sent out to foreign registration holders for a longer period of time. In his letter of 8 November, my colleague, Mr V and Mr J, warned against the indirect distinction made by the amendment between foreign registration holders who can and cannot be identified by automated means. He has said a lot more about that, but I'm gonna let that all go now, given the time. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 20. I regret that there is so much amendment to other laws through this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u44	I get that. The amendment should simply have been put to the vote on the other legislative proposal, but it did not happen because of one mistake. That was because of the Minister's statement: the discussion about which amendment was more far-reaching, that of Mrs Oosenbrug or that of Mr Van Helvert and myself. Since it has not been put to the vote, we are doing so now, so that it can also be involved in the legislative proposal that lies with the Upper House. That is not so much a question as I would like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u45	I thank the Minister and the Chamber. We have come to the end of the discussion of this bill. The votes on this will be on Tuesday.
