ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Three speakers have come forward. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group. As usual, Members have two minutes' speaking time per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Criminal cases are increasingly being dealt with quickly, sometimes by the prosecution, or otherwise through the so-called ZSM procedure. Speed is good, but it has to be about legal care. We need to ensure appropriate legal process. The legal aid of a lawyer plays an important role in this. On two points, I was not satisfied with the general discussion. The first concerns the fair reward for the lawyer. Contrary to what the Minister says, it is not just a question of ad hoc and relatively short-term legal aid. There should be fair compensation for legal aid, so that you do not pay too little, but not too much, to the lawyer. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights,]] [[Considering that as of 1 March 2016 suspects have the right to legal aid at all interviews at the picketing stage and therefore ad hoc and relatively short-term legal aid is not always present;]] [[Whereas the flat-rate allowances no longer address the situation as it occurs since 1 March 2016;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure adequate compensation for lawyers providing legal aid in the picket phase by compensating the actual hours or developing a system for the cases in question,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	There would be an intensification of legal aid, but it has been postponed. There's gonna be another investigation first. But what's against providing physical assistance during the investigation by an attorney present at the interrogation site? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an external office is examining various options for the organisation of consultation and interrogation assistance;]] [[considers that it is important that, at the time of the investigation, a standard consultation should be provided by means of physical legal aid, including for the purposes of the same investigation;]] [[invites the Government, during the investigation by the Minister of Security and Justice into the organisation of consultation and interrogation assistance, to provide for a standard consultation by a lawyer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-363]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to discuss today a topic that was not mentioned in the general consultation. That was not possible either, because it comes from the examination of the Economic Affairs budget. It is a commitment from the Secretary of State to my esteemed colleague Graus, but he would take it up with the Minister of V and J. I am using this time to inform the Minister of what has emerged from it, and I would like to make a request to that effect. It concerns an amendment tabled by my colleague. At that time, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, as I said, undertook to consult with the Minister of V and J. It's about a so-called Veterinary Forensic team. A sum has been set aside for this in the amendment. This has resulted in the commitment to a consultation. I'd like to hear from the Minister that he's going to speak to the Secretary of State. In order to maximise the chances of success, I would like to take this opportunity to give the Minister some points of interest. In our opinion, it would be a good thing if that Veterinary Forensic team were included in the NFI. The "veterinary animal part" you can call it so beautiful. But under a few conditions, because you have to watch out for unnecessary bureaucracy. The requirements for humanitarian pathology should not be maintained. The reason for these conditions is that otherwise it will cost an unnecessary amount of money. The amount reserved for this amendment is then exceeded and no one wants it. It would also be an idea to use so-called advanced posts for conducting research, after which, if necessary, it could be scaled up to the NFI. That's what's happening in DNA testing now. A small part of that is done by the police in certain cases. The Minister knows that example. That's also cost-effective. I will conclude with a request to the Minister. Is he prepared to include these points in the consultation with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and to inform the Chamber about them at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm making a small suggestion to add something to that. Can the Minister answer this in the evaluation of the restraining ban that we are discussing and on which there is another debate? We can then deal with the restraining order on animals at once. I would like at least to receive the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	If the Minister does not object, my group does not think that is a problem. As long as Mr Graus remains on the lead, because he has been working on this for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to ask a single question in response to the letter received by the Chamber at the end of the general consultation on criminal matters. The Minister announced a business case in which he wanted to explore various possibilities for the organisation of consultation and interrogation assistance. What room is there to take the opportunity, or to explore, in that business case that in the long run could also provide legal aid to others other than lawyers? If that does not fit in with this particular business case, is there another opportunity for the Minister to ask for this to be further developed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Minister states that he can start his reply immediately. The Chamber is always extremely pleased about this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber who have spoken in response to a very good and constructive general discussion. I can see that the Members of Parliament have noticed that my vote is still not in order. I will do my utmost to remain intelligible. In the Van Nispen motion in part No. 362 the Government is invited to provide adequate compensation for lawyers providing legal aid. I can reassure Mr Van Nispen on that point. A comprehensive study has been carried out into whether the average interview time during the picket phase was sufficient to cover the flat-rate allowances for this purpose. The answer to that was that this is the case. Sometimes a little more and sometimes a little less is paid out, but the investigation shows that it is the case on balance. I then said in general consultation with Mr Van Nispen and other Members that I think it is important to continue monitoring this. That will be done by the WODC. If then there is reason to make changes to it, that will of course be considered. Finally, in the direction of Mr Van Nispen, I would like to point out that the President of the Court of First Instance spoke on exactly the same subject. The President of the Court of First Instance said that the current remuneration, based on the information we have, is sufficient. Not only the judge, but also the investigation shows that there is no reason to give this motion a different judgment than to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	The President of the Court of First Instance had to rely on the information available at the time, but there were no data at that time. At that time, the President of the Court of First Instance did not have the information necessary to know how many hours a lawyer is engaged in such an interrogation. That is the first point. The second point is that something has also changed. Since 1 March 2016, we have not only the consultation assistance, but also the interrogation assistance. So it is not just ad hoc and relatively short-lived, as the Minister, also in his letter, always stresses. It is precisely that interrogations within those three days and fifteen hours can sometimes be very long and intensive. You will no longer receive a fee of one and a half hours or three hours for the heavier things. I think the Minister knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	I really must correct Mr Van Nispen on this point. It is incorrect that Significant's investigation would not be based on any data. Then you can't do research either. The Court of First Instance is also not of such a nature in the Netherlands that, on the basis of no investigation, as Mr Van Nispen suggests, he subsequently comes to a rejection of an action by an association of lawyers. In fact, what Mr Van Nispen says is not correct. The starting point of a flat-rate system is, of course, that it is sometimes a little more and sometimes a little less, but that it is right on balance. This is monitored by the WODC in all ways and in a careful manner. And if there is reason to do so on the basis of that monitor, it will be examined whether an adjustment is necessary. All the feelings of unrest and concern of Mr Van Nispen are therefore met. In doing so, there is no reason to advise on this motion other than to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	The motion in part No. 362 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	In the motion in part No. 363 the government is requested to provide a standard consultation by a lawyer during the investigation. Mr Van Nispen and I discussed this in detail in general. I have indicated to him that that is exactly one of the points that we are going to find out properly in the development of the business case. For that reason, I will also advise against this motion. Mr Van Oosten has asked whether there is the possibility in that business case to look at assistance from other than lawyers. I have expressly confirmed this in general consultation; this is also stated in the letter, which I sent to the Chamber prior to the general consultation. This is also in line with the opinion of the Wolfsen Committee, which states that the phase of the hearing and consultation assistance, in particular consultation assistance, can actually be done very well by a paralegal under the responsibility of a lawyer. I have discussed this with the Dutch Bar Association, which has asked me urgently not to decide at this stage. That's what I promised him. That is why I wrote in the letter that for the time being I believe that lawyers should provide that assistance. At the same time, I indicated in the business case to keep that option open for the investigation. I believe that this option should also be examined, because the Wolfsen Committee did not say this for nothing. I fully support Mr Van Oosten's request. Then I'll join the Veterinary Forensics team. I must say that I do not know the amendment tabled by Mr Graus of the PVV Group at the moment. I don't know what happened to that either. I would like to speak to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs on this matter. I have also discussed this with Mr Graus himself on many occasions. He also knows it's complicated. He also knows that there are doubts in the field. I have recently discussed this extensively with the animal police during a work visit that miraculously took place in my Chamber. That was the first work visit where I was allowed to work and the others came to visit. That is what I promised Mr Graus. They indicated, also from their expertise, that within the current range of veterinary forensic research there is actually enough capacity and quality available. Mr Graus has a different opinion on this, so I am happy to discuss it with the Secretary of State. I am therefore happy to include the points made by Mrs Helder in that discussion. I assume that the Secretary of State will then inform the Chamber of the outcome of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	This brings us to the end of this VAO criminal law issues. The two motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. In any case, the Minister will remain with us for much of this day, because after this we are going to deal with the proposal of the law of Mr Van Klaveren.
