ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	Good morning, everyone. I would like to welcome the Minister and the honourable Members. We hope to complete the discussion of this bill this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party attaches importance to achieving the objectives of the Energy Agreement. According to the National Energy Exploratory 2015 we are on track with energy savings in the area of living. Make no mistake, however: we are on schedule to make plans. Of course, I am asking for these plans to be implemented. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today can give this implementation a big boost. This law is also important for innovation, the promotion of more industrial building concepts and for employment. The introduction of an energy performance fee (epv) helps the projects aimed at making homes virtually energy neutral through insulation and energy generation. This results in considerable energy savings and increases the comfort of the home. The Labour Party embraced the De Stroomstaarde initiative as an appealing example of how zero-on-the-meter houses can be realized at a reasonable pace. De Stroomaccelerate has also been a model in the design of this law. The initiators are satisfied with the law and with the effect in the AMvB. The Labour Party is also satisfied, but of course there are still questions and comments. We assume that the epv will also be applicable to other projects for the same purpose as De Stroomaccelerate. We hear from the market that the use of the term "all electric" could not be applied to some solutions. Can the Minister respond to that criticism? We regret that projects involving collective energy production in the neighbourhood are not brought under this law. We ask the Minister to consider whether this can be made possible at a later date. Can he promise that? We note that the legislative proposal has moved away from the initial idea of De Stroomaccelerate, namely that the energy bill of the energy company will be replaced by an account of the cooperative for the adaptation of the home to a zero-on-the-meter house. However, the relationship with the energy companies is maintained and must be settled every year. Why did the Minister abandon the original, less bureaucratic idea? In order to support energy saving, it is important that the implementation of the approach to housing and the annual cost-benefit netting take place in a transparent manner. We are pleased that the bill provides for a good annual information provision by the landlords to the tenants. Of course, it is important that the theoretical calculations are consistent with the actual energy use. We are also pleased that the rental committee has been designated to deal with disputes. We still wonder whether this committee has sufficiently objective criteria which can be assessed in the assessment of disputes, other than the criteria of fairness and reasonableness. Will the Committee also consider the effects of the housing valuation system adapted to the EPV? Can the Minister clarify this? In fact, the radical approach of the house for the tenant, as well as more residential comfort, should also bring some financial benefit. We are shocked that the explanatory memorandum on the legislative proposal states that this cannot be guaranteed in all cases. We would like to draw the Minister's attention to the agreement made by Aedes and the House Union on this matter. That agreement concerns a guarantee of living expenses, which means that a tenant will not be guaranteed to pay for housing costs. In the light of the existing agreement, the adoption of this principle does not have to be contested. The Labour Party would therefore very much appreciate this principle being enshrined in the AMvB. We are considering tabling a motion on this point. The energy performance compensation is a prerequisite for the rapid and broad introduction of zero-on-the-meter houses. However, another condition is needed to fulfil the ambition of the Schouten/De Vries motion adopted by the Chamber: to ensure that all social housing units are as energy neutral in 2035. That condition is: clarity about the netting arrangement. The netting scheme states that one gets as much money for the energy supplied to the grid as one has to pay for energy taken from the grid. That scheme is guaranteed until 2020 and will be evaluated in 2017. The Labour Party understands that it may be necessary to abolish this arrangement. The fact that it is unknown to what level this austerity will take place makes corporations hesitate to make investments now. It also makes it difficult for them to secure loans with a maturity well beyond 2020. The Minister for Economic Affairs must give that clarity. We hope that this Minister will press again for urgency. It doesn't help if we solve one problem and leave the other too long; then those many plans, which are now ready, don't come off the ground. Finally. Not all homes are suitable to be adjusted to zero-on-the-meter houses. In some homes, such an investment is no longer viable. Label jumps are often still feasible for such homes. We have asked for it before, but we would like to see a scheme similar to the EPV applied to label jumps. How far along is the Minister with this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to put a question to Mr De Vries. Does Mr De Vries actually live in such a zero-on-the-meter house himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	Well, my label has improved considerably by having fourteen solar panels placed on my roof. So I'm gonna be a long way from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	Is Mr De Vries aware of the problems that often arise with this type of housing? This way the living comfort often does not rise, but it drops. In winter, people can be in the cold, in summer, in the heat. The ventilation can't work properly. Does he know that trouble? What should happen to all the people who have to deal with these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	We will discuss that problem later this year, when we talk about the new Quality Assurance Act for Building. Unfortunately, many mistakes are still made in construction and guarantees are often not respected. We believe that the builder should be able to be held liable much more often and that consumers, the users of the houses, should be taken care of if problems of this kind arise. So we agree on this, but I think we should discuss this in the other legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. We are now discussing the amendment of Book 7 BW in connection with the introduction of an Energy Performance Fee. In ordinary Dutch: as a tenant you get a better house, you get a much lower energy bill each month, and in return you pay something extra to your landlord. The VVD welcomes this bill and the introduction cannot go us fast enough. Landlords are finally given the opportunity to invest meaningfully in energy-saving measures and construction companies are eager to get started. These measures, for example, allow us to take major steps with the more than 2 million corporate homes in the Netherlands. That stock is quite uniform, with especially many terraced houses, which can be made energy neutral in a few days. But the bill goes further. Small landlords can also take advantage of this fee. It doesn't have to be zero on the meter right away. You're making a business decision. The landlord spends money on measures that really earn himself back, otherwise he can't pass them on to the tenant. It is not a question of subsidies and soft loans, but simply of a good deal: good for the environment, for the energy independence of the Netherlands, for the tenant and the landlord and not to mention for the Dutch construction sector. This does not mean that the VVD no longer has any comments on the bill. I would like to focus on two points. Firstly, the proposal is fully aimed at ensuring that the tenant really does not lose a penny on it. The energy performance fee is capped at €1.40 per m, the tenant does not suffer from fluctuations in the yield and the agreed energy performance fee can be reversed by the rental commission. The tenant is all very well-off, but compared to a store, the ratio is distorted. Those who buy a new building are faced with very strict requirements. An energy performance coefficient of 0.4..................................................................................................... It seems that energy policy may cost a little, but especially for people with their own homes. A property owner who wants to do something has no idea where to start, at the roof or at the floor or at the walls. No one can tell him. In a novelle on the Tax Plan, we have released 100 million for the sustainability of homes. Can we set up this scheme in such a way that the owners of new buildings benefit from it and that the payback period can be reduced? Then I come to my second point of attention. The right to rent doesn't get any clearer. We are now getting a combination of the energy performance compensation and the housing valuation system. This also gives points for the energy label. The Minister states that he will amend the Decree on rental accommodation accordingly. Can he tell us what that change is gonna look like? The VVD can imagine that we are taking energy measures all the way out of the housing valuation system and moving to the energy performance compensation. After all, as a tenant you already have a lower energy bill and it is illogical that you get rent allowance for that again. That seems to me to be free money, or does this once again lead to a complex discussion about the liberalization limit? Is the Minister prepared to reflect on a housing valuation system without an energy label and to inform the Chamber by letter? It would be worth the VVD a sweet thing if we were to greatly simplify the whole social rental right and include the rent allowance in it. Not so much to cut back, but above all to make it understandable to the people involved. We look forward to the ibo on rent surcharge. Does the Minister also consider whether energy-saving measures leading to high rents affect the affordability of the rent payment? If so, will solutions be found? These points of attention should not be a reason to delay the energy performance compensation. Let us make sure that landlords, investors and builders can get to work quickly so that we can also quickly meet the objectives of the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Sustainability is a spearhead for D66. One can think of protecting our beautiful dune landscape, improving air quality in the big cities and today's topic, namely making the built environment more energy efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	I hear Mr Koolmees talking about protecting our beautiful dune landscape, but it is his party that wants to build all those windmills right off the coast?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr Madlener could have read in Mr Kamp's plans that they are really being built off the coast, but indeed, we are also investing in renewable energy in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	I therefore ask Mr Koolmees to take back the words 'protecting our dune landscape'. What D66 mainly does is to ruin our landscape. When you walk on the beach, you look at a bunch of D66 windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	I don't think those windmills are built in the dunes. I'm moving on. In one case, you have to protect and create barriers for the sake of the environment, but in other cases, you have to take progressive action and remove barriers. The same applies to the rental market. The energy performance compensation will ensure that landlords who have been wanting to work with greening for a long time can now choose to do so. They are given a nice incentive to make their offer energy neutral and that is positive. Today's bill shows that sustainability can be combined with sensible economic decisions. In general, the D66 Group is therefore very positive about this bill. It is a good step in the direction of boosting energy saving and increasing living comfort, yes, Mr Madlener, for many Dutch people. I would like to thank the Minister and his officials for their comprehensive written answers to our questions. Many of the uncertainties have been removed. I have three points for today's debate. My first point concerns the question of whether tenants benefit from it enough. Mr De Vries also touched on this point. My second point concerns the extension to other arrangements, for example for office premises. My third point concerns a possible evaluation of the scheme. The bill is especially a step forward for landlords to really work with sustainability. However, my group is afraid that there is less incentive for tenants. As Mr De Vries said, there is a risk that the rents will go up. You still need the help of the tenants in order to make these big investments. The tenants are even because of this bill and in some cases they can also go down because the housing costs do increase. The support for these major investments could then be undermined. That is why I have the following question. Is it possible to share the proceeds that the landlord receives from making the housing offer sustainable between the landlord and the tenant? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then there is my second point. Greening the housing supply is an important step towards sustainability, but with only this step we are not there yet. Our country, for example, has many office buildings that are in no way energy-neutral and of which a large part is still empty. The Minister has already commented on this in the note on the report. For example, for office buildings converted into dwellings, does this rule apply, but does it also apply to normal office premises? Mr De Vries spoke just now about the postcode rose. It is now the case that energy saving measures linked to the property do count, but that does not apply to the possibilities associated with the postcode rose. My question is therefore whether enlargement is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Koolmees asks whether the profit of zero on the meter could not be better distributed. In my contribution, I asked whether it was not possible to guarantee that people would not suffer in housing costs. That goes less than Mr Koolmees' question, but would he be willing to support it? In my view, we agree on the fact that we do not need to be on the sidelines and that people should be able to make real progress and at least not go backwards, with the 75% needed to achieve planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	I will give a comprehensive answer because it is a complicated question. I agree with Mr De Vries that you need support. In fact, 70% of the tenants have to agree if you're gonna get this done. Then it doesn't help if the living expenses go up on balance, because then nothing will end up. So I agree with Mr De Vries. At the same time, I am also sensitive to the argument of living comfort and the predictability of the burdens. So it goes both ways. It is a question of achieving a win-win situation. How can you ensure that landlord and tenant benefit from this together? As Mr De Vries pointed out, Aedes and the House Union support the agreement to keep it right. I also think that this is really necessary for the support base, but I am also curious to know whether the Minister has any interesting points of view on this point in his reply later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	In my view, we do not disagree that the housing valuation system gives extra points for comfort and that this can lead to a small increase in rents. However, as far as energy consumption is concerned, the tenant should not be given a higher bill as far as we are concerned. That is also what the agreement between Aedes and the House Union indicates, which guarantees on an individual level that people should not go backwards on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	I agree with Mr De Vries. It is the complicated reality of different schemes that are added together. I will continue my speech. I would have stayed at the office premises and the zip code rose. My question to the Minister is whether it is possible to use the measures taken for rent as a blueprint for further measures that could be used, for example, in respect of office premises, to encourage energy savings. Much, of course, depends on the precise effect. The details of the energy performance fee shall be determined by General Measure of Management. My question is therefore when and when we are going to talk about it. The Minister is now making the gesture that he is already there... Or do I understand from him that he will be there soon? We'll hear from him later. My third point concerns the evaluation and effects of the legislative proposal. We hope, of course, that this bill will ensure that more investment is made to achieve energy savings and sustainability. That is why I ask the Minister to have this law reviewed within a number of years, for example in 2018, in order to assess its impact and to consider whether additional amendments are necessary. Sustainability is an extremely important issue in which major steps have been taken in recent years. This Minister himself has taken great steps in this respect, and I congratulate him on that. This bill is another step forward, but more is possible. Mr Van der Linde mentioned just now the 100 million from the envelope of the Tax Plan which is also being used for the built environment for private individuals. That seems to me to be a good development. As a group of D66 we will continue to urge this minister to continue with this work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Koolmees is such a huge fan of sustainability and, as usual, everything has to go to D66. Does Mr Koolmees himself live in such a zero-on-the-meter house? I suppose so, because he loves it so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	No, I don't live in a zero-on-the-meter house. In recent years, like Mr De Vries, I have invested heavily in energy saving, i.e. in double glazing, and I have isolated my floor and the floor, but not a zero-on-the-meter house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	I get that, because the reports about the comfort of that zero-on-the-meter house aren't good either. You probably know the message from the last few days in the Brabants Dagblad that a project in Tilburg has been very disappointing. The residents now have to heat their homes with petroleum heaters. A resident told the Brabants Dagblad to feel cheated. "The living expenses remain the same, but our enjoyment of living is gone and we have had a lot of trouble from the renovation, three months in the renovation and then in the cold." What do you think of that and why do you want to put all these other people on such a zero-on-the-meter house?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	I'm not denying these effects. I myself lived in a house a few years ago where there was the first generation of heat recovery facilities with all kinds of problems, which have been solved by the way. In addition to these signals, which I think are serious, which we must work on and which Mr De Vries just said we are going to talk about in detail later this year, there are, of course, a lot of signs that a lot of comfort is actually being achieved, with all the examples that we see. So let's talk about that in a nuanced manner when we deal with that bill, but above all we can see an incentive to move forward with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group wants more affordable social housing, but we want these new homes, as well as existing rentals, to be sustainable and future-proof. An energy-neutral home, so a home that doesn't have an energy bill, is good for the wallet and helps to protect the environment and make us independent of fossil fuels. The question is, however, whether the legislative proposal now before us is to promote energy-neutral housing in the right way and whether the tenant will not go backwards. The SP Group has serious doubts about this. For us, therefore, there are four concerns to which we would like explanations and commitments from the Minister to be given. Can the Minister promise that the draft law will be drawn up in such a way as to ensure that the tenant will not suffer from housing costs? We want more energy-neutral homes, but does this happen even if the tenant doesn't notice or almost doesn't notice any of this in the wallet? Where is the renter's advantage right now? In addition to the rent and the service costs, this bill has to pay an additional amount, namely the energy performance fee. Can the Minister promise that the energy performance compensation will not exceed the energy bill? Although the landlord guarantees maximum heat demand, he bases it on a variety of aspects, such as an energy index. This can of course differ from the real performance and as a tenant you will eventually pay for additional energy costs that are not compensated by a lower energy performance fee. How's the minister gonna handle that? What I can also imagine is that the price of energy will go down even further than in the future because of green innovation. Then as a tenant, you're stuck with an energy performance fee based on today's energy bill. It is therefore not an attractive prospect to be a pioneer in the creation of energy-neutral homes and to pay heavily later, while people who do not have an energy-neutral home do not pay for them. How is the Minister going to ensure that the pioneers of today are not the losers of later? And what will happen to the proceeds of the fees? A landlord can charge the fee endlessly after the investment. Why is the return on the energy performance compensation not earmarked for investments in sustainability? Then you give sustainability a real boost.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	I can see the disadvantage of the energy performance compensation that Mr Bashir mentions. But what does he think is the alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	If you make a sustainable investment, there is a lot of tax money involved. After all, we have all kinds of arrangements, such as the SDE+ scheme. We cleared $100 million with the Tax Plan. It seems logical to me that the remuneration on the other hand should be used to boost sustainability. At the same time, you must ensure that the pioneers of today are not the payers and the losers of later. Then it would be fairer to establish a link with the energy bill. You're gonna make a deal. Let's say the energy bill goes down a lot and there's revenue against it. Then it is logical that the tenant also gets a larger part of that in the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'm having a hard time with this. Apparently we all want a kind of Energiewende in the Netherlands, but Mr Bashir says in advance that he wants 40% of the Dutch, namely everyone with a rental house, who doesn't notice anything about it in his wallet. I can't reconcile those two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u27	I want it the other way around. I just want the tenant to notice something about it in his wallet. If we really want to get rid of our oil and gas addiction, we also need to make it more sustainable. Then we need to invest in energy-neutral housing. This is realized when people actually notice something about it in their wallet, not just now but later. I can imagine that if energy prices go down even further, people will not be inclined to make that investment now and to enter into a contract with the landlord.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u28	My problem is who's going to pay for it. If investment is to be made, someone must invest. If it's tax money, we'll all pay it. However, I can imagine tenants contributing a fair share to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u29	The tenant pays a fair share, because there will be an energy performance fee. However, it seems to me more logical and fair that the proceeds should also be earmarked. When housing corporations make a one-off investment, they will have endless returns with the energy performance compensation. That is why I also ask the Minister whether it would not be more logical to assess the revenues from the energy performance compensation for, for example, sustainability, but also to lower the renter's bill at a later stage. I come to the second point. The SP Group believes that the energy performance compensation should only be applied for in completely energy-neutral homes. We need to get rid of the oil and gas addiction. You do this by giving real incentives, with which energy-neutral homes are immediately chosen. Experience shows that, once sustainability investments have been made in a home, no additional investments are made for a long time. Therefore, energy-neutral housing must be chosen immediately and not first for an intermediate route. In addition, a tenant must be prevented from double-paying. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is only an energy performance compensation for homes that have an energy bill of €0. I have also tabled an amendment on this subject, but I would much rather like a commitment from the Minister on this point. Then I come to the third point. It should not make it unnecessarily difficult for tenants. Why is a dispute on the energy performance compensation entirely under the responsibility of the tenant? Why can there be no supervision of the ACM and the Authority housing corporations? Will the ACM and the Authority supervise housing corporations? If not, is the Minister prepared to take care of this? The fourth point concerns the legislative proposal itself. There is still a great deal of uncertainty. Almost everything needs to be further developed in a so-called General Measure of Governance. We do not agree with that. We would like to watch and decide and want the AMvB to be put forward. I also have an amendment on this, namely the amendment on item No. 9. I come to the fifth point. How does the Minister see the future of the energy-neutral home? If we want completely energy-neutral housing to become the norm, then they will have to get a place in the rental pointssystematiek. Can the Minister investigate what this could look like? Finally, I would like to remind the Minister that there are huge waiting lists and that he is the Minister for Housing. So there's a lot of work to be done for him. Build houses together with the municipalities and housing corporations and do this right away. Make it energy-neutral homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the appreciation of this bill on our part. We welcome this bill because it is now time to get rid of our fossil addiction. This has the highest priority, not only because of the climate, but also because of the consequences of the extraction of natural gas in Groningen, for example. It is undesirable for tenants to be deprived of a strong energy note on a monthly basis, while the money can also be invested in radically sustainable housing. We must not be deprived of our money, but we must drive our economy forward with it. The Power Acceleration project has shown that large steps from label G to zero on the meter are much more efficient and cost-effective than traditional label steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u31	I'm gonna try one more time in this room. You're saying we shouldn't hide that gas. I assume you'll at least be living in one of those zero-on-the-meter houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u32	No, I don't live in a zero-on-the-meter house. I don't live in a rental house either. But I did go into those rentals and look at the investments that are being made there. It's pretty drastic if you need to get out of your house and make some decent adjustments to the house. You know, after that, you have a warm house at a lower cost. That is what Mr Madlener should be talking about. If it becomes possible, I'm sure I'll see to it in my home as well. Because of the production capacity alone, it is not possible to realize it within a few years for all homes, but all homes are zero on the meter, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, the final picture we should be working towards. The legislative proposal we are discussing today can make a good contribution to this. This law makes it possible to replace the energy note with an energy performance fee, which allows the money to be put into the home. Residents, corporations and market players have been waiting a long time for this. Tempo is needed to get the current acceleration really in that gear. We are now talking about 111,000 zero-on-the-meter homes by 2020. We must then push ahead quickly, so that in 2035, every new rented house will be zero on the meter, as stated in the motion adopted by me and Mr De Vries as an ambition. This requires the involvement of the entire construction sector. It is therefore a good thing to share knowledge and experience with new entrants in the sector from the Accelerator. This offers prospects for rapid development. From the long-term perspective of all homes zero on the meter, I will focus my contribution on three points. First of all, I have questions about the ambitions of the bill. Then I will discuss the amount of the performance fee and the guarantees for the tenants. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the steps we are going to take following this legislative proposal. First of all, the ambitions. In the motion I have just mentioned, by myself and Mr De Vries, we proposed that the transformation to zero on the meter should be mandatory, for example, by converting an average of 5% and a minimum of 3% of the housing stock to zero on the meter per year. It may also be possible to achieve the same effect by requiring renovations and major maintenance operations above a certain amount to meet zero-on-the-meter level. In any case, in the written reply, the Minister indicated that he would investigate this. He will inform the Chamber about the progress by the summer of 2016. I would like to stress once again that, as far as we are concerned, the time of no commitment is over and that a high level of ambition is forcing ambitious action. If we focus on the sustainability of the existing housing stock, it can easily happen that we focus too much on the energetic side of sustainability. It is important; that is what I have just argued. I believe that the importance of this after the climate summit has become clear to everyone. But sustainability is broader, especially when it comes to housing stock. Are sustainable building materials, for example, used in sustainability? Do people still want to live in the homes we're dealing with in ten years' time? These are all relevant questions in this context. After a zero-on-the-meter renovation, the houses get an extension for 40 years, but can the neighborhood in which the houses are located take that long again? Is the neighborhood brought up to date after renovation of the houses? We see that Power acceleration not only sets out an energetic performance but also makes homes more attractive in terms of appearance in the neighbourhood. That's important. Just as the approach should focus not only on healthy housing, living comfort and longer living at home, but also on ensuring that the houses comply with the policy maker's mark Safe Living, so that the homes and neighbourhoods become safer. That is why my group wants to focus more on this integrality in the concept of'sustaining existing neighbourhoods'. Can the Minister comment on this and indicate how this change of law can be used to make meters on that point as well? Can he indicate how the government can play a role in stimulating private parties in these areas? I know that the Accelerators have this integrated view and that they already include these points in an integral label. Even hard agreements around the Flora and fauna law and asbestos are part of this. However, all this is done on a voluntary basis. Does the Minister see more opportunities or ambitions in this respect? I would like to comment on the level of the energy performance compensation and the guarantee for the tenants. The Minister shall address in the report questions on the maximum amount of compensation. He states that a lower fee can always be agreed. However, is the tenant always in a position to enforce that lower remuneration if that is reasonable? Shouldn't the tenant be better protected at this point? The landlord must of course get the tenants over the line with a reasonable offer. If the offer is unreasonable, the residents will not agree to it. Is the resident able to verify that the offer is reasonable? I'm asking the Minister to give us a little more insight into this. According to the bill, the landlord must guarantee the energy performance in writing. That sounds good, because that provides a basis for the tenant's housing costs, for example. The Minister therefore does not consider a standard label information protocol or contract necessary. Is it not too easy, however, not to lay down further rules? In the many debates on the energy label, we have seen that it is precisely the design of information and standardisation that is very important. With the advanced technology, the landlord can win with the current bill without the tenant giving adequate counter gas. Then the total housing costs of these tenants fall less strongly than is possible on the basis of the business case. The fraction of the Christian Union wants to prevent landlords from asking for a higher remuneration than is strictly necessary due to knowledge origin and that this will then work out to the disadvantage of the tenants. I therefore ask the Minister to check whether a form of certification is included in the AMvB. Another important guarantee is the netting system in the energy tax. In my opinion, this legislative proposal makes it even more necessary to have a clear long-term perspective on investment security. Does the Minister share this view and will he and his colleague from EZ put the emphasis on it now that that is also being looked at? I come to my third block: what else is needed besides the legal regulation of the Accelerator? Under the new system of the Environment Act, municipalities are given opportunities to impose additional sustainability requirements on construction and renovation notices. As an example, I would like to mention stricter energy efficiency requirements and stricter environmental performance requirements for building materials to be used. However, this will still take until 2018. That's too bad, because it could be so useful by now. We see that EZ and I and M work together in pilots. For the municipality of Meppel a separate provision is now included in Article 6c of the Decision Implementing Crisis and Recovery Act. Can a subsequent tranche of this decision not allow all municipalities to impose stricter requirements already? Under the amended Housing Act, municipalities can make performance agreements with individual corporations on sustainability in renovation based on their housing vision. This can also be done about zero-on-the-meter renovations of homes. The Christian Union asks whether the Minister sees a role for himself in this as a driving force for the renewal of municipalities. After the Paris Climate Summit, does he see a more active role for himself in which he demands zero on the meter more often, and for more homes? I would also ask the Minister, as a driver, to put pressure on corporations, so that they will actually take advantage of the new opportunities put forward by Power Accelerating and therefore no longer allow corporations to stick to traditional solutions and small label steps. Does the minister want to be the big pusher? I'm rounding up. What happens if all the rentals are gonna be zero-on-the-meter houses? I do not think there is any need for a separate energy performance compensation. Good insulation is then the standard and modern installations can be financed from the rent. This calls for a further adjustment of the housing valuation system and, for example, the rent allowance, leaving behind the concept of "rental" and only talking about "living expenses." I would like to hear the Minister say a little more about this final picture. How are we gonna get there? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the acceleration also has implications for the appropriate allocation. That's all about rent now, but low-income people suffer from high-energy housing. It is fine that low-income people are housed appropriately, but look not only at the rent, but also at the energy costs. Is the Minister prepared to prepare a change to the rules for appropriate allocation for next year, where the starting point is the housing costs? What, finally, if there is an eye-catching perspective for the rental sector, should be accessible to the purchasing sector? Can the Minister comment on developments in the purchasing sector? What policy is being applied here in the rental sector should also be made possible in the purchasing sector? It would be nice if also properties went to zero on the meter at a high rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr. Chairman. The CDA appreciates the present proposal which allows for the energy performance compensation. The change will trigger a movement that we have been expecting for a long time. But is it enough? In our view, the objectives for the built environment set out in the energy agreement are far from being achieved. My group was critical of the limited use of the National Energy Savings Fund, and it still is. We see that things are getting better now; some relaxations have been introduced and more use is being made of them. But it's not enough. The implementation of the Ronnes motion, which asks to examine the limited use, is still awaiting the CDA's disappointment. The CDA has asked whether, according to the Minister, the objectives of the Energy Agreement can be achieved in good time. My group is concerned about this because in the 2015 National Energy Exploratory those targets are not yet within reach. We know that there will be an evaluation in the middle of this year. But what is the Minister's view at the moment? The signals aren't favourable. For example, the energy agreement states that no less than 111,000 homes of corporations must be renovated to zero-on-the-meter homes by 2020. So that's four years from now. For 11,000 homes there are now appointments. So we still have 100,000 to go. According to the CDA, that's never gonna work at this rate. The specific question is: will the Stroomaccelerate, in conjunction with the present legislative amendment, help enough? At meetings in the country we hear the complaint, the reaction that the requirements for zero on the meter in the scheme will be too tight. The energy performance compensation shall not be applied in the case of modifications which do not comply with the requirements. We understand the reactions of the various corporations. They are asking for a flexible regime so that housing which does not meet the criteria can also be covered by the scheme. Half an egg is better than an empty shell. Nevertheless, the CDA believes that the choice of the current approach to the present proposal, i.e. the high requirements for zero-on-meter adjustments, is a sensible choice for the moment. It is wise to guarantee the feasibility, but also to pursue the ambition of the energy agreement. This can be done especially if major steps are taken. Therefore, relaxing the requirements does not seem to be a good choice at the moment, but perhaps at a later stage, if we have more experience, it will be. However, there must be a clear signal from the Minister that he is convinced that the ambition of 110,000 homes will be met by 2020, among other things, with this legislative amendment. Can we get that clarity, I ask the Minister. We have one last question. The corporations suggested a different addition to appropriate allocation based on a residential expense approach; previous speakers also mentioned it. How does the Minister view this suggestion? Does he intend to discuss this further with the interested parties in the rental sector and, if possible, to bring forward a legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin my speech by asking how many Members of Parliament live here in such a zero-on-the-meter house. I have asked a number of times for a colleague who made a flaming speech here for those beautiful zero-on-the-meter houses, but none of the MPs lives in them themselves. That makes us a little skeptical. And rightly so, I think, because there are a lot of problems with these zero-on-the-meter houses. When it comes to sustainability, this Chamber is getting a little crazy drilling people through the nose of this kind of thing. We are reluctant on this point. In itself, the principle that the tenant co-pays for comfort-enhancing or energy-saving items makes sense. The PVV is also a warm supporter of energy saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u35	I note from Mr Madlener's question that he does not have a zero-on-the-meter house either. Has he ever actually been there to look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u36	I've worked a long time in construction, as you may know. I am well aware of all the problems this has caused. If you want to introduce new techniques too quickly, you often encounter problems. I would also like to highlight the problems that may arise in the longer term. This type of plant is complicated and costly. In fact, we do not yet know how things are going to relate in the long term. I have just referred to a newspaper report from the last few days about a project in Tilburg that has failed enormously. This concerns those zero-on-the-meter houses you want to enter quickly. In practice, however, I see major problems and I hope you will see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u37	I asked only one question, namely whether Mr Madlener has already come to see it. He could have replied with 'yes' or 'no', but instead I get a whole speech about construction. Is he willing to take me to one of those zero-on-the-meter houses? Then we can really see what is going on. Perhaps we can also discuss the problems, but we can also see what is good about them. Is Mr Madlener willing to come with me and look at a place like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u38	Of course, I'd like to look, but I don't think we're getting along very well with that. I'd rather hear the experiences of people living in them. I still see too many problems with this kind of housing. Perhaps the Minister is prepared to tell us both what the people's experiences are in order to find out what is going on with the practice of zero-meter houses. Are people happy? Are they happy with those zero-on-the-meter houses afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u39	Too bad Mr Madlener doesn't want to come with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u40	I want to go!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u41	We share the point that we must also listen to the experience. If Mr Madlener looks at the houses and talks with the residents, he can also hear very nice stories, I think. I'll send him an invitation and we'll see if we can set a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u42	Of course, I'd like to go along, especially with a charming colleague like you! It is, of course, about the experiences of those people, both after a few months, and after a few years. In the long term, these plants may also pose a number of problems. I think we're both interested in this. I will certainly go into the invitation, but I would also ask the Minister if he would like to examine whether the practice is as beautiful as the Members of Parliament outlined here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u43	I believe that Mr De Vries would also like to sign up for a work visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u44	I assume that a working visit with Mrs Schouten is much more enjoyable than a working visit with me, so I think Mr Madlener should.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u45	It might be possible together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u46	I'm a little surprised about the following. Of course, it is not unknown at all that huge mistakes are being made. The cost of failure in construction is still around 14% to 15%. The same applies to such measures. Why does Mr Madlener only focus on sustainability in terms of failure costs? Why doesn't he tell us not to build houses until we're sure it's all going well 100%? Mr Madlener's indignation is so selective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u47	First of all, I find it strange that none of the MPs who are here for zero-on-the-meter houses have a zero-on-the-meter house themselves. That gives me a bit of a heads-up, but I am particularly critical of this because the investments needed to achieve a zero-on-the-meter house are very high. It's not that easy at all. Of course, you could also use that money to build no zero-on-the-meter houses, but much more little-on-the-meter houses, using techniques that are much more common in practice. We are therefore critical of this. I'm not so much against zero on the meter. Of course it's wonderful if you don't have energy costs. No one likes to pay an energy bill, especially with all the PvdA deposits that are available today on energy costs. Of course we are at zero on the meter, but it must be affordable and profitable and it must also lead to comfort. I have doubts about that. The spokesperson himself does not live in a zero-on-the-meter house. I notice that they have not so far made any critical noise about the zero-on-the-meter houses, while there are, in fact, a lot of problems. I am glad to be able to point out the problems involved. I think it's our job to look critically at these kinds of ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr Madlener is, after all, returning to his selective indignation. I regret that, because I sensed strong support from him for the input we will be making in dealing with the proposal for a quality improvement project. The point is that the builders are responsible for what they deliver. That's gotta work. That's gotta knock. If that is not the case, the consumer must be taken care of. So Mr Madlener has a point to make when he says that this is not going well, but that is not only true for sustainability measures of this kind; this is true for overall construction. Let's get together on that point, because then the PvdA and the PVV can get something together and that would be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have already said that we are absolutely not against new savings techniques, heat pump systems or whatever they are. We are very much in favour of that, but you still have to look at the practice before you send a bill to the Chamber to build 110,000 zero-on-the-meter houses. It can't be that you decide first to get 110,000 families into such a zero-on-the-meter house and then you're not going to see if it's working out right. I think that's the wrong order. That is why my contribution is a little more critical than that of Mr De Vries. We are therefore hesitant on this point. We have not yet taken a position on this. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. We have a number of concerns. One of them is maintenance over time. Another point is that making agreements between corporations and sitting tenants about rental adjustments after home improvement is, of course, not prohibited now either. It's already possible. What does this bill add in practice? This bill makes it possible to charge an energy performance fee to the tenant on top of the rental fee. That's in exchange for better insulation and lower heating costs or even zero on the meter. But isn't it the job of corporations to maintain homes properly and to isolate them in a modern way? Corporates can increase the rent every year. The rents have already been greatly increased. Why does the tenant have to pay extra for this? It is also questionable whether improving the energy performance of homes leads to more residential enjoyment. In this context, I have already pointed out the failed projects. Apart from the months of renovations that tenants have to deal with, the enjoyment of living is often far away in the long term. I will not go into that further, because I have already made sufficient mention of this in the interruptions. Due to the legal introduction of an energy performance fee, in the form of a storage on the rent or an additional rent increase; it's just what you call it, the position of the tenant deteriorates. After all, it becomes increasingly unclear for tenants what they pay for their property. If the tenant does not agree with the extra rent storage, he can submit this to the Rent Committee. Apart from the fact that it takes a lot of effort and knowledge, which many tenants will not be able to raise, the PVV wonders why the agreement on the storage on the rental price should not take place in advance. The PVV believes that the tenant should always be able to refuse a proposal from the landlord about additional costs. Mr Bashir has already asked a fair question about this. You can now save an x amount per month, but with decreasing energy costs, it's just a question of whether that's still profitable in a few years' time. Is the storage maintained if the property is rented to a successive tenant? We need to see this storage on the rental price as a compensation for energy supply, as stated in the bill. With a solar panel, this is still measurable, but what about other devices, such as insulation? It is not measurable what additional insulation results, but the tenant has to pay a storage fee for this. In short, it becomes very unclear for the tenant. The energy agreement aims at 110,000 zero-on-the-meter houses, which are difficult to achieve in practice. The PVV therefore wants some restraint on this point. First, it has to be proven that it really works well. The PVV is for energy saving, but would prefer to opt for more smaller and proven savings instead of some zero-on-the-meter houses. Is it not wise, for example, to bring a lot of outdated G-label homes to a C-label instead of creating a small number of zero-on-the-meter houses? In short, the PVV is reluctant. The PVV will not reject the proposal in advance, but is looking forward to the Minister's response. It will adopt its position on the legislative proposal and the amendments at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u50	For those who use it from the outside, we will resume the debate on the energy performance compensation. We have completed the first term of office and are now going to listen to the Minister's response to the questions of the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber's input was different, but I agree with Mrs Schouten's opening sentences. She just said to be happy with this law. Of course, I am always pleased with the laws that I have the right to submit to the Chamber, but in this case I am particularly pleased with the way in which this law has been implemented. I would remind you of the period three years ago when the Dutch economy, the construction sector and the housing market were struggling. A part of the Netherlands sometimes philosophized that it would never be good with the market, the housing market, the construction and the economy. At that moment, a social initiative came up, De Stroomstaarde. It is nice that Mr Van Dijk is here as a representative and former colleague. The initiators said: "Don't let up, we also see opportunities at this difficult time; we as builders and housing corporations work together and we ask politics to help us, but it is our initiative. A number of members have asked whether this means that this law applies only to De Stroomstaarde. That is absolutely not the case. The law lays down rules for other initiatives. That's important, but I'm giving this history here because I think it's a beautiful history. The challenge of making homes, especially social housing, homes for people with a small wallet, energy-efficient, preferably energy-neutral, is also a major societal challenge. First of all for the tenants, for their living comfort and for their wallet. Secondly, for the Netherlands, because it is a major social challenge that involves a lot of innovation. Moreover, this makes an important contribution to achieving the climate objectives. I hope that the Chamber will forgive my happiness and that I will be able to get the other members of the Chamber in this state of mind. As usual, I will answer the questions on the basis of a number of themes. I shall begin with a number of general questions about energy saving and energy saving in the built environment. I shall then turn to questions on the impact on housing costs. There are a number of subjects that have been raised. Mr De Vries has asked why tenants are now getting a third account. I assume he's referring to an account next to the bills for rent and service charges. I am not aware that there has ever been an agreement that there would be no third account at all. The term "zero on the meter" requires a precise explanation. This does not mean that external energy will never be used at all; it means that no external energy will be used in normal use in an average year. However, it can happen that in summer a house provides energy, for example because there are solar collectors and can be returned there, and that in an Elfstedenwinter where I hope some external energy is needed to keep the house at temperature. However, a house that meets the criteria for applying an energy performance fee under this law will have no energy demand over a whole year on average in normal use. This means that it does make sense for the resident to have an energy bill. In the case of average use in an average year, that account will be zero, but for an energy-conscious, energy-efficient resident, the arrival of the energy bill will be a party, because then there will be returned and that will yield money. If there is more use for any reason, there will have to be additional payment. After all, it is possible that it was a special year and that in another year money will be recovered. This also seems very pure to me, because it leads to the consequences of behavior being seen and felt and that the result ultimately desired is, on average, zero or, preferably, less than that, so that it can be earned. That's what the bill is for. Mr De Vries also asked whether it was possible to include collective energy generation in the law. I would almost say that the current law is complex enough. What seemed simple at first, however, asked for some time to be worked out. I would like to say to the House that I will continue to examine additional requests. I am thinking here of the wish expressed earlier by Mr De Vries to include label steps in a similar system. We have carried out a first exploratory study into the significance of including label steps below. Unfortunately, at the moment, this leads mainly to follow-up questions. Calculating the thumb leads to follow-up questions about behavioural effects. If you are ambitious, is it desirable to place smaller steps in such a system? Mrs Schouten was very explicit in that, but I know that other Members of Parliament are also ambitious. Then you also make it a bit easy not to strive for the highest energy result. On the other hand, if, on balance, you can achieve more energy savings than the ambitious method, then that can be attractive. However, its impact is complicated. I would like to say to Mr De Vries that I will give a more detailed follow-up reaction later this year. I will also mention the issue of collective energy production. Frankly, I have not yet received any specific questions or proposals from the sector in this area, but I would like to explore this. In view of the haste I am in with this law, I would now like to continue with this basic form. In my introduction, I have already said that this law is not only for De Stroomstaarde, no matter how much I appreciate De Stroomstaarde. Mr Van der Linde asked whether this law did not create unequal treatment between tenants and buyers. "Equal treatment" is always a complicated concept. It concerns Article 1 of the Constitution, which deals with equal treatment in equal cases. You can promote endlessly on the question of what is an "equal case." The Dutch legislation of course has a rent protection that is more extensive for people with a small wallet than for others. There's the thought that these people need some extra protection. Of course, this does not mean that nothing happens for other groups including homeowners and home buyers. That is why we have the National Energy Savings Fund. I will deal with Mr Ronnes' question in the near future. For this we indeed have criteria in the building regulations and for that we have also increased mortgage standards, for people who want to finance very energy-efficient homes. The form chosen now fits in with the rental protection. Of course, there has been a search for a form in which the investment remains possible and attractive. After all, the energy performance compensation is essentially a remuneration that enables that investment to be made. That is also my answer to those who asked whether the energy performance compensation could be specifically targeted. The energy performance compensation can only be calculated if it can be demonstrated that the requirements for the very economical housing are met. Something like that calls for a remodel. Of course, this renovation must be recouped in 20 to 25 years. In fact, that payback is made if possible. The fee may therefore only be calculated if the criteria set out in the law and in the AMvB are met. As a result of this investment, there is in fact already a link. Mr Koolmees asked when the AMvB was coming. He saw me at the time. The AMvB has been made public for consultation in draft form. Should the Chamber do indeed provide this bill with its blessing, I would like to preside over the AMvB within two weeks. Mr Koolmees specifically asked about how office premises are handled. There are two possibilities. This instrument can be used for office premises that are transformed into dwellings. In the case of office premises that remain in office premises, the existing rules apply, which means that all energy-related investments that can be recovered within five years must also be made in the case of renovations. In my view, therefore, the necessary legal instruments have already been put in place. Mr Bashir asked what would happen when the price of energy would fall further. With all due respect, that question is as logical as the question of what would happen if the energy price would rise further. In the latter case, the tenant who achieves the average use is with this arrangement bacon buyer, because he is protected against it. It's a bit of a coffee blink, but it seems speculative to me that the energy price would fall even further, and at least structurally. But if that's the case, then the tenant will only have that advantage over the part he's still using. But in both situations, the tenant has certainty about the energy costs. The certainty that the energy costs will remain constant during normal use, combined with the fact that the quality of such a house increases enormously and that people will get a really nicer home with it, is absolutely of great value. I believe most Members have already visited the beautiful zero-on-the-meter house. It looks really different. Mrs Schouten pointed out that this is not only apparent when you enter the house, but also when you enter the street. Mr Ronnes discussed the progress of the energy agreement more broadly at the beginning of his speech. Together with my colleague, Mr Kamp, I sent the progress report of the committee to the Chamber in December. This indicated that the targets set for housing are still within reach. Moreover, this legislative proposal is essential in order to achieve these goals, including the ambition for 2020 for those 111,000 homes. Then I'll move on to the consequences for the living expenses. Mr De Vries and Mr Bashir spoke about this. Mr Bashir asked whether a guarantee could be included in the AMvB. I have just indicated that the energy performance compensation is based on normal use. The appointment made by a landlord is therefore that the tenant pays this fee in normal use. That's also the only part you can get together, so you can make a guarantee for that part. For the renter's own behavior if that is very economical, that will be in his favor, but if that is inefficient, to his disadvantage, of course you cannot give a guarantee. In my opinion, such a guarantee system, with these terms and conditions, is already in the current regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u52	In the end, of course, it is about practice. What will the individual tenant notice about this? Imagine being a tenant in a house labeled G and being upgraded to an energy-efficient home. In theory, you're much more profitable because you're gonna save a lot. In practice, this can mean that you have to pay a very high energy performance fee, while perhaps in winter you had a very thick sweater and lived economically, together with your family. Well, you're gonna have to pay for it. How am I supposed to see that in practice? Is this family going to pay more, less or as much in practice because they get an energy-efficient home?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u53	For most families, the balancing will be very simple when the question is put to them. If a housing corporation wants to remodel radically, it is so arranged in the Netherlands that 70% have to give permission to do so. That's a big deal. Those families will therefore be asking the same question as Mr Bashir is asking. Does the proposal of the housing corporation at my home lead me to pay more, the same amount or less? Knowing Dutch a little bit, I don't think you'll get permission from that 70% if you come up with an offer as a landlord that will make people more expensive. The law and the AMvB propose a maximum standard for that energy performance compensation. How that fee is determined within that maximum is the result of the normal consultation between tenant and landlord. But 70% consent is required. I am therefore not concerned about the outcome of that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u54	If the Minister is not concerned about this, then I do not think it would be a problem to take a guarantee that people will at least not go backwards. I can imagine that families who now live in a poorly isolated home and wear a thick sweater in the winter will then be charged a very heavy price for energy performance compensation because they are in theory using much less. So, if we're not worried, I don't think it's a bad thing to just settle this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u55	The actual use of energy of that family or person is, of course, a determining factor in whether an account is sent at all. I can't legally guarantee that people behave wisely. I'm just doing a thought experiment. Suppose you put in the law that the energy bill would always be the same. Most Dutch people are very good people, of course, but I fear that some others will make it a business. "Come all your phones up to me!" I don't have to think about all the trades associated with burning lamps and associated fans. You can do all that, because the bill never comes. If you're just a little fond of the environment, you should never start a scheme like that. I am thinking of an arrangement whereby the majority of Dutch people would, fortunately, never do such things if they were to be used in normal conditions of use. Since 70% have to agree to it, local negotiations will really produce an amount that will not lead to a massive decline in people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u56	The Minister says that there should be at least 70% support, but that support depends on whether people are improving or declining. In a neighbourhood with only G-label homes and people who already save little energy, it becomes a difficult discussion if it is not guaranteed that the housing costs will not increase. The Minister makes it a bit of a caricature, but there is an agreement between Aedes and the House Union which takes into account those people with thick sweaters that Mr Bashir just mentioned. So that's on an individual level. That agreement assumes that the guarantee applies in the case of equal use and conditions. That also removes the Minister's objection. Because you can't take and use unbridled, because then you have to pay more. The Labour Party is strongly in favour of giving a guarantee or guarantee in normal use, as it has done in the past and will take place in the future, after renovation. That will increase the level of support. I urge the Minister to take this over. It is an existing scheme, with support from the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr De Vries' speech is precisely the reason why I am so reassured, namely that, in view of the agreement with Aedes and the Housing Association, the housing corporation will also comply with that agreement at local level. My speech is, of course, about the role that you and I have as legislators. There has not been a request from Aedes to close it all a bit further. After all, if you put it even further down, you will also reward unwanted environmentally unfriendly behaviour and destroy the investment will that we want to drive with it. So the guarantee that Mr De Vries is asking for is to be given in normal use and actually follows from the agreements, but a guarantee for an energy bill in all variations in behaviour that are possible would be very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u58	Then we agree. Only, we would like to have it recorded in the General Measure of Management than one does not deteriorate on equal use. If the Minister does not agree, we will table a motion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u59	The General Measure of Governance has not only been published but is still before the Chamber. So that's what we're gonna meet about. Mr Van der Linde asked whether investment in energy savings would affect the budget of the rent allowance. An agreement has been made with the corporation sector to work on average energy label B in the long term. The estimates for the rent allowance, which I have to admit are not as precise as I would like to hope, have taken account of that step. In case of 70% consent, a corporation may adjust the rent for label steps that also affect the housing valuation system. Part of the tenants will be affected by the rent allowance. We have also taken this into account in the estimates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u60	That's not quite the sharpness I've been looking for. It is quite a difference whether energy measures are carried out through that housing valuation system, which then leads to 44 points in the WWS system that the rent payment then goes over, or that they are carried out through the energy performance compensation. I'm starting to doubt how we're gonna organize that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u61	The energy performance fee is not part of the basis of the rental allowance. As I have also informed the Chamber, the score counting on the housing valuation system will be corrected when using the energy performance compensation. I have understood the question more broadly: does investing in energy saving by landlords affect the use of the rental surcharge? The answer to that is yes. I fear that not all homes will immediately become zero on the meter. The housing valuation system therefore offers the room to increase rents in case of less large energy-saving measures, depending on local consent. If that happens, it will have consequences for the rent payment, but we have taken that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u62	I was just looking for the final picture. Is in a number of years' time the final picture that we place energy measures completely outside the housing valuation system and transfer them to the energy performance compensation, or do these systems continue to exist side by side?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u63	That question was also raised very explicitly by Mrs Schouten. I'd like to cut it in half. I would like to think again about how we can further adapt the housing valuation system. This is also in line with Mr De Vries' question as to whether you can further differentiate the energy performance compensation. I'd like to report to the Chamber on both components over the course of the year. I would think it would be unwise to go all the way to a housing tax approach as long as there is an external energy connection, because that would mean that you would use the rent payment as an assumption that there will be a rent payment, which could be the case if you were also going to subsidise energy use. I do not think it is entirely logical in the context of energy ambitions to subsidise energy use. Now, of course, I cannot fully foresee technological developments either. I sincerely hope that one day we will find ourselves in a situation where a house can not only be average energy self-sufficient but also actually, then it would be less of a problem. As long as you need that external connection for the elf-city winter, I wouldn't think it makes any sense. But for the intermediate step, the variant that Mr De Vries and Mr Van der Linde asked for, I would like to do some more thinking in consultation with the sector and come back to it during the year. Mr Koolmees asked whether tenants would benefit enough and whether you could make some sort of profit-sharing scheme. Due to the required consent, the tenants themselves decide whether they benefit sufficiently. To be honest, I think that is also the most beautiful instrument. In fact, there is an individual profit-sharing scheme because economical use leads to the possibility of returning and earning from it. Because it's actually about being able to write off an investment for the next twenty years, I don't have a clear eye on how to get even more profit sharing together. The regulation also does not rule out the possibility of doing something like this. I think we should just get to work on this. Mr Koolmees further asked if we could evaluate more quickly in 2018. I'd be happy to say so. Then we can also look very closely at whether these kinds of questions arise in practice and whether this calls for further adaptation. Mr Bashir asked why responsibility for the wrong energy performance is laid down with the tenant through the Rent Committee. I don't entirely share the description that the responsibility lies with the tenant. A landlord wishing to apply an energy performance fee must demonstrate that the property will meet these criteria. Those are pretty strict criteria. Mr Ronnes has already pointed out that there are also questions here and there as to whether this can be made more flexible. I agree with him that we should not just go into that. But first of all it is mainly a task to the landlord and to the construction. Should a tenant say in an individual case that in his opinion this is really not what he was promised, a procedure is possible through the Rent Committee. It is already a special procedure that does not require the expensive and complicated process to the judge but that you can simply go to the Rent Committee. Are there sufficiently objective criteria for the Rent Committee? The law and the concept of the AMvB provide very clear criteria on the energy consumption per square meter that the house has to meet, the technical specifications, in order to calculate an energy performance fee. The Rent Committee, which we have of course consulted, has also stated that it can do well with this. Mrs Schouten asked whether there was a large difference of knowledge between the tenant and the landlord. On an individual level, Mrs Schouten is right. This of course applies wider in the renter-renter relationship. In any case, we want to bridge that difference of knowledge by including an obligation to provide information in the AMvB. An annual review of the performance must be sent to the tenant. In addition, tenants are given support in the Netherlands, especially by the Housing Association. We all support the House Union a little bit with taxpayers' money. I realize that there is a difference in knowledge and that support is needed. I think we are right to note that there is a difference in knowledge. Through these routes, we can overcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u64	I am pleased that the Minister noted that there may be some tension between the information origin of one and the other. At some point it will be determined what the epv per square meter is. It is between €1 and €1.40. For a tenant it is quite difficult to determine what amount belongs to his property. Is it €1,20, €1,30 or €1,40? Can we not put in some kind of guarantee at this point to ensure that the price per square metre of the product, which is between €1 and €1.40, is determined by a company that has a quality mark or that at least has proven that there is a check on it? We want it to be accurate measurements, that these measurements are correct and that such a company should be able to prove it on request. Isn't that a sensible way to build in an extra guarantee for the tenant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u65	The determination of energy consumption is carried out by the energy index method that is already well used. I don't know which criteria you have to meet in order to establish an Energy Index. I will see if I can answer that question in the second term. As far as I know, you can't just do it, but I want to give you an exact answer. I hope to come to the Chamber shortly with the private quality assurance bill, so that you can also keep the builder or the grower's commitments through liability. Mr De Vries was right to refer to that point. I will look at the criteria for certification for the second period. Mr Madlener asked what the bill adds. He sounded a little gloomy. The current rental legislation specifies very sharply for which a landlord may charge a fee. This concerns the living space or the service costs. The type of investment we are talking about here, including the supply of energy, cannot be regulated on the basis of current rental legislation, because it does not meet one of the two criteria. So that calls for an amendment of the law. Then together with landlords and builders we went looking for a way to add this, a way in which the tenant remains protected from all kinds of wild adventures. Without this legislative amendment, the investments would not be possible. I assume that Members of Parliament have also experienced that a large number of corporations say: please come forward with this legislation, because we would like to get on with this. There are already good experiments in many places in the country, but before these corporations make large-scale investments, they do need legal certainty. That adds this law. In my opinion, this means for the tenants that a good opportunity is being created to improve the houses in terms of energy and to contribute in many other respects to controlling energy costs and the environment. Without this law, it wouldn't be possible that way. Mr Madlener asked if I wanted to examine whether it would work out well in practice. Mr Madlener pointed out an example in Tilburg where things were not going well. Fortunately it is also very possible to visit people who live in such a converted house and are very satisfied with it. But of course, mistakes can be made in all human actions and certainly in new techniques. I already said to Mr Koolmees that we would like to carry out a first evaluation in 2018. Then we shall also look very closely at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u66	2018 seems far too far in the future to me. This law is intended to deal with a large number of houses. There are examples of cases where people are satisfied with the result, but unfortunately there are also a lot of cases where people are really in the cold. Sometimes it takes an hour for the bath to fill. Or you don't get enough hot water in the shower. Then the comfort goes down. Those examples are also available. I do not think we should wait until 2018. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared, given the profound renovation that people are getting over them, to carry out, for example, a gutter-scale investigation within a year into whether all these people are now satisfied with the result, and to send a comprehensive report to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u67	If you want to give a real report, there has to be a little volume. We now have a lot of experience. I would also like to argue that these experiences would generally be negative. I've been to a lot of places in the Netherlands. I assume some of you, too. I have spoken to many residents who said: the renovation did not last three months, but two weeks, the house looks really beautiful and the comfort has increased; I can recommend it to anyone. The image isn't that the glass is half empty. It's more than half full for me. I do agree with Mr Madlener that we should keep our finger on the pulse. A real evaluation of the law in less than two years really doesn't seem very real to me. What I do want to promise is that in a year's time we will report to the Chamber on the experiences of the first year. Nevertheless, we regularly discuss the whole issue of energy saving and all the instruments used. It is quite possible to come up with something in a year that will be more of a quickscan. For a real evaluation according to the rules of art we really need to have some volume. I hope that I will be able to meet Mr Madlener with such an intermediate step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u68	In two years' time, it'll be better than in three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u69	Look at that. I'm gonna put it back in my pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u70	However, I am concerned about the people who opt for such a zero-on-the-meter conversion. You'll just be in a place where it's not so nice to live. What do you do? You can go to that committee, but otherwise you're stuck with the fried pears and a conflict with the housing corporation. That is why I ask the Minister to keep his finger on the wrist a little more. We have no objective data, other than a working visit in one case or a newspaper report. That's as far as I go; we just don't know. Before we start to remodel houses on a large scale, I am very curious about the first experiences, for example with 250 homes. I'd like to know. What's against doing research on that in a year's time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr Madlener, I heard the Minister say that he is prepared to produce an inventory within a year, that is to say a quick scan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u72	A quickscan indeed, because after a year it will be about smaller volumes. A lot of corporations are waiting for this law to be passed with their investment decisions. I find that very rational, by the way. When you talk about large amounts of money, but also about big consequences for residents, you first want to know the legal framework within which you operate. Before we really have a lot of volume, we are more than a year away. We deal with the bill here, it will be discussed in the First Chamber and there must be an AMvB. We now have the first experience on the basis of a relatively small volume. I have no objection to looking critical again in a year's time, but with a slightly coarser sieve than with the full evaluation in 2018. I have no reason to not want the information that Mr Madlener is asking for. I'm just looking at the practical effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u73	I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr De Vries and Mrs Schouten asked for clarification on the netting arrangements. Mr Kamp has indicated that the netting system will in any case remain in place until 2020. That is not forever, but that is a clear commitment. He also promised that if there were any changes, there would be a transitional arrangement. In the balance that a driver always has to find between giving clarity and not for every next cabinet, of whatever composition and in any situation, everything is already locked down, this seems to me to be a decent form of security. The evaluation will come next year, in 2017. The hope is, of course, that this will make it even clearer what the follow-up will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm part of my work visit with really different sounds. I belong to corporations that the plans remain in the drawer as long as it is not clear to what level the netting arrangement will be reduced to. The general expectation is that it will be shattered. To be honest, I think that is right. Clarity for investors between now and the moment when the real decision falls, is really necessary to ensure that these plans get off the ground. That is the question we are asking: make sure that all investments that have to come off the ground are now identified and guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u76	With each investment, the investor logically wants to know the rules of the game for as long as possible. I can guarantee that a housing corporation would prefer to hear what our lease policy is for the next 40 years. That's the only way to calculate whether the rental house is recouped. However, none of us will want to lay down the rental policy for 40 years. Also in relation to this investment, I understand very well that a housing corporation or another landlord is asking for political clarity. In this case, we already give more clarity than when renting. After all, nobody guarantees what the rent policy of the next cabinet will be. So we are already giving more clarity here; Mr Kamp has made the commitment I just mentioned. In my opinion, this provides a sufficient basis for a normal investment decision, in which you will always have a little uncertainty. Then there will also be an evaluation in 2017 to provide even more clarity. I think that's very decent. I understand the demand for more clarity, but it will apply to many more things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u77	I understand what the Minister is saying, of course, but it's the corporations that are mostly about a lower limit. That gives a little certainty. I would be pleased if the Minister would guarantee that the guarantee of loans will not be refused because of uncertainty about the situation after 2020. I've spoken to a corporation that's faced with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u78	The guarantee of loans by the housing valuation system is never based on one criterion. The housing valuation system logically applies a number of criteria around money flow, solvency and collateral. If a corporation is really on the brink of these criteria, then of course there is a very critical view of investment - that is also a task - but it can never be the only criterion. I realize that I cannot make Mrs De Vries and Mrs Schouten entirely happy because they are asking for certainty for a longer time, but I hope that the combination of these statements on the netting system and the law itself, the proposal for which is before us, will lead to the release of that investment. I also heard the question about the clarity of the netting scheme, but I particularly address many corporations that say: once this law is passed, we dare to invest. Mr Van der Linde asked whether the housing valuation system could also be designed without energy aspects. I say again that I want to think further about that. I'm just gonna put a complicating thing on the table right now. Insulation is often a very structural adjustment. It will probably be very difficult to pull that part out of the housing valuation system. But I say again that we are going to take a good look at that. Mrs Schouten spoke in detail about a broader ambition for sustainable people, of actually the entire housing stock in the Netherlands. She asked what further steps could be taken in the social rental sector and in the purchasing sector. For the social rental sector we have put in place a whole palette. There are cheap loans, the subsidy from the STEP scheme, the law we are talking about today and the agreement to go to average energy label B. We have also agreed with each other that one of the four priorities of the local performance agreements under the Housing Act will be energy savings. A motion by Mrs Schouten has been adopted asking for an assessment of the consequences of imposing an energy-neutral social rental stock in the long term. I'll do that reconnaissance. In response to the motion, I said that of course you always operate within the framework conditions. Investing in one means you can't invest in the other or less. However, I will be happy to do so. When we talk about the first experience with local performance agreements, I hear that this issue is clearly on the table, but that, of course, it depends on the results of these local negotiations which choices are ultimately made. Mrs Schouten also asked how we deal with the purchasing sector. The initiators of the Stroomaccelerate also looked extensively at the purchasing sector and also strongly involved municipalities. The system of energy performance compensation is not suitable for use in the purchasing sector. However, we have also, of course, deployed a number of instruments for the purchasing sector. Mr Ronnes said that the Energy Savings Fund is going better than it has been in the past, but not as hard as we would all hope. I hope to be able to inform the Chamber within two weeks of the implementation of the 100 million available under the Tax Plan. Mr Van der Linde asked for this too. It is my ambition to use that money, among other things, to boost that Energy Savings Fund. I would also point out that almost a year ago we spoke about the energy label. It is a bit of a constant thing to have involved in the debate on the housing market that at first things start to get a bit tumultuous, and that after a while everyone notices: well, it's going pretty well. This also applies to the energy label. This is now widely used. We have also seen a marked increase in the use of the Energy Savings Fund after its introduction. In the purchasing sector, therefore, the whole palette has now been put in place. I will also come to the Chamber with additional proposals in line with the Ronnes motion. Mrs Schouten also asked whether the district would be further involved in the improvements that go beyond energy saving alone. So it's not just about the level of individual houses, but also about the level of the street and of the neighborhood. In any case, housing corporations will generally take other practical measures in the event of such a major renovation, for example with regard to access to housing. They do so simply in the context of being a good landlord, but also in the context of keeping the housing stock sustainable and therefore life-proof. In those contexts, that is just a logical step. Furthermore, in the streets and neighborhoods where it happens that, because it's a major trajectory, a model home is often set up and 70% consent is needed, a process in which people get involved and maybe go even further and see if they can, for example, generate energy or take other initiatives together. So yes, beautiful things are happening. We have also helped municipalities to set up local energy points under the Energy Agreement. It's part of the performance agreement, as I just said. Reality demands that it always remains a matter of pioneers and yet also of pushing and pulling. Many people have other desires higher on their priority list. However, we see that energy saving and this type of renovation can function as a catalyst in the street or in the neighbourhood. Mrs Schouten further asked whether sustainable materials would also be used for sustainability purposes. A motion by a fellow party member of Mrs Schouten has previously been adopted in the Chamber on this matter. On the basis of this motion, we are now in consultation with the construction sector to see how we can implement it. Mr Madlener asked whether it would not be better to strive for label steps instead of zero on the meter. Whether this is the case in the case of an individual corporation is the subject of the consultation between the corporation and the landlord. It is not that this law prescribes: you have to go to zero on the meter. I think it's okay to be ambitious as a society. I like having a final picture in which you can do it for the housing stock. This law makes it possible to take a big step. If you are going into such a major renovation process, as Mrs Schouten pointed out, it is also logical to take the whole step straight away and not a lesser step. The lesser step can be. Moreover, it is also subsidised through, inter alia, the STEP scheme. It's got to be big enough. The law does not rule this out at all, but we hope for a little more ambition. On the preview of housing costs rather than rent, I have already responded to an earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u79	"The legislator hopes." We always have a lot of hope. Only, I think the hallmark of the legislator is that if he wants something, he has to take care of it in the law. The same applies to the broader approach. If you are still renovating, you also look at other things, for example the political brand, the label of safe living and more of that kind of aspects. Fire safety is, of course, also a topical issue. Would it not be better to include in the decision a kind of zero-on-the-meter house label in which this kind of thing is guaranteed? In other words, if you get that label, you know that things like fire safety, safe living and sustainable use of materials are also guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u80	A number of things Mrs Schouten says are obvious. Before I just say "you have to do it," I just want to think for a while. After all, if you are going to impose things by law, that means that they must also be respected. I do not want to get into the situation that we are a little too strict in the law, which makes it impossible for us to take good steps, when we are actually already seeing a lot of enthusiasm for taking those steps. I'd like to think about whether you can make a logical link with other goals. Maybe we can get together and get back to the AMvB on that. When making a trade-off, I will also look at the question of whether this does not make it so complex that, for example, there is less choice for zero on the meter than we would really like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u81	It is not my intention to put the brake on, quite the contrary. I want to take this as some kind of quality assurance. The parties involved in Power Accelerating are already working on this on a voluntary basis. If people get a zero-on-the-meter house, if the landlord does so and if it guarantees that quality, then they need to know that these aspects have been taken into account. They must be able to be sure of that. We must include that in the decision as a kind of quality stamp, let us just call it that. Would the Minister consider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u82	I'm not saying no, but I really want to talk to landlords and builders about what this means. What Mrs Schouten says sounds very plausible, but if those parties tell me that it is really difficult for them to add a whole series of other labels, and if they therefore feel that we should not do it or should not do it now, then I want to have the opportunity to get back to it. We must avoid anchoring our good intentions in legislation, which is, of course, a very heavy instrument, and we must say later that we have not thought about this for a moment. This is what I say to Mrs Schouten. I'd like to present the AMvB to the Chamber in two weeks. Just give me the opportunity to think about this aspect. I'll come back to that. First let's take a lap along the fields to see what this means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u83	That seems to me to be a very workable proposal. Can we be informed about this when the AMvB comes to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u84	Yeah, you can. In the meantime, I have received the answer to Mrs Schouten's other question on certification. It does turn out to be as I suspected. In order to be able to issue an energy index, the company must already be certified. That can't just happen. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u85	I have another question about the revenues from the energy performance compensation. The investments that, for example, are going to be made by housing corporations come partly from the tax resources. Think of tax incentives, energy saving funds, SDE+ schemes and you name it. Wouldn't it make more sense to partially tag the proceeds? Then sustainability investments can be made again or they can be returned to the tenants at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think I've already answered that question. Mr Koolmees is not here now, but I said that in response to his question. The reasoning behind this was and still is that the energy performance fee is the basis for making an investment that can be recouped. This type of investment is likely to take 20 or 25 years. In fact, it's about depreciation and interest. In this kind of investment, there's not some kind of surplus. If the tenant is someone who always wears a turtleneck and uses little energy, the person will notice it individually because he can deliver back on balance. So he'll get money. However, there is no excess profit in the investment and in the depreciation over 20 or 25 years. So I don't see how I could arrange anything else for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u87	That might be something for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u88	I still hope to have answered the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u89	I'm gonna assume that's what I'm gonna do. If not, questions can always be asked in the second term. I propose that we continue with the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Vries of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the comprehensive answers he has given. I think this law will simply be able to reach the finish line. I am pleased that the Minister would like to examine the additional wishes. I agree with him that this law must now be passed and that the supplementary matters can be dealt with later, if that proves feasible. We agree on one point, but the Minister does not yet make a concrete commitment, namely that an individual tenant should not be allowed to decline in the case of constant consumption. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the additional costs of a zero-on-the-meter house are on average as high as the savings in the home on energy costs;]] [[Whereas it is very undesirable for people within the target population of social housing to have their housing costs rise;]] [[noting that the owner must have the consent of at least 70% of the tenants for the renovation of the housing;]] [[Whereas it is much more likely that tenants will give their consent if they are sure that their housing costs do not increase;]] [[noting that Aedes and the Woonbond have developed the housing security guarantee to provide tenants with certainty about their housing costs in the case of energy saving;]] [[calls on the government to include in the AMvB the system of the housing security, so that the correct use of the zero-on-the-meter housing will not increase the total housing costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34228-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u91	I tabled this motion because I would much rather have the Minister finally incorporate it into the AMvB than we would still have to argue it in front of the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. We are eagerly looking forward to the implementation of the 100 million. For the VVD, the touchstone is a bit that you want people to take energy measures, but that they can earn them back reasonably and in not too long. With that look, we'll look at it. We hope that something can be arranged for new buildings. Maybe people there want to do something extra. I thank the Minister for his commitment that he will continue to reflect on the implementation of the housing valuation system. One specific question has not been answered: can the Minister involve this point with the IBO in the rent allowance? We will talk about this later this year. I was charmed by Mrs Schouten's comment on the residential tax approach. That could be a solution to a very nice simplification of the whole system, which the VVD also wants. You could think about a standard rent, to which the rent surcharge is linked. However, that is future music. Maybe we can talk about that later this year. Zero on the meter is not the end of what we're doing. In a few years' time we are going to talk about houses that can be completely off-grid; that is another remark I cannot make from Mr Elias. That concept means you don't have to be connected to the power grid anymore. I hope that we will find sufficient flexibility to adapt the AMvB quickly. I have seen Mr Bashir's amendment. If we have to go ahead with any modification of the AMvB, it is starting to look a lot like legislation, with all the delay. I am not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr Koolmees waived a second-term contribution due to other obligations in this house. I call Mr Bashir of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. Energy-efficient and energy-neutral housing must become the norm, but at the same time we want it to be financially designed in such a way that the tenant will also notice something about it. If you don't, the tenant will be less inclined to choose. Eventually, the wallet will be voted. Then we will not get this battle off the ground, all the more so because the investments that will be made once will continue for a long time. It would therefore be very strange if the proceeds went mainly to the landlord and tenants didn't notice any of it in their wallet. We want the Minister to make every effort to ensure, through the AMvB, but perhaps also through other possibilities, that the tenant notices something about it in his wallet. We believe that this is possible, all the more so because it is tax money and the proceeds are partly made possible by taxpayers' money. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a financial incentive for the tenant is desirable to give real impetus to sustainability through energy-neutral housing;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the reduction of tenants' housing costs when an energy performance fee is requested,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34228-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for having addressed our questions so extensively. I would also like to thank him for his commitment that he will consider whether a kind of quality stamp can be given for zero-on-de-meter houses and that we will be informed more about this in two weeks' time at the AMvB. Later this year we will receive more information on the Minister's ambition. Can he indicate what he means by "later this year" so that we have an indication of that? With regard to the rent allowance and the long term, I note that the residential burden approach may be a way of looking at these issues in the longer term. We have discussed whether you are subsidising energy through the rent supplement as energy is included in the rent supplement. I believe that this can be overcome by raising the limit of the rent allowance. I'm assuming there's a lot of options for adjusting this. We may see them in the longer-term discussion on the rent payment. The position of the tenants is, in my opinion, the crucial element in this bill: the support of the tenants to ensure that zero-on-the-meter housing becomes a success and that people understand its added value. We have just discussed certification. Are you sure you don't have to pay too much for what you get delivered? The energy index is indeed certified but not the EPV. That's the point. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft Energy Performance Compensation Decision sets a maximum level of the Energy Performance Compensation;]] [[whereas tenants may have this remuneration checked by the rental commission but the threshold is high because tenants generally have a knowledge deficit in assessing the reasonableness of the proposed energy performance compensation;]] [[Whereas in the future, advanced technology may lead to the same energy performance for landlords at lower costs and thus achieve a higher profit margin without being transparent to tenants;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how tenants can obtain additional guarantees that they will not have to pay too high an energy performance fee and inform the Court within one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34228-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u96	Then I have another motion concerning the appropriate allocation. I asked how we can deal with this by looking at the energy index, but I did not really get an answer to that question. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that institutions authorised since this year have an obligation to allocate dwellings with a rent appropriate to their income;]] [[Whereas, in the case of appropriate allocation, the energy burden is not taken into account whereas it is an increasingly important component of the housing burden;]] [[Calls on the Government to adapt the appropriate allocation scheme in such a way as to take into account the total housing costs on the basis of the energy index or the energy performance compensation, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the examination of the Housing and Rijksdienst 2017 budget next autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34228-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. The debate we have had in the first term and the Minister's answers have greatly strengthened us in our positive attitude to this bill. Thank you for that. Among other things, the issue of energy label steps remains with us. The Minister said in a subtle way that he assumes that the problems surrounding the energy label are behind us. On what does the Minister base his statement that there are no more problems? Before linking the energy label steps to the energy performance fee, we believe that you should ensure that the use of the energy label is properly implemented. We have made a comment on the appropriate allocation and in doing so we have established a relationship with the residential burden approach. The motion that has just been tabled reflects this line of thinking. We call on the Minister to take a very strong look at this. We will see if we can support this motion. We have previously tabled a motion asking the government to consider how the National Energy Saving Fund can be better used. The Minister has promised to make a proposal in the coming weeks for the 100 million from the Tax Plan. So we can expect proposals and we are very content with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u98	I call Mr Madlener, the last speaker in the House's second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that he is prepared to carry out a survey of the zero-on-the-meter homes in a year's time and to send the results to the Chamber. For the sake of clarity, of course, the PVV is for energy saving. 'zero on the meter' sounds very nice, of course, but we should also be aware of the problems. Hence my somewhat critical story. We continue to follow this critically. I think the housing corporations would do better to do something about energy efficiency for all those who pay high rents. I am thinking not only of those 110,000 zero-on-the-meter homes, but above all of the huge numbers of social rental homes that need to be renovated in the coming years. People have had enough rent increase. The corporations are rich enough to actually invest in those homes. I would like to call on the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u100	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see the Minister can answer directly. Four motions and one amendment have been tabled. We're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mr. Chairman. A number of additional questions have also been asked. First of all, I should like to comment on the motion on part No. 10, in which Mr De Vries sets out his concern about the guarantee of living expenses. He asked the government to include the system of the housing security in the AMvB so that the total housing costs would not increase if the zero-on-the-meter house was used correctly. I have already said that it is indeed a question of ensuring that, in normal use, the costs of housing are as high as the energy performance compensation predicts. However, there is still a margin, because people can either be very energy-efficient or manifest themselves as a large energy user. With these comments, I consider the motion to be a policy support. The ultimate key comes of course when the relevant AMvB is placed in front of the Chamber. That'll be quick. Mr van der Linde asked me to look ahead to the housing valuation system. He also said he saw opportunities in a housing tax approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u102	Minister, I'm interrupting. You said you'd leave the judgment to the Chamber, but it's customary for you to say what your verdict is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u103	If I can explain the motion in that way, she's a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u104	And you'll leave the judgment to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u105	Yes. So Mr van der Linde asked me to look ahead to the housing valuation system and a housing charge approach, possibly in conjunction with the ibo on the rent allowance. I will at least send the Chamber both. I cannot yet fully assess whether that combination is obvious, but I will come up with a preview of the combination between the housing rating system and the energy costs. Mrs Schouten asked for that too. I'm sure we can do that before the summer. The ibo does not specifically address the housing valuation system. Whether it becomes one report or two different, let me depend a little bit on the tone of the ibo, which of course I don't know yet. We will certainly be discussing this with each other. Mr Bashir tabled a motion calling on the government to encourage tenants' housing costs to fall when an energy performance compensation is requested. Because of the system of energy performance compensation, I cannot undertake to do so, because the component of one's own behaviour continues to play a role in this. That is why I cannot support the motion as it stands. I even have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u106	I am of course talking about the same behaviour: if the behavior remains the same, the tenant must also notice something in his wallet. I am not, of course, talking about extreme situations, such as neighbours who come to him to recharge their equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u107	That is a useful addition, but I will run into another dilemma. It is now being examined in the consultation between tenant and landlord whether the proposed energy performance compensation is acceptable. It is very difficult for me to have any influence when the tenants themselves have agreed to the energy performance compensation, even though, for example, it is, on balance, equal to what they are paying now, for example, because they find energy saving a good cause and also appreciate the improvement of the home. So I can't deprive the tenants of that right. I like it better if that decision is with the tenants themselves than if she was here, so I think it's so well arranged. Despite this addition by Mr Bashir, I continue to dissuade his motion, because otherwise I would actually overrule the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u108	I would ask the Minister to stick to the text of the motion because it does not say that there should be overruled. The motion is about stimulating.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u109	When a motion is formulated so broadly, it is not without obligation. With all due respect, this is a broad wish. Mr Bashir will later ask me exactly what I did. It is therefore logical for me to explain what I can do in advance. We have already comprehensively framed the decision-making process on whether or not to agree to an energy performance compensation, with ceilings in the law, but also with the 70% that is needed, and perhaps even more importantly, with the 70% that is needed. That is why I do not see how I can give substance to this motion. If I can make a motion, from Mr Bashir or from anyone else, I will not fail to do so, but I simply cannot fill it in because the balance can be made locally and can therefore be different from what is stated in the motion. In such a case, it is a democratic decision by mature people, which I simply cannot go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u110	We're on our way to the third motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u111	Mr Bashir has also tabled an amendment to which I have not yet responded, so I am doing so. In the amendment to item No. 9 is asked to always make a heavy front for changes to the AMvB. I promised I'd put the AMvB that's coming in front of me. Of course, the Chamber can, if it so wishes, make all kinds of changes. A heavy front is quite a procedure in this house. If I have to do that every time in the next few years, that's quite a signal to the investors. I was just having a discussion with Mr De Vries about the investor's wish to clarify the reimbursement for solar cell return. I also indicated that there is a broad wish among investors about certainty about the earned assets. When we say in The Hague 'Dear investors, we want to have a political debate on your remuneration every year', we send a very strong signal. I fear that investors will realise that politics will want to continue to interfere with this in the years to come. I do not think this is good for the investment climate around the energy performance compensation. However, I also have the wish that this legislative proposal should be an incentive to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u112	That is why you are rejecting the amendment to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yes. I now also have the amendment to item No. Fourteen. This amendment further strengthens the criterion when the energy performance compensation can now be calculated. The wording now used in this amendment actually limits the possibility of applying the energy performance compensation even further, while we want to promote that zero-on-the-meter housing, with good guarantees for tenants, regulated by law and the usual decision-making process. Then I really do not think it is wise to raise any more bumps in the law for the use of this energy performance compensation. That means, I fear, that in the end there will be a lot less zero-on-the-meter homes. So it is not quite Mr Bashir's day, I fear, because this amendment, too, I am not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u114	For the sake of completeness, I would like to add what is really meant by the amendment, namely that when an energy performance compensation is requested, we really need to move towards a zero-on-the-meter house and not to variants in between. The additional advantage of this is that tenants do not get double housing costs, because they also pay for investments via the housing points system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u115	The wording 'double housing costs' is far from my point of view. Tenants will simply not agree to that either. Again, 70% of them must give permission. The amendment further restricts the possibilities of using an energy performance compensation. That means it'll happen less. I find that undesirable, and I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u116	I believe that the Minister is still expressing himself very diplomatically or in a parliamentary capacity. Mr Bashir will put a bomb here under the whole bill. A landlord who wants to take a few meaningful steps with his house with energy label G would not be able to pass it on. It is a bit unfortunate to say that to Mr Bashir through the Minister, but this really is a cardinal change to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u117	I would like to thank Mr van der Linde for his observation that I am expressing myself in a parliamentary capacity. I will not contradict the fact that the amendment is also a bomb under the law. If this will prevent many investors from making the investments that we want them to do, it will indeed be harmful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u118	The amendment is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u119	Sure. Mrs Schouten asked me when I would like to present a preview of the ambitions of energy policy. I will do that in the context of the National Energy Exploratory and it will come this autumn. Then I also have the total picture. This does not mean that I will not be returning to the Chamber in the meantime, but at that point I would like to come forward with a view. Mrs Schouten has tabled two motions. In the motion in part No. 12 the government is invited to examine how tenants can obtain additional guarantees that they will not have to pay too high an energy performance fee and inform the Chamber within one year. I am happy to say that, but not because I am concerned that the current system is not working properly. I told Mr Madlener that I would keep my finger on the pulse, even in the first year. So I say this anyway, but if the motion is going to be put to the vote, then the formal judgment is Chamber, I think. I am afraid I have more difficulty with Mrs Schouten's second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mrs Schouten has another comment on the first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u121	If the Minister promises to do so, he says he's just gonna do it. I don't have to put the motion to the vote. So I withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u122	Since the Schouten motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u123	In the motion in part No. 13 The Government is invited to adjust the appropriate allocation scheme in such a way that, when appropriate, on the basis of the energy index or the energy performance compensation, the total housing costs will be taken into account and the Court will be informed of this in the autumn. With this motion, too, I shall think on the spot about what this would mean. Appropriate allocation has been deliberately introduced with the support of the majority of the Chamber to ensure that sufficient affordable rentals are available for low-income people. In addition, we would like to encourage housing corporations and other landlords to invest in energy saving. If I were to also close the energy costs when allocated appropriately, that would be a rather threatening prospect for corporations. I'm afraid they won't be investing any more cheerfully. Then they will think: if we take a few steps, then we will be seared shut. As part of Mrs Schouten's earlier motion, I have already promised to explore what an obligation to go to zero-on-the-meter homes would mean in the coming years and that I would return to that before the summer. In that answer, I would like to go into a little more detail than I can do at the moment in terms of what it would mean to ensure that energy performance is also taken into account when appropriate allocation is made. However, the motion before us now states that it must be done now. My first feeling is that this is a step too soon. I would therefore advise against the motion as it stands. However, I would like to say to Mrs Schouten that in the letter, in which I will carry out her other motion in any case, I will also address the question of how to use energy performance, perhaps, I cannot promise that it can be used in the allocation of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u124	That seems to me to be a reasonable commitment. For my clarity, this is the letter that comes before the summer, so for the budget for Housing and National Service?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u125	Yeah, it's coming for the budget anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u126	Then I'll take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u127	At the request of Mrs Schouten, I propose her motion (34228, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked whether the energy label was sufficiently reliable to enable investments such as energy performance compensation. For the energy performance compensation, the energy index shall be used. That's an index you only get from certified people or companies. So for this, the procedure is just heavier. Mr Madlener remains critical, but I am glad to hear that he too feels that it is in the interests of tenants that social housing should be renovated on a large scale and be more energy efficient. So I hope it will lead him to support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u129	I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues for their input. The vote will take place next Tuesday. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch. Immediately after the beginning of the afternoon meeting, we will begin our work on the arrangements.
