ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service. I call Mr Van der Linde of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. After today's dramatic events, it is uncomfortable to pick up the pace and begin ordinary Question Time. But we must not let our lives be dominated by what has happened and do our ordinary work; therefore. More and more mortgage providers charge a premium on the ordinary interest rate in the event of an extension or transfer of a mortgage without repayment. The Vereniging Eigen Huis receives complaints from its members about this and has listed the premiums. Often it is an extra 0.2% and that costs house owners hundreds of euros a year. The same applies to the extension of existing savings mortgages. Especially Dutch people over 60 years of age are affected by this problem and that group often has a house with considerable overvalue, so the banks are hardly at risk. That feels unjust, especially when you consider how enthusiastic banks have been selling redemption-free mortgages for 15 years. This coalition has rightly intervened in this and reduced the mortgages to one understandable product. Anyone who takes out a mortgage will pay off nicely and understands what he's agreed to with the bank. That was necessary, too. The Temporary Committee on House Prices noted in 2013 that unbridled lending was one of the main causes of an impeccable growth in house prices. With the current low space, that could have happened again. It feels agitated that people who bought a refund-free mortgage between 2000 and 2010 should now be punished for that. On the contrary, you would expect the market to work so well that older people with a small mortgage would pay less. I have the following questions for the Minister. Does he share the view that homeowners pay for a risk that does not exist in most cases? What alternatives do these people have? Is the Minister prepared to talk to the banks, whether or not with his colleague in the Treasury, to get that 0.2% off?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde refers to an investigation by the Eigen Huis Vereniging Eigen Huis, which shows that, in the case of non-refundable mortgages, a rate of 0.2%, or in that order of magnitude, is generally applied in excess of that of redeeming mortgages. He was right to point out that this cabinet for new mortgages using the tax deductibility option introduced that it would be repaid in order to reduce risks as well. However, many people still have a debt-free mortgage from the past. They may retain them, but in the event of the expiry of the interest period, they face the question of what rate they are offered. Mr Van der Linde noted that there would increasingly be a premium on the unpaid mortgage. We have tried this morning to find out whether we can discover a historical pattern in it, but our picture is that there has always been a difference in rates between redemption-free and redeeming mortgages. This does not alter the question of whether this is justified. Mr Van der Linde asks whether it is logical that people should pay for the risk of a debt-free mortgage. Of course, different components are included in the tariff. On the one hand the risk that is often linked to the height of the mortgage compared to the height of the value of the house. On the other hand, financing costs which may differ between a redeeming and a redemption-free mortgage. That could be an explanation. Mr Van der Linde then asks whether there are alternatives to these people. They can theoretically opt for a paying mortgage, but they will often not want it or they do not have the resources to do so. Mr Van der Linde's third question is whether I should like to talk to the banks about whether this storage is still justified. I have previously promised the Chamber that in the short term I will sit down with the benches to speak about a number of questions that live with her and me. I have an appointment with the banks next month, but also with the insurers, because the banks are no longer the biggest providers of mortgages in the Netherlands. That is good news, because it leads to more competition, but I will also talk to other providers about this question. The essence is then: is it justified that there is a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	I thank the Minister for his answers. The VVD understands very well that mortgage rates are created in a market and cannot be imposed from above. However, this market is still not functioning perfectly and there is ongoing consultation between the authorities and market players. Our problem is this. Seniors may be able to redeem something, but they hardly have the opportunity to take the money out of their homes at a later stage. Anyone who wants to build a stair lift at 75 can't go to his mortgage provider to take out a mortgage. If you have that situation in mind, you'd rather not relieve yourself. My colleague Aukje de Vries has already tabled a motion on this subject, which has been widely supported in the Chamber. That motion relates to the ope-dining mortgages, mortgages that allow you to cash a piece of your house in your old age. Can the Minister include these dietary mortgages in the same conversations? After all, there is a logical connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	This motion was tabled, I believe, in a debate with Mr Dijsselbloem. I will discuss this with him and it is obvious that I will also take this opportunity into account in my conversation with the banks. I have also mentioned to the Chamber earlier that the construction of an operatorial mortgage may be attractive, but that in the past it has gone wrong because it has been eaten too quickly and made people into financial problems. It can therefore be an attractive product, if it is carefully granted. The crux of the question about the motion is, however, whether I am taking it with me, and I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and, above all, for his willingness to take these issues with him. I continue to feel that those who take out a mortgage should also be able to rely on compliance with the rules of the game that have been agreed upon. Of course, interest rates change, but an extra raise just feels unfair. We will undoubtedly also discuss this with the Minister in another debate on the state of the housing market. I have one more question. Does the Minister see the risk that, if we don't manage that eating mortgage properly, all kinds of cowboys will come onto the market with products that are much less desirable than such an eating mortgage?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	A provider of a credit product, including an eating mortgage, is, of course, subject to financial supervision. In the financial world there is always the risk of cowboys trying, but because of the way in which the AFM organises supervision, we have built in the necessary safeguards against it. I've already indicated that in the past things have really gone wrong with eating mortgages. So it is a product that we certainly should not make impossible, but that must be carefully placed on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	I agree with the question just asked by the colleague of the VVD. I heard Hans André de la Porte from the Association Eigen Huis give the following advice to the elderly: make sure you keep some money in hand for care, and therefore do not relieve your mortgage, when you are older. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	I don't know if it's ministers' job at all to give advice to grown-up people, but when I was a little boy, I got all the advice to keep some money in the hand for difficult times. In my opinion, that advice remains important regardless of someone's age.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	While interest rates are falling, the VVD Group is, quite rightly, concerned about 0.2%. However, I also see that rents from tenants have increased by more than 28% in recent times. The Minister talks with the mortgage lenders about the 0.2% to see what is possible, but when is this minister going to worry about the rents, which have increased by more than 28%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	If Mr Bashir uses figures in debates, we must always pay attention. If the period is long enough, it will undoubtedly be 28%, but it is good to mention the period. Mr Bashir asks me when I intend to do so. The House of Representatives has recently dealt with a law in which rent increases in housing corporations are limited by the rent sum. That law is currently in the First Chamber. I very much hope that I know that housing corporations hope that this law will be dealt with quickly. This means limiting the rent increase for tenants in housing corporations.
