ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	Madam President. For the umpteenth time, we are talking intensively with each other about what is happening in Groningen with the extraction of natural gas and with the earthquakes caused by natural gas extraction and, above all, its impact on the people living in Groningen. As I have said many times and as spokesmen have often said, these people have not asked for anything, but they are confronted with it. We feel that we are quite right to be responsible for this. I think it is very important for me to ensure that the safety risk and the risk of damage in the area is reduced as much as possible. As the spokesmen have done, I have been committed to this. We can see together that the results are there as well. I compare the situation not with the first year of the cabinet, 2013, but with the year before, 2012. Compared to that year, the present decision represents a halving of natural gas extraction. Changes are also taking place in the results obtained in Groningen. In 2013 there were 29 palpable earthquakes; these are earthquakes that are heavier than 1.5 on the Richter scale; in this year there are so far 8. So that number has gone from 29 to 8 so far in this year. It could be that this year's figure is two thirds less than in 2013. The worst earthquake in 2012 was 3.6 on the Richter scale. The worst earthquake so far in this year was 2.4 on the Richter scale. This means that a factor of 36 less energy has been released than in the 2012 earthquake. So much has changed in the power of the earthquakes, as in the number of earthquakes. Together with the reduction of gas extraction, important facts have been laid down which are a basis for restoring a normal situation in Groningen, to ensure that people feel safe and comfortable in their own area and to remove the mistrust that exists among people. You can only take that away and you can only change that if you actually achieve and realize something. I believe that these concrete results, as a result of what has happened in recent years in the interplay between the Chamber and the Cabinet, are a very good basis for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	We haven't agreed on the number of interruptions, but we're supposed to do it the same way we did this morning. So three interruptions, preferably in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	I can follow what the minister says, but I'm afraid he's charging himself too quickly. Last week's round table also showed that the total seismicity or seismic moment may not have decreased between 2012 and 2015. In that sense, we are not yet there. The center of gravity of the quakes shifts south. This is also consistent with the halting of extraction in the middle of the area, near Loppersum. From that point of view, should you not choose to set the level of profits for another year, after which we can see next year whether it has been another favorable year in terms of earthquakes and on that basis we can take a decision? I really think that we should welcome this five years too soon, on the basis of the Minister's opening move.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	I don't count myself rich, and I count all the earthquakes in the area. Of course, it's about feelings in the area. It is wise to ignore the facts. Those facts are that as a result of what has happened over the past four years, the number of palpable earthquakes of at least 1.5 on the Richter scale in total, throughout the area, has fallen from 29 to so far in this year 8. The year is not over; we still have more than a quarter ahead of us. It is also a fact that the most severe earthquake in 2012 was 3.6 on the Richter scale and the heaviest earthquake so far this year released a factor of 36 less energy in the area. So this is a big difference with the year 2012 and the heavy earthquake at Huizinge. So I do not count myself wealthy and I do not think we are there at all, but I do think it is important to note that, as a result of what we have done with each other, important steps have been taken at least as far as the facts are concerned: reduction of natural gas extraction and reduction of seismicity. It's good to face that, too. I shall now turn to the duration of the assent decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Can I just leave it at half an interruption so I can have half of it left?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	We have had several opinions on the duration of the assent decision. First of all, I would like to mention the analysis of GTS, which states that for the security of supply in an average year, a minimum of 24 billion cubic metres of natural gas is needed for the period up to 2020, i.e. for the next four years. GTS assumes that the demand for natural gas will decrease by around 2 billion a year from 24 billion in 2020 until we reach 7 billion cubic metres in 2029. That was the first point of departure. In the period from now until 2020, according to GTS, 24 billion cubic metres are needed for security of supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	I suggest the Minister finish this piece first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	I'd be happy to. On the level analysed by GTS, the spokesmen said: it was much more at first and now that it is much less, it is the question why it should not be any less. When I started this dossier at the beginning of this cabinet period, security in the area and security of supply were not the only two principles on which we sent. They were at that time to a much lesser extent than they are now. This has changed since the earthquake in Huizinge and the sharp advice given by the State surveillance of the mines we received at the time. Before that, gas was produced that heated the Netherlands, that we could export and with which we could make money. The agreements that were made, with the necessary nuances, were valid for ten years. That was a different period. From the moment we are really going to have security and security of supply, the level has been set at 33 billion cubic metres per year, which would be minimal. At that time this was further counted and ultimately the result was 31 billion cubic metres. Then we saw a few changes. Firstly, we have moved from a cold year to an average year. Secondly, the Wobbe figures, the figures expressing the calorific content of natural gas, have been changed and other conclusions have been drawn. Moreover, the analyses of temperature, temperature development and temperature profiles have changed. All in all, the changes and the consistent pressure to really look for the minimum security of supply have led to an analysis of GTS which states that in half the years a level of 24 billion cubic metres is sufficient to ensure security of supply. As it is colder, more is needed in a number of years, but we have determined very precisely and transparently that it is only possible to win more than 24 and never more than 6 billion cubic metres extra. That is the first thing that has happened for the level of 24 that is now being discussed. Secondly, the SodM has stated that all kinds of conditions must be attached to the consent that can be given to the extraction plan. These are harsh conditions that the NAM cannot meet at the moment and which it will have to work on in the coming years. In addition, the SodM argued that, for several reasons, it is necessary to clarify the period during which the extraction decision can be taken, also for a slightly longer period. The final advice of the SodM was to ask for a new extraction plan in March 2021. I myself thought that I could advance this six months and made it 1 October 2020. For example, I can take a year to assess the extraction plan, including all associated participation and so on. This will enable us to reach a decision in October 2021. So much for the SodM. Then came the Miners' Council. Having overseen all the opinions of GTS, the SodM, the Tcbb, it felt that it was a major risk that procedures would be mixed up. A lot has to be done to reach a decision on a extraction plan. The Mines Council found that we fell from one procedure to the next, that one has not finished before the other starts running. This, in conjunction with the conclusion of the SodM that the NAM needs several years to meet the strict conditions and the conclusion of GTS regarding the level of 24 billion m over a period of five years, until 2021, has led the Mining Council to indeed assume a period of five years for which the mining decision could now be taken. Those were the opinions I received and the conclusions I drew from them. The Mining Council also believes that after a period of two years it will be necessary to assess whether this five-year period and the level of 24 billion m can actually be maintained. I think it would be a good idea to list developments from one year to the next. Are there any new developments in technology? Are there any new developments in the calculation of temperature? Are there other developments, for example regarding safety or changed circumstances, which should lead us to different insights as to the duration of the period and the extent of the gas extraction? I think it's a good idea to get this straight from year to year. I also think it is important that in the amended Mining Act, which the House of Representatives has adopted and which will shortly be discussed in the First Chamber, besides all other existing possibilities in the interests of safety or the prevention of damage, the Minister has the opportunity to take a different decision on the volume of gas extraction than that originally taken for that five-year period in the event of changing circumstances or changes in insights. I can see from year to year what the situation is, what the facts are, how I estimate it and what advice I have received on it. I will certainly also discuss this from year to year with those in the area who advise me to ensure that we have the whole picture. For example, during that five-year period, we can examine, in the interim and from year to year, whether these changed circumstances and new insights occur, in the interests of safety or the prevention of damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	The minister magics numbers and he creates fog. He literally said that from 2021 onwards, we need 2 billion less every year. But in his letter of September 12, he writes "from 2020," not "from 2021." That seems marginal, but that's a lot. The decision will be for five years. And in his letter, the Minister writes that after three years we need 2 billion cube gas less and that after two years we need 4 billion cube less in total five years. Now the Minister says that we have postponed this for a year, but in that five-year period that is very much so. So I wonder what the Minister means. Will the reduction start from 2020, as he writes, or will it start from 2021, as he says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	I never conjure up numbers; I try to give the best possible insight into the situation and also to make clear what conclusions I have drawn from it. I am therefore always trying to present the figures to the Chamber as clearly as possible. From the year 2020, gas demand is expected to fall, up to the year 2029. A reduction of 24 billion to 7 billion is foreseen. The extraction will go down by an average of 2 billion a year. For the years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 the level will be 24 billion cubic metres. After the year 2020, this decline will take place. That is why I said that I want a new extraction plan by October 2020. Then I have a year to assess that. Then we can make a decision again for a longer period. If there are any interim changes, we really do not have to wait until the year 2020. We can make a decision on this in 2019, 2018 or 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	So I understand that the letter of 12 September is not correct. The Minister writes "from 2020', but he means "after 2020', i.e. "from 2021'. If the Minister already knows that the gas level, the production level, can be reduced, why is the decision still being taken for a period of five years? Why not look at how gas production might be further reduced in the near future? After all, we are not talking about five years, but in the view of the Minister we are talking about four years from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	That five-year period is the result of the advice I have received. It was first of all the analysis of SodM, where it was stated that a level of 24 billion cubic metres is necessary and that this decrease occurs from 2021 onwards. In the first year, this is a decline from 24 billion to 22 billion. I have just indicated why State supervision of the Mines has said that a new extraction plan should be requested as of 1 March 2021. I said that I would do this a little earlier, namely on 1 October of the year 2020. And I have indicated why the Mining Council, overlooking all the opinions, has also said that a five-year period should be chosen because of the fact that procedures are going to be mixed up. As regards the conditions that we have now imposed and the changes that we have made, we need to look at how things are developing in practice and what conclusions we can draw from them. We can't do that in the short term. Those are the arguments for choosing a period of five years with the restriction I have just indicated, namely that I have the opportunity to change in the meantime. I also intend to do so if there is reason to do so. And I intend to exchange this with the Chamber every year so that she has an annual understanding of the decision I will make and she can talk to me about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	We have indeed had gas debates here with great regularity. The Minister first told us that 39 billion cubs had to be won because of security of supply. Not soon after, it was 33 billion cube. Then it was 27 billion cuub and now it must be 24 billion cuub because of the security of supply. However, if you look closely at the letter of 8 June 2016 from GTS that we received to explain how this 24 billion cuub is being obtained, it turns out that this is not related to the security of supply. There is between 2 billion and the 4 billion cube that comes on top of that, just because we want to win flat. If we were to win from non-planet, we could come with 2 billion cuub to 4 billion cuub less. It is therefore not because of the security of supply. The same letter also states that there is a reduced market demand in France and Belgium. That confirms the company ENGIE. This would allow a further 1 billion cub to be removed. So that 24 billion cub is not because of the security of supply. Then why is the Minister holding on to a certain number of cube for five years in this case, when this can really go down? After all, if we agree on one thing, this is the following: the less gas is extracted, the safer it is for the Groningen people. In any case, all parties, advisory and scientific bodies shall adhere to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mrs Van Tongeren comes up with a lot of statements which she tries to package in a question. One of its claims is that the amount of 24 billion cubic metres is not based on the security of supply. This is only an example of what she has said that is not true. From a certain point on, we have been very conscious about safety and security of supply, as I have just said. Then the 33 billion m was shown, which we changed to 31 billion m for reasons I shared with the Chamber at the time. We first assumed a cold year, but then moved on to an average year. There have then been changes in temperature profiles, market demand and the Wobbe index. All this has led to GTS now advising me to keep 24 billion m as at least necessary for the security of supply in an average year, provided that in years that it is colder and as colder as it is, I allow more to be won, with a maximum of 6 billion m. That's GTS' advice. Mrs Van Tongeren pointed out that there was a difference of about 2 billion m, which should be won more. I'm assuming the 24 billion m I've communicated to the Chamber. That is the level I have set on the basis of the opinions. GTS has made calculations assuming that existing nitrogen installations could be used 100% continuously at a given point in time. A realistic estimate of how these nitrogen installations can be used is 85%; so does GTS. All in all, the advice of GTS has led me to decide on a total of 24 billion m. This is in line with what GTS eventually advised me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	The Minister has often had to say in the Chamber that the version given by Mrs Van Tongeren is a little more in keeping with the reality than the version given by the Minister. That is also true in this case. On page 7, at the top, under the heading "Groningen even," GTS literally writes that the deployment of the Groningen gas field increases by 2 to 4 billion cubs when evenly extracted. This is not the result of the security of supply, but of the choice to switch to the method of flat winning. As we heard in the hearing, winning flat is not a scientific basis. Scientists said there might be a gut feeling. What everyone agrees on is this: the less you win, the less you need. I would like to get the Minister's recognition of this in the second term, or even later, that in the opinion of GTS, on page 7, it is true that we are winning 2 to 4 billion cubs, only on a gut feeling of all experts. The Minister can go along with that and decide to do so, but that is not because of the security of supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	The advice to me is to keep a minimum of 24 billion m for security of supply. That's enough for an average year. If it's colder than in an average year that can be calculated in a number of grade days.............................................................................................................................................................................................. As it gets colder, I'll also give permission to win more. This will be known within one month of the end of the relevant gas year. So that doesn't take three-quarters of a year, as was just said, but a month. Then, as far as we have to, we will win more than that 24 billion m. However, the amount of 24 billion m is the advice I have finally received and the decision I have taken. Mrs van Tongeren spoke about flat mining and said that the experts disagree. I read in the opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines that this organisation considers winning at a level of importance. It has also been able to observe that flat winning has a positive effect on reducing seismicity. Just to keep that seismicity as low as possible, the SodM advises to sit on that 24 billion cube, so that as much flat as possible is won. And how great exactly the positive effect of this flat extraction is, the SodM cannot say at this time. That requires further investigation. This will require further measurement data that will be available in the coming years. If that information is there, we'll know more. That is one of the reasons why it should be possible, in the next five years, to decide, in the event of changes in insights and changed circumstances, to change the amount of 24 billion cubic metres we have committed to the extraction decision. It must be possible to take a different decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	I have a lot of questions for the Minister. I'll try to limit myself. The State surveillance of the Mines has written a fairly critical opinion on the documents submitted by the NAM. The measurement and control protocol is insufficient; the models used to calculate the safety risk are also insufficient. So the NAM just got homework. I hear the Minister talking about a five-year extraction plan, about a consent decision for that period. Why does the Minister not decide on a one-year extraction decision so that we can look again at the documents before us? What stick does the Minister have behind the door if we agree to that five-year period? Something must be done. Those models just need to be better. The rule protocol needs to be put in place as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	I will come back later to talk about the measurement and control protocol. It has been asked why the cabinet has decided on five years instead of four years. I've just explained the content. I also note that this is in accordance with the opinion of the State Monitoring of Mines. It is also in accordance with the opinion of the Mining Council. It is also in line with the analysis made by GTS. That is why we have chosen for five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	The State surveillance of the Mines has advised to proceed to a extraction level of 24 billion cubic metres as long as the measurement and control protocol and the models are not yet in order. To my surprise, State surveillance on the mines keeps the road open to gain more gas in Groningen. The Minister said that this is not a passable path for him. I think that's a good choice. I note, therefore, that the Minister also makes his own assessment, other than the State's supervision of the Mines. Why is the Minister not following State surveillance on this point, which I think is quite right? And why does the Minister not say: I want to go one step further; in view of the criticism that the State surveillance itself has, I shall proceed to a decision of one year and then we will look further?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	I consider State surveillance of the Mines to be of the utmost importance in this whole file. I also greatly appreciate the way in which State supervision of the Mines operates. But it is not the case that the head of State control of the Mines is accountable to the Chamber. That's me. The final decisions on the extraction plan are also taken not by the State surveillance, but by the government. We have the very important advice of State surveillance, but we also have the important advice of the Mining Council and we also have the analyses of GTS. I also have my own official advice. So there are all kinds of advices and analyses that come to me. I make a proposal to the cabinet, and on the basis of my proposal, the cabinet makes a decision. Any deviation from advice is not a disqualification from an opinion, but that is simply trying to reach the best possible decision on the basis of all the opinions and analyses. Indeed, there are two derogations between the advice of State supervision of the Mines and the decision we have taken. Firstly, the SODM suggests the possibility, if there are reasons, of increasing the 24 billion to 27 billion. We don't offer that space. Secondly, it has been said: ask for a new extraction plan as of 1 March 2021. I had it done by 1 October 2020. I think that's marginal deviations. The government's decision is in line with the advice of State surveillance and I am very grateful to State surveillance for the in-depth advice I receive from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	Less gas extraction means less tremors and therefore less damage and more safety. I think we all agree on that. Now the Minister wants to win 24 billion cubs this year. At the same time, one of the customers says: we want to decrease less. Then why can't they just take less? That's in the best interest of all of us, isn't it? Why don't you lower the gas extraction by a few billion cubic feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr President, what am I doing with this? I have a lot of questions to answer from nine spokesmen. I'm trying to cluster that a little bit. I may, of course, have to jump from one subject to another because of interruptions. If that's what the Chamber wants, I will. Otherwise, I'll keep the logical sequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	What's that logical order? It might be important for the MPs to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	With my interruption, I am continuing with Mrs Van Tongeren's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	I am now working on the level of gas extraction and the period for which the government has decided. I will come to the terms of the assent decision and to the settlement of claims. I shall deal with future damage treatment, the reinforcement exercise, the cultural heritage and a number of other points. I will certainly end up with one of these points in the letter from ENGIE. I could do it now, too, but then I'll get it all mixed up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	You don't have to. If the subjects are so delineated, it is indeed good to do so. This will give Members of Parliament the opportunity to ask questions about this. Can we make this appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	In fact, Mrs Van Tongeren asked for the same thing in her interruption. I'm asking for it now and I don't see why this can't be done now. I'd appreciate it if I could, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	That is possible, but I would like to make the proposal to see if we can give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions raised in the first period on the basis of his classification. When he is done with that, the MPs can continue to do so or ask other questions about what the minister says. You look so angry, Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	Just to clarify, you propose that the Minister should reply in blocks and that we should be able to ask a question at the end of each block? As far as the Minister was concerned, this block dealt with the level of gas extraction. Is he at the end of what he wanted to say about that? I have another question on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	I've gone over three things. Firstly, on the five-year period, secondly, on the 24 billion cub level and, thirdly, on the information I receive annually and on the conclusion I draw from it, on the information to the Chamber and possibly on the debate with the Chamber on whether there are any changes in circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	I propose that the Minister respond to Mrs Klever's question and then we move on to the new proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. I'm like laundry in your hands. If this is what you want, I'll do it. The company ENGIE has said that it believes that 2 billion cubic metres of natural gas would be needed less than the 24 billion cubic metres that I have said are needed. ENGIE says to want to take down less gas and need less gas. So according to ENGIE, less gas is needed, but that's a misunderstanding. It's not about what ENGIE signed for contracts. Nor is it about what is being traded on the gas exchange in Groningen. It's just the market doing its job there. When determining the level of 24 billion cubic meters you look at what is at least the real need of companies and people who depend on that low-caloric Groninger gas. What do you need at least for companies and people in the Netherlands, France, Germany and Belgium? That's what I'm dealing with. ENGIE's in there somewhere with a contract. They signed a contract at the time for a quantity of gas and for a price they now think: we would rather not do that, that quantity for that price, and we want to change that. Then they have a conflict with the person with whom they have concluded the contract, namely GasTerra. They will also have to deal with GasTerra. In any case, this does not mean that we would be less in need of the low-caloric Groningen gas. We have talked this through with ENGIE once again and ENGIE admitted in that conversation that this does not indeed lead to the need for 22 billion cubic metres instead of 24 billion. This is a contractual matter between two parties who each bear their own responsibility. I like to let them resolve that dispute, as is often the case in that world. Sometimes they agree, sometimes they disagree. There are arbitrations and such. That's their world. My world is that I look at what is needed at least for security of supply. That's the level I'm holding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	The Groninger gas is unique gas. It's low-caloric gas. Many households in the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium and France depend on low-caloric gas. ENGIE supplies a large part of Belgium and all French users with low-caloric gas, the Groningen gas. They indicate: if we have to take away what is in our contract, we will have two billion cubic metres of low-caloric gas; we will then convert that into high-caloric gas. Isn't that a shame? On the one hand, we use nitrogen plants here to convert high-caloric gas into low-caloric gas. We then require a customer to take two billion cubic tons more low-caloric gas than that will. Then it converts it back into high-caloric gas. The real question is, of course, whether the 24 billion cube can simply be lowered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	We're not doing anything. It's two parties, GasTerra and ENGIE. They signed a contract with each other. So this is their responsibility. They do things. It is not that the gas would not be needed in France and Belgium, but apparently ENGIE has bought more gas than it can sell to its customers. Moreover, ENGIE finds the price too high. These things will have to be discussed with GasTerra, but on balance, customers in Germany, Belgium and France and customers in the Netherlands will need a certain minimum level. That's the 24 billion cubic meters. We checked it with the French and the Belgians just to be sure. They come to the same conclusions. They discussed it with ENGIE. ENGIE also understands that it's not going to be 22, but it's going to be 24. If ENGIE has purchased more gas than it can sell to its customers, it should simply sell that gas. There's a market for that. ENGIE will then catch a certain price for that. I do not know how it relates to the price that ENGIE has agreed with GasTerra, but that is a responsibility of market players that I am not going to enter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	This was the last block on the level of gas extraction. The CDA would like to see the level of gas extraction further lowered, as far as possible. One of the possibilities lies with industry. That will require investment. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter yesterday. Can he take us into the savings that lie there? What are the possibilities of transforming this into sustainable solutions? And on what time can that be? If we now decide to agree to 24 billion cubic metres for five years, we must have taken a serious look at this. How does the Minister view this in relation to the reduction of the ceiling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	I'll come back later to the nitrogen plant that might be built in Zuidbroek. The same applies to the adaptation of industries and power plants in the Netherlands. It is possible to convert five major industries in the Netherlands from low-caloric to high-caloric gas. It is also possible to convert two power plants from low-caloric to high-caloric gas. If we do that, it will have an effect around 2020, but from 2021 onwards we will see gas demand drop. The question is whether it is wise to invest such large amounts in a conversion from fossil to fossil. Is it not much wiser to continue to focus on what we are doing consistently in the other debates, namely on the transition from fossil to sustainable, from fossil to renewable energy and on heat instead of gas? I think that's wise. A possible decision to convert industries and therefore to invest in fossil, convert and invest in power plants would, in my view, best be taken together with a decision on the nitrogen plant which might be located in Zuidbroek. The best time to make that decision is, in my opinion, not now, but in a year, after the summer of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	The Minister is now talking about the nitrogen plant. A few years ago it was announced that it would have to be there for the safety of the Groningers. Now that is suddenly being deviated from. Can the Minister explain why he is doing this, knowing that investment in sustainability will take many years and must, in the meantime, guarantee the safety of the Groningen people?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	I could now switch from industry and power stations to Zuidbroek, but I would point out that this is how I move from one subject to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	I'm gonna make a deal with you guys about this anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	The question is, of course, about the level of gas extraction, and these are points that directly relate to it. I can imagine that we will be shooting back and forth on issues, but this is relevant to the level of gas extraction and thus to the gas extraction decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	Of course, and you are also entitled to an answer. If that question is not answered, you will also have the opportunity to ask it. We've agreed on three interruptions in two, but we can also work with cubes. After each block, you will have the opportunity to make an interruption. Then the debate, I hope, will proceed in an orderly manner. I imagine it's hard to jump from heel to branch. It's up to you. I can decide it myself, but I thought I'd do it democratically.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	If you don't mind my help. In his answer, the Minister himself lays down a relationship with Zuidbroek and there is a direct relationship with the level of gas extraction, namely through the level of demand. Let us stick to your proposal to work with blocks, but where there is an inseparable link, especially if that is laid down by the Minister, we do not want to be restricted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	You are present at this debate, so if that point had not been raised sufficiently, you will have the opportunity to come back to it. I now give the floor to the Minister to conclude this block and then the Chamber will have the opportunity to ask questions about it, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	Then let me meet both spokesmen and start with Zuidbroek. A factory would be built in Zuidbroek and it would require an investment of EUR 480 million. With that plant nitrogen is extracted from the air and added to high-caloric gas to bring it to the level of low-caloric gas. For that, we're investing half a billion dollars in fossil. Not in renewable, not in durable, not in heat, but in fossil. That investment came into view when two years ago GTS said to me: listen, we see that we do not have enough capacity to meet demand if it is a very cold winter and everyone starts running on a Monday morning, opening offices, starting factories and wanting people to have their homes warmer during the day than at night; something must be done about that and we think we need an extra nitrogen plant for that. I reported that to the Chamber, and I said that I did not want to run the risk that we would see things falling silent in the country in a cold winter on a Monday morning. The intention of the cabinet was to build a nitrogen plant there and to take a final decision on it at this time. In the meantime, GTS has come to me again. It has been said that the situation has changed. The first change concerns a reduced gas extraction from the Groningenveld in recent years. As a result of this reduction, there is more pressure in the Groningen field. If more gas is suddenly needed, a larger amount of gas can be extracted from the Groningen field. That's one. GasTerra has also managed to extend a rolling contract with TAQA for a gas field in the west of the country for a period of eight years. The storage of gas in that field makes it possible to supply a large quantity of gas in the short term, even more than a new nitrogen plant could supply. This combination of a high pressure on the Groningen field and the availability of a gas storage in the west of the country, which means that a lot of extra gas can be placed on the grid if necessary, has led to the conclusion that the plant is not necessary, different from what was thought two years ago. This modified analysis presented me with GTS. I know, of course, that such a gas plant is not only important for the capacity on a Monday morning in a cold winter. You can run a factory like this all the time, so you need less gas from Groningen. After all, you can convert high-caloric gas into gas with the same quality as the low-caloric Groningen gas. If we're gonna build that factory, it's not gonna run until the year 2020. From that same year on, demand for gas will fall. So you spend a number of years setting up a factory, which costs almost half a billion euros, and once the plant starts running, the demand for gas decreases. Based on that reduced demand, you have the ability to win less. You'll need that factory less, and in the long run you won't even need it at all. All in all, this is a difficult consideration to make. I didn't think it was possible to reach a conclusion yet. State surveillance has said that a significant reduction in seismicity has already been achieved. Where there was already 27 billion, there is now 24 billion. I believe that this has an important positive effect. State surveillance says that flat extraction also has an important positive effect, although it is not known exactly how big that effect is. We think we can say more about this in a year's time. If, in a year's time, we are considering whether there should be a mid-term consideration of the volume of raw materials over the next five years, I shall, as I have said, make an annual assessment and share it with the Chamber. I think it would be logical to look at what data has become available after a year. Then you can weigh all the recent figures related to the seismicity and you can make the assessment described in a responsible way. It is not, therefore, that some spokesmen said that the decision was made not to build the plant. It has been decided not to take that decision now, but not for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	You look invitingly at Mrs. Dik-Faber, but is this block ready? After all, we have just made an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	Then Mrs. Dik-Faber may intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	I have a question about the nitrogen plant. The Christian Union is really the very last group that wants to invest in fossil. At the same time, I see ourselves facing an incredibly big task of going to zero-on-the-meter houses, not only in the Netherlands but also in Germany. If we were to become truly independent of gas, we would have to transform 7 million homes in the Netherlands. For 25 years, that's 280,000 homes a year. If you take that up against the few hundred a year that we are doing now and take into account what is still to be done abroad, think of last week's call that we actually said: we have too few mechanics who can do all this, isn't it just very realistic that we are going to build that nitrogen plant? Not that I'm happy about that, but isn't that just the way it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	We have managed, in discussions with Germany, France and Belgium, to bring forward the conversion programme they had planned there. Indeed, Germany does not have enough mechanics at the moment. It has a number of years to get those mechanics available. Germany therefore plans to reduce its demand for Groninger gas by 10% per year from the year 2020. All this has been included in the analysis of GTS which ultimately leads to 24 billion m. In reply to Mrs Dik-Faber's question, I am not saying that the decision to build these gas plants should not be taken. I just do not think it is a good time to make that decision, because it is a difficult balance and not all the relevant data are available. I expect that more relevant data will be available in a year's time and that this consideration can be made better, also in conjunction with the other consideration I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	I would very much like to hear from the Minister what information he still needs. The task for our own country alone is enormous: it is 7 million homes; for 25 years, 280,000 homes per year have to be converted into zero-on-the-meter to become completely independent of gas. Are we gonna make it? I'm afraid that's not gonna work. I would very much like to put my finger on that. My group, together with D66 and the Labour Party, has tabled motions on this matter. We propose, for example, that it should be paid through the right of establishment so that it can be given a tremendous boost. Surely it is very realistic that we remain dependent on gas in the coming period? I'd much rather have gas from Norway than gas from Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	I have never said that we are going to make 7 million zero-on-the-meter homes in the Netherlands. Mrs Dik-Faber may think so, and she is saying so now, but I did not say so. In the estimate of 24 billion m towards the year 2029 going back to 7 billion m in terms of demand for the gas in Groningen, it is also not assumed that we will have 7 million zero-on-the-meter homes in the Netherlands. It is true that there is a strong movement in the Netherlands to achieve the transition to renewable energy and a better use of residual heat. We're all part of that. This movement and the realistic objectives we have set out on this basis have also been taken into account in the 24 billion m forecast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	The Minister says he wants to make a decision in a year's time, because he has more information on the basis of which he can carefully do so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	Sorry, Madam President. Now that Mrs Van Veldhoven says that, I realise that I have not answered Mrs Dik-Faber's question on that point. Can I do that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mrs Dik-Faber asked what other information I would have at my disposal in a year's time. I have already said that, but I would like to repeat that. The point is that State supervision has drawn the conclusion that as a result of flat extraction a profit can be achieved in terms of seismicity. Exactly how much profit that is, they don't know there. Above all, they need new measurement data. In the course of time they become available. More information on this is expected to be available in a year's time. We have already achieved a very significant reduction in seismicity. We need to look at the effects of this flat extraction and the decline to 24 billion. In view of this and the other factors involved, I think that we should make that decision in a year's time. It is also crucial that the gas plant that we can build will not run in six months, but at the earliest in 2020. After that, the decline in that question is going to play. I wanted to give that answer to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	What I would also need to do in order to make that assessment in a good way is to fill in that sustainability by simply reducing gas demand structurally instead of going from one fossil to another? What's this sustainability gonna look like? Is the Minister prepared to carry out a study next year on how to achieve a structural reduction in gas demand with the half-billion plus the money involved in the conversion of industry, and perhaps even capitalization of the energy bill, in those companies? That could be an alternative. Of course, we do not just have to meet gas demand in households.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	No. After all, we have already set very large, ambitious targets in the Energy Agreement in order to achieve 14% of renewable energy by 2020 and 16% in the year 2023. There are also very large targets for business. I can tell you that at the moment I have the greatest difficulty in achieving that and that it is all being realized. Together with the parties who have concluded the energy agreement and with the assurance committee set up by the Economic and Social Committee under the leadership of Mr Nijpels, we are working hard on this. We are doing everything we can to ensure that the very ambitious agreements are implemented. That doesn't require any new investigations. I want to keep those appointments. Of course, that has an effect on the demand for Groningen gas. That also means that the phasing-out is up to 7 billion cubic metres as I described it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	It's two-and-a-half. Whether the Minister says: we have to weigh up whether an investment in fossil to fossil, half a billion euros, including industry, is worth more than 650 million euros, as we may also be able to make it more sustainable. If I ask the Minister to map out what could make that amount more sustainable, he says he's not going to. But it's either one or the other. The Minister said earlier that, on the basis of the Mining Act, he could decide on a reduction in gas production on the basis of safety or the prevention of damage. Can this also be done on the basis of a reduction in demand in the market and, if so, does the Minister intend to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	I'm not saying I'm not gonna do anything. I keep saying I want to do things. I am the one who has led it so far, in interaction with the Chamber, to the situation that gas extraction has been halved compared to 2012. I can see, and hope that this will become a reality, that there will be two-thirds less palpable earthquakes this year than four years ago. I can see that perhaps this year's worst earthquake will produce a 36-fold less energy than in 2012. I am also the one who had the energy agreement concluded during this cabinet period. That agreement sets very ambitious objectives. So I am also the one who can link the profits from the energy agreement to the problems of Groningen. The profits of the energy agreement also contribute to the fact that in Groningen we can win much less natural gas than we thought at first. After 2020, we will see a rapid further decline in demand. It's not like I'm saying I'm not gonna do all kinds of things, because I do all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	I asked a second question. On the basis of the Mining Act, the Minister has the opportunity, in the context of security and damage prevention, to further reduce the ceiling of 24 billion cubic metres between now and the end of the year. Does the Minister also have that option on the basis of the demand reduction under the extraction decision, as he is now submitting it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	These are changed circumstances relevant to the prevention of damage and safety. On that basis, I can make a decision to win less than is stated in the mining decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	I have asked about the possibilities offered for additional gas extraction that would be needed in cold winters. I understand that there is more demand in a cold winter and that there is more demand from households in particular. I understand that more is being delivered when there is more demand. However, according to my data, the number of cold days is not being looked at, but rather at the number of cold days. That's a certain expectation. This would mean that the additional extraction in colder winters is not linked to the specific demand, but to the number of cold days. These things are, of course, separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	Of course, these things are not separate from each other. In a lot of cold days there is a lot of demand for natural gas. If there are many days like today, suppose you would have them in October and November too, then there is little demand for gas. There is, of course, a direct relationship between them. We're assuming an average cold year. In that we have enough 24 billion cubic meters. I can tell you that we have enough 27 billion cubic metres in 90% of the cases, but we have chosen 24 billion cubic metres, 50%. We have said that for each year we are going to see in a transparent way exactly how cold it is and how much extra is needed. How cold it is is determined by the degree dayssystematiek. This is public information; it can be tracked on a website via the KNMI. This will allow the extraction of natural gas to be adapted, but it will never be more than 6 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	Does the Minister realize that you will, of course, let go of control? After all, you do not rely on the question, but on an expectation. There is, of course, a relationship between these two, but the concrete question of what is needed for households should of course be leading. Now there is the possibility that if there are some cold days, more will be gained than necessary and that the gas will then be resold later. If you don't rely on the question, but on an expectation, you might win too much. Especially since it is the extra billion cubic metres of gas that can make the difference between whether or not an earthquake occurs, that is of course something that needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	With respect to Mr Wassenberg, I now have the suspicion that he is looking for nails on low water. I've said that a little extra can be won as it's colder than an average year, so only as it's colder. How can you best determine that? By looking very closely at those cold days. You can see that every day. These are the so-called graduation days; that is public information that everyone can follow. So I think we are doing it in the most logical and transparent way. I do not see the problems described by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	This is my second half-interruption. I can go along with the Minister's story about whether or not to invest in a nitrogen factory, because of course you do not make a very big investment if the demand falls a few years later. However, you have to be sure that the related decision is wise for five years now to sit at 24 billion cubic metres. Last week, Jan de Jong, the previous head of the SodM, noted the following during the round table meeting on the basis of the conclusions of the SodM. "The models and calculations of the NAM of the safety risk are of limited use for the preparation of an opinion on the extraction level. (...) SodM considers that the NAM overestimates the extent to which damage is found acceptable. (...) The Meet and Rule Protocol submitted is not to the satisfaction of the Inspector-General of the Mines."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	What page is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	This is a reader; that is a bit tricky.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	You're not going to read it to me, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	No, just what I made. That's quite a lot; no way! Several parties say that the total seismicity remained roughly the same from 2012 to 2015. That is why I have just said that I believe the Minister is a very wealthy man. I think you need to maintain that caution for a few more years before we can really see a pattern. I think the Minister is saying too quickly: the pattern is sister and everything. You just can't say that right now. That is why I once again call for the decision to be taken on 24 billion cubic metres, if we then take it for one year. Next year we will have a better view of how things are developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	I wonder why Mr Smaling says that seismicity has remained the same. I have said that since 2013 the number of palpable earthquakes has decreased from 29 to so far in this year 8. I have said that the worst earthquake compared to 2012 has released a factor of 36 less energy in the area. What is the point of saying here in this debate that seismicity has remained the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	All the experts said that to us last week. It's not my own suggestion or anything. It's in several places in that reader. I can give you that reader later. Then you can read it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	With all due respect, Mr Smaling does not have to give me anything, because I already have everything. Of course, it's all given to me. The figures I have just given are the figures. The earthquakes are monitored very accurately in terms of numbers and strength. You can feel them from 1.5. I've told you how these numbers are developing. I said what the worst earthquake was like: first 3.6, then 3.2, then 3.0, and so far this year 2.4. So you really see a similar gradient going down. Then it really makes no sense to say that the seismicity has remained the same. In terms of earthquakes, a significant decrease has been achieved in the past year as a result of what we have done in interaction here. I had and have great appreciation for Mr De Jong. He was in charge of State surveillance of the mines. Now he's retired. State surveillance on the mines is still there. At the time of Mr De Jong I received advice and now I also receive advice from his successor. It's the same state surveillance on the mines. That has now advised me to sit at a level of 24 billion m for a period of five years. The Mines Council, a very broad assembly, has studied all the opinions and told me: sit on a five-year period. Both opinions are in line with the analysis made by GTS. Then it is good that Mr De Jong has also said something, but these are the data on which I based myself in my advice to the cabinet and on which the cabinet based its decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	There are all leading geologists who say that the number of tremors is an indicator, but that this is not the indicator on which you have to leave completely. It concerns the total amount of seismic energy released, which was not reduced between 2012 and 2015. I would like to point that out. That should require caution and not fix anything for five years. I'm just gonna go with science.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	Just a moment, Mr. Smaling. I think you're quoting from a reader who only got MPs in connection with the hearing. Is that right? Then maybe it'll be useful if the minister has one too. Mrs. Van Tongeren says it's public. Does the minister have that reader?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	Yes, I have all the information I need at my disposal. Should Mr Smaling at any time think that he should give me additional information, I will accept it in gratitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	I shall now turn to what Mr Smaling has said. I find it very interesting that he reads that seismicity would have remained the same, but I say the following. The earthquakes in Groningen are causing the damage. Those earthquakes have been greatly reduced in numbers. Moreover, the severity of these earthquakes has been greatly reduced. This has a positive impact on the situation in Groningen. I really don't think I'm here yet. I am quite sure that I must be careful, as Mr Smaling also says. However, if we work together to achieve a better situation in Groningen and if the results are seen in the figures, it will have a positive impact on the Groningers. We should be happy about that. We must also see this as an incentive to continue along that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	We're still in the block about the extent of the gas extraction and the duration of the agreements, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u82	Do I understand correctly that we can simply adjust the extraction every year? To get it exactly, I'm referring to the Mining Act. Article 36 (3) of the Mining Act states that the Minister may withdraw his consent or amend the restrictions and regulations if justified by changed circumstances or insights. So if the Minister says that we make agreements for five years but that we can adjust the extraction downwards every year and at any time that is necessary on the basis of altered insights, does he actually refer to that article?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u83	The answer to Mr Vos' question is yes. For Mr Vos, what applies to me and what will also apply to my successor and to my predecessor, is that we try to reach decisions in a responsible way every time. We then consider whether there are changed circumstances, what these changed circumstances are and what the logical consequence of them should be. On the basis of the article quoted, which is additional to the provisions already in place, what Mr Vos has just said can indeed be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u84	If we agree to the extraction plan, then we do not commit ourselves in any way to the level of extraction. If we want to change that in a year's time because there are altered insights, then we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u85	The cabinet has taken a decision for five years. That is the subject of this debate. The amendment of the Mining Act, which has been adopted by the House of Representatives, is now before the Upper House. If accepted by the First Chamber, Mr Vos's article will apply. This means that we have the opportunity as expressed by Mr Vos. I intend to take stock every year of the situation, what new data are available and what conclusions the Cabinet considers should be drawn from it. They will be shared with the Chamber. The Chamber can discuss this with me or with my successor, and that leads to a conclusion. The conclusion may indeed be that the provision in the Mining Act which Mr Vos has just read is being used. So Mr Vos's brief wording is in line with what I said in a slightly longer way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u86	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u87	Maybe I need to say something about the domestic conversion of gas equipment. Gas equipment will be converted in France, Germany and Belgium. This can be done in those countries, because the equipment used there is suitable; it can be converted from low-caloric to high-caloric. We can't do that in the Netherlands. I have previously taken the decision that, as from 1 January next, only gas appliances which can be used with both low and high-caloric gas may be sold in the Netherlands. This means that at the moment in the Netherlands there are almost only devices that only work on low-caloric gas. If we were to move towards the use of high-caloric gas, we would have to replace all this equipment. That is going to cost many billions of euros and it would be another huge investment in fossil energy. I don't think that's wise either. I think it would be wise to consider what mix is possible of a certain amount of low-caloric gas from Groningen, high-caloric gas that is converted to the quality of Groningen gas, the transition to heat and the use of renewable energy. I am not ready to say that we are going to replace all existing equipment in the Netherlands with equipment suitable for the use of high-caloric gas. This is in addition to what I said earlier about the neighbouring countries. Mr Wassenberg asked me to draw up a phasing-out plan for gas extraction. I won't. It's my job to move from fossil to sustainable. That transition must be made as quickly as possible. During the interim period a certain amount of gas is still needed, which can be low-caloric but also high-caloric gas. Low-caloric gas has to do with the Groningen problem. We are now working on a policy to ensure that we limit the extraction of Groningengas to what is necessary for security of supply and, above all, to what is justified in terms of safety. I'd like to continue that line. So the main line is the transition from fossil to sustainable. Mr Smaling has asked when the Groningen field is empty. There's another 640 billion cubic meters of gas in Groningen. So if you win 24 billion cubic meters a year, it takes you about 25 years to clear the field. However, it is unrealistic to think that we will continue to win 24 billion cubic metres a year. If we continue to win, it will be at a lower level. Whether this is profitable depends on how long the gas field can be used. I don't have a visual on what's left in the gas field right now. That was the part about the level of gas extraction and the five-year period. Mr Bosman and Mr Smaling, Mrs Dik and Mrs Mulder spoke about the measurement and control protocol. This consists of two documents. The first is a technical document setting out how earthquake density and seismic risk are calculated and the calculation models underlying these calculations. The second is a protocol setting out the operations to be carried out if certain limit values are exceeded. Together, that's the measurement and control protocol. According to the SodM, that's not in order at the NAM. The SodM has indicated how this should be done. I have given the time to do so until 1 November 2017. I believe that a measurement and control protocol can be reasonably available that can meet the requirements. I'm not going to wait until 1 November 2017, so in the meantime I introduced an alarm system. It looks at the data on earthquake density and ground acceleration: how many earthquakes occur and what about their strength, expressed in ground acceleration? If the limit values we are setting are exceeded, then the NAM must not only have found them within two weeks, but must also have produced a report listing management measures which can reduce the resulting seismic risk. That alert system and the requirement for a report of measures to be available within two weeks shall be sufficient for that transitional period until 1 November 2017. Mrs Mulder in particular asked whether this could be speeded up. I need a good measurement and control protocol. That should apply for a number of years. So it has to be really good for each other. It would be nice if we could get it done more quickly in a responsible way. That is not really necessary because we have the alarm system, but I still want to try to get that, if that is justified, as soon as possible. I myself have in mind that we should try to steer on 1 June 2017. I don't know if that's gonna work, and I'm only gonna do it if it's gonna work. For the time being I stick to 1 November 2017, but there is the possibility that it will be brought forward in the order of magnitude that I have just put forward. I'm here to talk about the settlement of damages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u88	I believe we had the agreement to do the treatment by block?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u89	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u90	I get the impression that the Minister is now going from the "meet-and-line protocol" block to the "damage handling" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u91	Now we're going to give different interpretations of a "block." What does the Minister mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u92	Actually, this was a very small block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u93	That's what I thought. I'm allowing one interruption now. I won't count it, but then we're really gonna wait for a part of the debate to be discussed. That's what I call a "block." There's not gonna be a block after every sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u94	Sometimes the Minister is just very quick, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u95	Sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u96	Sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u97	I have a question about the measurement and control protocol. The Minister says: as early as possible. He wants to try to get the place ready on June 1st. Why is that so important to the CDA? The CDA wants to make a new decision on the extraction of gas within one year. So it really has to be for one year, precisely because of the protocol on measurement and regulation. The minister says he wants to do that. He also said that every year he wants to talk to the Chamber, to the Province, to the municipalities and to everyone who is interested in it about whether it can go down every year and whether it is all well arranged. I ask the Minister what time we are having this conversation in the Lower House. That will be a fixed moment in the year. Can the Minister promise that we will get that information before then? That is very crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u98	The importance Mrs Mulder attaches to the revised measurement and control protocol is an incentive for me to try to have it available as early as possible, preferably on 1 June next year. In this way, they can also be involved in the annual trade-offs we make. The extraction plan will start on 1 October, which means that the annual assessment of the situation will also take place on 1 October next year. In the weeks before that, consultation with the Chamber and with the people and authorities in the region will take place. If that measurement and control protocol is available on 1 June or a month or two months thereafter, the data may be found by Mrs Mulder who considers that important substances are also involved in the first annual assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u99	We do indeed need this commitment from the Minister, because otherwise the question will be what we are talking about next year and whether it is properly arranged. I am concerned about this and therefore thank the Minister for this commitment. Does this also apply to the other documents on which the SodM has said that the NAM should comply? The NAM doesn't fit and has been given more time. I am referring, among other things, to those underlying calculation models that Mr Dik-Faber mentioned. There are about five pieces of paper I can indicate on a note which documents we would like to have earlier, so that they can really be involved in the debate that will take place next September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u100	I can't say everything's coming sooner. We have indicated what needs to be done and that we need time to do so. A very serious assessment has been made when this can be done and that has also been changed with the Chamber. You have just addressed me specifically about the measurement and control protocol. I think it might be possible to get that before 1 November. I've got June 1st in my head. I could say that, but I can't say that the work that needs to be done is done earlier or that the data that needs to be made available will be there sooner. Of course, it is clear that I am in no way ensuring that information to the Chamber is delayed. I'm trying to do everything as fast as I can, but it has to be justified. I say again that I am not slowing down, that I am trying to do everything quickly and that, as the data becomes available to me earlier, I can share it with the Chamber earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u101	I appreciate the Minister's commitment to the completion of the measurement and control protocol on 1 June. Without wishing to cause any delay, I would like to point out that I am committed to the fact that the measurement and control protocol is socially supported. In what way will the Minister discuss this with society in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u102	I can't answer that question right now. It is a point of attention from Mrs Dik-Faber. Of course, there is also a lot of technology in a measurement and control protocol, but I agree with Mr Bosman that all this kind of thing about the Groningers is important to them. It is therefore also important to exchange these things with the Groningers. I therefore take Mrs Dik-Faber's comment as an incentive and take it seriously. I'm gonna go into the damage settlement. We know that there is a lot of damage and that there has been very hard and good work on the recovery. We have faced many tens of thousands of damage. For the most part, offers have been made to the damage detectors and have led to acceptance. In the meantime, tens of thousands of damage has been caused. Originally, there was a direct relationship between the person responsible for the damage and its resolution. The NAM was liable and the NAM completed the damages. We then discussed with the Chamber the desirability of putting it at a distance, so that people did not have to go to that company with their damage and replace it with something else, at a distance from the NAM. That's why we set up the Center for Safe Living in Groningen. That's where 288 people work right now. They do their best every day and they work with the best intentions. The leadership does this in the same way: working hard with the best intentions, trying to do well for the Groningers who suffer from damage. I notice that, where there was previously negative talk about the NAM, there is now a negative talk about the Centre for Safe Living. We're now looking into the National Coordinator's ability to take over. I'm afraid the next step is that we're also going to talk negative about the National Coordinator. So what's left? We have a great interest in ensuring that the damage in the area is dealt with correctly. This is possible by clarifying the various responsibilities. The NAM is primarily liable and therefore has to compensate for the damage. The Safe Living Centre must ensure that claims are dealt with. If someone reports damage, an expert has to go in and record the damage. Next, the Centre for Safe Living must make an offer so that the damage issue can be resolved. The National Coordinator Groningen must be in charge of this process. He must determine how all this is going to work and what the damage protocols and manuals under which the Centre must work Safe Living look like. We're trying to pull this off. I think it's a logical division. I have already taken a first step by asking the National Coordinator to handle the complex cases, both the old and the new ones. I also asked him to oversee the Center for Safe Living. In addition, I think it is appropriate to consider how the position of the National Coordinator can be further strengthened, both in a formal sense, in terms of legal powers, and in terms of conducting the direction, which allows him to ensure that the Centre for Safe Living is in a position to do his job properly. I think the Centre for Safe Living is doing a lot of good. If a claim is made to the centre, it will be dealt with within eight weeks. Within eight weeks, the person who suffered the damage will receive a message. It then shows that the damage is repaired, that the person who has suffered the damage can appoint a contractor himself to repair the damage, or that the person who has suffered the damage can be compensated and the money transferred. That can be done within eight weeks, and it will be done within eight weeks. Sometimes people decide, however, that this is increasingly happening in order to ask for counter-expertise. It'll take time, of course. When people are offered an offer, they do not immediately say yes or no; they want to think about it and discuss it. It's gonna take time, too. In such situations it takes longer, but if there are no complications, the damage report can be completed in eight weeks. I think this is a good achievement for the 288 people who work at the Centre for Safe Living. This is how I try to shape that further. In addition to the steps I have already taken, I have asked the National Coordinator to make proposals regarding the damage protocols and the damage manual which could lead to a further interpretation of the methodology I have just formulated. Therefore, if we still lay down the necessary legal powers, I think we have a very good way of working. In the end, nothing changes for the Chamber. Everything that happens at the NAM, the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator Groningen happens under my responsibility. So I have to answer to the Chamber and the Chamber can address me to everything that is happening there, including in the new situation. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how people could get real-time information on the state of the damage settlement. It's already possible. There is a special portal on the website of the Centrum Secure Living to which every resident with damage with his own password has access. He'll be able to follow the process exactly. I think that's a good thing. I come to the contours and arrangements that have been in place so far. It looked at where the earthquakes have occurred and in what area the earthquakes have had an effect. There's a blue line drawn. Then that line was extended by two kilometers. That's the red line, the contour. The M.O. was as follows. Damage within the contours is damage which can be assumed to have been caused by the earthquakes. The damage outside can be assumed to have not been caused by the earthquakes, so it is dealt with in a different way. That was the M.O. that applied to that. Arcadis has also provided a basis for this method, but the National Coordinator has said that he still wants to submit that support to a second opinion. That's what he had done at Delft University of Technology. From that analysis by TU Delft, the National Coordinator also concluded in accordance with the NAM that this different approach for damage cases within and outside the contour is not sustainable and that it is important to ensure that all claims are assessed individually beyond the contour. A valuer must go there, a report must be drawn up and a decision must be taken. As a result of this change of insight, that contour has lapsed. So it doesn't matter whether a damage case is inside or outside the contour. What is true is what I have always said: if natural gas extraction causes earthquakes and if these earthquakes cause damage, and that is the case, then the damage caused by natural gas extraction is a damage which must be compensated. And where that is, in itself, doesn't matter. This also leads to this practice in practice. We are taking the opportunity to start a test with the new method. So far, the damage expert is looking at whether the damage was caused by earthquakes and, if so, how high that damage is. Then a report is made and an offer is made to compensate for that damage. There are now about 1,600 cases of damage outside the old contour. The damage expert goes there and immediately goes on to see what could be causing that damage. There may also be other causes, such as soil incoherence, change in groundwater levels, weakening of foundations because they are of insufficient quality or a storm. There are all kinds of other possibilities that can cause damage. This study therefore also looks at other possible causes. So it's getting a little broader. Then we're going to have that damage report checked by a panel of experts before it's dealt with. They'll check to see if the damage reports were properly made. If that is the case, it will be settled further. So that is an improvement, a specialization of the method, which we will first apply to those more than 1,600 cases outside the old contour. People have had to wait a little longer there too. We think it is good, if you are working on an improvement, to start in that place as well. That's about the damage contours. Some spokesmen have spoken about the company Vergnes. That's one of the companies that provides counterexpertises. A lot of counter-experts are being done. That number is in the order of 10,000. There are about 140 agencies dealing with counter-expertises. The NAM, which had a relationship with those agencies in the way we used them so far, found that there were problems with the implementation of two agencies. At that time, an improvement plan was agreed with these agencies. In one case, that improvement plan has not been implemented and that process has been terminated. The NAM then made a conclusion to that effect. This means that the existing cases, the current cases, will continue to be settled and that this office will not be involved in any new cases. This situation is under discussion between the NAM and that agency. They've had meetings before. The National Coordinator is interfering with that too. I have no idea, I do not know exactly what the ins and outs are. I think that these are really things in the implementation that the National Coordinator should look at and have a view on. He must help solve the problems that arise, so that damage can be dealt with as smoothly as possible. That is really what this is about. These were my words about the settlement of damages.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u103	First of all, I think that many parties will share the joy of the fact that the contour maps are now off the table. I would like to thank the Minister for his confirmation. No one doubts the responsibility of the NAM nor the ministerial responsibility of the Minister. We have heard many signals from all the parties in Groningen that damages can be dealt with more independently. The manual and the protocols were from the NAM. Counter-expertise is activated because people do not trust the expert's judgement in the first instance. At that point there is an improvement to be made. Wouldn't it make sense to give the National Coordinator Groningen not only more direction, but also more powers to deal with the damage more quickly and efficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u104	I have already said that I am afraid to find myself in a situation in which first the NAM, then the Centre for Safe Living and then the National Coordinator face a loss of confidence in the area. That would be very bad; the work has to be done. Trust must be regained instead of lost. I wish to deal with the National Coordinator with great care and economy, which plays a crucial role there. I've been looking into how you can get to a logical situation in the area right now. The liability of the NAM is not discussed; it remains. As far as implementation is concerned, if you've just built up an organization where 288 well-intentioned people are working, you'd be crazy not to use it. They have been able to gain experience and I would like them to continue doing so. I would also like the government in independence, at a distance from the NAM, to fulfil its own responsibility to the people in the area. The National Coordinator is particularly important for this. I want to do two things. First of all, I would like to examine what is necessary to establish by law certain powers of the National Coordinator, without depriving me of the ability to be responsible for him and to answer to the Chamber for his actions or his failure to do so. So I'm looking at how to do that. Secondly, I asked the National Coordinator to come forward with proposals for improving damage protocols, manuals and so on. He and I share the same views. We have made the same analysis and come to the same conclusion. It is now a question of its practical impact. I intend to have this in a row before the end of the year and with the Chamber the parts so that the Chamber can assess this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u105	I welcome this direction of the Minister. I think that we are working in the same direction in this respect. I also share his view that we must be careful in dealing with the position of the National Coordinator Groningen and that we must appreciate the damage management that is going well. Let us see if we can improve it where it is not going well. I would like to thank the Minister for his direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u106	I very much agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u107	I am pleased that the Minister has promised that that terrible contour card will now go into the trash. He's talking about a new way of dealing with damages. So far, 80% of the damage outside that contour map has been classified as C damage, i.e. non-mining damage. Is the new approach going to change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u108	It depends on what the facts are. If the damage is not caused by earthquakes, it should not be compensated. Everywhere in the country you can see that there are cracks in houses and sinkings. There's storm damage everywhere, and there's varying levels of groundwater. There are setting problems because there is built on pieces of land that have failed, while pieces of land have not collapsed. There are all kinds of causes that can cause damage. It is not the case that with the decay of the contours everything outside those contours is regarded as earthquake damage and reimbursed. It is assessed individually. If it's earthquake damage, it'll be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u109	Can the Minister promise that all existing damage which has hitherto been outside the outline map has been dealt with before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u110	I don't know if I can make it by the end of the year. It must be the endeavor. People who have been on hold for a long time must be served as soon as possible. What numbers and speeds we can do that at, I can't say right now. I shall come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u111	I run into damage all the time anyway. Can the Minister say something about the system of A, B and C damages? The NAM itself drew up that classification, but it lacks a legal basis. I heard the Minister say in his introduction that the vast majority of the damage has been dealt with adequately, but if you declare damage inadmissible, the percentage of damage handled increases automatically. When people say that 10,000 damage has been dealt with and that all stuck chimneys are included, while sometimes nothing has to be done about it, then the percentage goes up automatically. I am looking for an approach to the settlement of damages that is aimed at the law, with liability and property damage as defined in the Civil Code and as further stipulated in the Mining Act. From now on, can we not fly that through the law rather than through a note that the NAM has made and which it now presents as a legally established compensation assessment scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u112	We're gonna fly it through the law, too. It is a question of whether damage has been caused by natural gas extraction and the earthquakes caused by it. If that is the case, the damage must be compensated. These categories are beautiful, but it's about whether earthquake damage was caused. Then it has to be compensated. This principle must be developed in a certain way in practice. For this purpose, the NAM has chosen a practical method that I am not opposed to in advance. You can say from certain damage that they weren't caused by earthquakes. You can also observe that they were not caused by earthquakes, but still consider them C-damage. That's no problem at all. It's okay. It's okay. Nor is it the case that claims on the assembly line are rejected and that everyone agrees to do so. Perhaps it would be a good idea to give the figures for the current year. This year, 10,900 claims were made. There have been 10,200 visits made by a damage expert. A delay in last year's work stock has been overtaken, resulting in an offer of damage recovery in 11,500 cases. So far, this year, including last year's work stock, has reached an agreement with compensation in 13,500 cases. So let us not pretend that a lot of damage is being rejected and people are being dismissed. Each damage is taken very seriously and assessed individually. Then people get the opportunity to get the damage repaired, to repair the damage themselves and send the account to the Centre Secure Living, or to get the money transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u113	Damages are not taken seriously at all, because the people outside these contours have been waiting for a proper assessment of the damage at all for a long time. So the damage is not taken seriously at all. In addition, NAM's Earthquake Damage Manual contains a lot of photos of houses and types of cracks, indicating whether or not these are due to earthquakes, but it takes two to tango. It's not just about the property. It is also about the subsurface, the distance to the canal, the question of whether such a house is on a terp and so on. That heterogeneity of the soil and everything that we have changed about the landscape is at least as important as the structure of the house and the foundation. None of that's in that manual. The manual is so flawed that I'm asking the Minister to throw that shit aside. From today on, let's arrange proper damage treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u114	Does Mr Smaling not think that he himself is partly responsible for the discontent in the area when he says this sort of thing? He says to me, "Get rid of this shit." He tells me that the claims are not taken seriously at all, referring to what happens outside the contours. But the area within the contours is the area that has been found to have had an effect there. This has been used as a working hypothesis to handle tens of thousands of claims correctly. It won't take long. There are 1,600 cases outside the contours where, also on the basis of Arcadis' research, it was assumed that the damage was not caused by the earthquakes. Before a conclusion was drawn, Delft University of Technology was first invited. Those damage reports were kept clean. TU Delft's conclusion was different from Arcadis' conclusion. That is why, as soon as the TU Delft conclusion was available, it has been said: we are going to deal with all these cases individually, we are going to do so as soon as possible and in a better way. Mr Smaling is now saying: it is not taken seriously at all and throw away the mess. I do not think that this is a contribution to what we should be trying to achieve together, namely to standardise the situation in Groningen as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u115	Is this the end of the block about the damage? I have asked a lot of questions about this in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u116	My argument is divided into cubes. This was the block about the damage. I am going to look at the various supplementary and specific questions that have been asked. I shall then consider whether I should go into those questions further. I'm used to doing it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u117	Then I have a dilemma. I made a clear proposal. I suggested that the judge be involved in damages. I have proposed to run a dozen trial trials. If the Minister wants to respond to that later, I'll wait for it. If he's not gonna go into that later, I'd like to ask you about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u118	I'd like to get into it. I'm not shy about trial trials at all. I have said before that I think it is my job to prevent people from feeling compelled to go to court. That is what we are doing, first and foremost, by ensuring that the injury report is taken directly seriously and that a good valuer is employed to take account of the situation. That valuer shall draw up a report and make a real proposal. We will make sure that this is the end of the matter. If people are not satisfied with this, they have the opportunity to employ a second valuer, a second expert. They can find out for themselves and the work of that second valuer will be borne by the Centre Secure Living. So far there is still the possibility of even involving a third independent expert. He can also draw up a report once more. If the people do not yet agree with the outcome of that situation, then arbitration is therefore settled. We've agreed that if there's a verdict from that arbitration, which is binding on the NAM. The people themselves, however, keep the possibility of going to court if they want to. At the initiative of the Chamber, it is also settled that, when people go to court, there is a reversal of the burden of proof. I think that way we have managed the whole process in a more than exemplary way. I'm sticking to my attitude, which is to prevent people from feeling forced to go to that judge. I have to make sure that the matter is resolved properly in the preliminary stage. So I'm not shy about ten trial trials.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u119	I understand the Minister isn't shy about it, but dozens of Groningers are shy about it. The Minister is right to say that a large number of minor damages have been dealt with. Yes, there are also damages handled in Groningen to the satisfaction of everyone. The entire Chamber agrees with the Minister. However, there is also a large group of rather desperate people who can't get through. We talk to these people on a regular basis. They do not have the financial means to deal with this properly. They feel completely trapped in this environment. We have invented the judge in the Netherlands so that people can go there. But legal aid insurance can't be taken out if you're already in harm's way. These people are simply not financially capable of this. It costs them €10,000 to €20,000 to have such an independent damage report prepared. People don't have that money in the kitchen drawer. So many billions have been taken from Groningen. What are the amounts? 100 billion? 200 billion? Those are huge amounts of money. So what is the problem with asking Hans Alders to see if a few trial trials can be conducted? We are talking about about about ten trial trials. They are transparent and decisive. And you can use this as leverage for the NAM. Because Hans can only ask if the NAM will pay; the only one who can enforce that is the judge. I can imagine that the Minister isn't really waiting for that. But would he not like to ask Hans Alders whether this is really possible in some cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u120	Interrupts must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u121	It is factually wrong what Mrs Van Tongeren says. We have agreed that a ruling by the arbitrator is binding on the NAM. So there's no more discussion at all. Before anyone has to go to court, the arbitrator can first be called. That's free. If the person concerned is right, the decision will be carried out by the NAM. Then nothing else needs to be done. The first damage taxi driver to go to a damage reporter is free of charge. The second valuer to be activated is also free of charge. As I said, if you go to the arbitrator, it's free. Legal aid insurance in Groningen is the same as in the whole country: anyone who wants it can be insured. But it's not like you can start insuring yourself if you're already in a procedure. That is not possible elsewhere in the country and therefore not in Groningen. With that first and second valuer/expert, the free arbitrator and making the NAM binding, we have arranged the matter in such a way that we really do not have to go into trial processes. Above all, we should not make the case in Groningen any more complex than it already is. We must ensure that as many practical solutions as possible work properly at the earliest possible stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u123	That was this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u124	Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u125	I'm allowed to do my interruption in half, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yes. You did, didn't you? No?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u127	You thought it was too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u128	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u129	But it was in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u130	I thought you were talking for a long time. If I can be brief, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u131	The arbiters are only about damage. We have already commented on this: they do not assume mining damage. Nor do they refer to the President of the Supreme Court. The great advantage of justice is that precedents arise. They are not created by arbitrators who, by the way, are nowhere in our legal system. They are neat mediators/intermediaries. The NAM has said of its own free will: we agree with that. But people who have received large settlements I mention the De Joode family as an example of them who threatened to go to court first. Again, I don't understand why the Minister doesn't want to go on something so small. It helps a lot of Groningers and there is a big demand from Groningen. If we want to restore confidence there, the judge is still trusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u132	I regret to say again that what Mrs Van Tongeren says is wrong. She says the arbitrators are mediators, but they're not. They're arbiters. If a dispute is brought before them, they shall rule. The NAM is obliged to execute that ruling. It's not the case with a mediator, but it's the case with an arbitrator. We did not say that anyone who called in the arbitrator, the alarmist, was bound to do so. No, he's free to go to court if he doesn't agree to it yet. There is a reversal of the burden of proof. We've really arranged that in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u133	I have to go with Mrs. Van Tongeren here anyway. The Minister says that this has been settled in a proper way. That's true, but on a case-by-case basis. Arbiters have a major disadvantage: their rulings are not case law. They are binding on the NAM, but they only concern that one case. If you have judgments, you create case law, which can affect multiple cases. That's the big difference between an arbitrator and the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u134	Let's please be careful to break down everything we've built first. From the beginning we said: the NAM is liable for the damage and the NAM has to compensate for that damage. That's what NAM's been working on. It was then said that the NAM should be remotely. For this purpose, the Centre for Safe Living was established, where 288 people work, as has been said. Then it was told that the National Coordinator had to do so. Then we said that the arbitrators would be a good addition. We've come to the conclusion that that's how we're gonna do it. And now Mr Wassenberg here says that these arbitrators are not good enough either and that it has to come back to the judge. I believe that we have settled it neatly, with different valuers, if necessary, an arbitrator who makes a judgment binding on the NAM and then another opportunity to go to court, with a reversal of the burden of proof. We're gonna expand that even further. Putting parts of it into question does not contribute at all to the end result. We need to focus our energy on it, and I will also focus my energy on it, so as to do justice to people's claims as quickly and as effectively as possible and to compensate for the damage at the earliest possible stage. The follow-up to the procedure is all about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u135	The minister doesn't understand me or he won't understand me. I'm not saying that the arbitrators aren't doing a good job, and I'm not saying they're not okay. They're good for that one thing. But there are hundreds of thousands of people living in the earthquake area who may have suffered or already suffered and so many arbitrators cannot be called in. The moment you want a ruling that's wider than just that one, you need a court ruling. Although arbitrators are ex-judges, their judgments do not have the status of a judicial judgment. That is why I say that the judge should be able to be more easily called in and that that threshold should be lowered. I'm not saying that because these arbitrators do bad work, but because those arbitrators are very specific to one case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u136	But of course it already works in a way normalizing. When the arbitrators make statements, everyone takes that into account. There are lessons learned from that. We shouldn't put the emphasis on that last piece, on going to court. We must prevent this from happening, because it must be dealt with as quickly and as properly as possible. If, despite what I have said with a good valuer for the first time and a second valuer, one cannot agree, then you can let that go through the courts, but it is much better in that case to make a practical decision quickly, at level. That's what we've appointed these arbitrators for, and they're working now, and they're doing a good job. They've already made a dozen statements. They pick up on-going cases, but they also look at old cases and see if they can take them into their work. I think we did the right thing. Insofar as there is still a need for clarity on the part of the judge, the judge can give it. Those who have come up with the damage are strong because of the reversal of the burden of proof, which has already been decided upon. I think we've handled it so well. I'm really not gonna do anything to refine that any further, because I don't think that's the point. Mr Smaling, Mrs Mulder and Mrs Van Veldhoven spoke about the reinforcement programme. I would like to endorse Mr Bosman's approach on this point. Mr Bosman has said that it must be set up by the people of Groningen. That is where we need to determine what is happening and the pace at which it is happening. That's how it is with the reinforcements. It is not the National Coordinator or the municipalities or contractors who decide how this reinforcement is to be carried out and the pace at which it is to be done. No, it's about the people. For each individual person where reinforcement needs to take place, the whole house needs to be inspected and often some work has to be done on the walls or ceilings have to be broken up to see things. That's incriminating for people. A reinforcement must then be carried out and people must not rarely leave their homes for a certain period of time. That's all very far-reaching. It is therefore essential that, in the face of the will to strengthen, the will to discuss this with the people in the area and to ensure that it results in this way. We have, therefore, to begin with, made agreements with the housing corporations. A total of 1,650 rentals will be strengthened. They are immediately converted into zero-on-the-meter houses. The first 300 or 350 will be completed this year. Then we can evaluate this and find out what lessons we can draw from it for the follow-up. Furthermore, we are going to inspect individual homes very carefully each and every one of them. Over a period of 14 months, 1,450 homes will be looked at in this way. An approach is then developed in which the resident is central. Each home is determined from the NPR-systematiek what needs to be done. I can tell you that this is a very far-reaching operation which requires a lot of consultation and which also requires a great deal of computing from engineers. We've had to hire them all over the world to do this job. On the one hand, less natural gas is important, as is flat natural gas extraction. On the other hand, as far as reinforcement is concerned, what is needed must be done. The original reinforcement program as established by the National Coordinator is fully implemented, despite the fact that there is now much less seismicity, which will ultimately also affect the number of houses to be strengthened. Mrs Klever spoke about the Groningen Forum and the 168 million spent on strengthening it. I think this is proof that not only minor damages are dealt with smoothly. The Groninger Forum was under construction and a huge amount had to be put on the table to do the necessary on the basis of the data available at the time on the risks. Other data are now available, but on the basis of the data available at the time, it has been concluded that certain measures had to be taken. The NAM undertook to make 168 million available for this purpose, so that construction could resume. What happened there shows that the NAM is willing to assume its responsibilities across the board. This means that damage caused by gas extraction will be compensated. That's the thing about the backup.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u137	A brief question, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u138	In the area there is a feeling that homes that were initially on the list of properties to be strengthened are now suddenly losing out of the list because the NAM uses new assumptions for the seismic risk. Does the Minister find that careless? Can he imagine that this makes people worried about the safety of their home?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u139	I think we need to strengthen those homes that really need to be provided, but no more homes. If we manage to reduce the number of earthquakes as a result of less gas extraction and a more flatter method of extraction and, moreover, to make them less heavy, there is less risk in the area and less housing needs to be strengthened. We must always look at the actual situation: what are the risks and what are the reinforcements? We realize everything we need in terms of reinforcement. We'll continue with what we've set in motion. This concerns both the 1,650 homes of the housing corporations, and the 1,450 homes that are all inspected individually over a period of 14 months. Those projects will be completed. However, we are looking at how the facts develop. On this basis, we come to conclusions on the number of houses to be strengthened and the extent to which this reinforcement should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u140	The residents of those 1,650 homes now have the idea, also on the basis of the signals they get, that the NAM seems to withdraw somewhat from that whole project because the seismic risk would have changed, while the KNMI says that we still have to take into account a somewhat heavier quake. In a village like Loppersum 97% of people still don't know if their house is safe, because there hasn't been an inspection yet. So commitments have all been made and expectations have all been raised that could not be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u141	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u142	I understand the concerns of the residents very well. The Minister says that we should not strengthen more than is necessary. That's right, but that's the rational story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u143	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u144	I'd like to know how the Minister looks at that. Those people's plea is also justified. They say: we were told that something would happen to our house, but now nothing is happening. They don't feel safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u145	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u146	I say to Mrs Dik-Faber the same thing I said to Mr Smaling earlier: is it wise to paint that picture? Mrs Dik-Faber says that expectations are being raised in Loppersum which are not being met, but when she gets there, I think she gets there regularly, she can see that whole streets have been transformed and that houses that were vulnerable have been strengthened. Houses have been significantly improved and converted into zero-on-the-meter houses. The image has really changed there. There are very profound things happening when it comes to the schools around Loppersum. There are changes in seismicity. While there was always the threat of earthquakes in that area at first, it is much less so there. We're moving on to that now. As said, 1,450 homes are inspected, including in Loppersum. For 1,650 homes there is a programme in which the housing organisations are also involved. Then I am not okay with saying that nothing happens in Loppersum and that the people there are disappointed. This does not contribute to a real atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u148	I'm here to talk about heritage. Mr Bosman has started to do so, also from the point of view he has chosen on other points, namely that you have to reason as much as possible from within the area itself. Other speakers have also referred to this. Like Mr Bosman, I believe that the heritage in that area, whether it is on a list or not, is important for the quality of life in the area, the sense that people have in their area, for culture and history, that which you pass on to the next generations. I believe that there should be a great deal of attention to the cultural heritage in the area. In the multiannual programme, the National Coordinator stated that there would be a separate balancing framework in order to make a proper balance between safety and monumental value. After all, you can make a part of the cultural heritage very safe, but if the monumental value then disappears, you also destroy something. That consideration must be made and there must be a framework for that. The National Coordinator has also said that there will be a heritage window. Anyone who has questions about a monument can go to that counter. Behind that window is a team of experts who can assist an owner in identifying the problem and finding a solution. The awareness is that this will have to be done with customization. The handling of damage is quickly a complex thing. In doing so, the National Coordinator is often already engaged to look at questions like "do several aspects play a role?', "is it complex?" And "what can I do with my people to find a solution to this?'. As I indicated, there's a specialist team behind that counter. I think that we can give the heritage in the area the attention it needs. A pilot has already been launched in which a number of monuments have been inspected and passed on and how they can be handled properly. An inventory has also been made for the entire area. In the work done by the National Coordinator on this issue, he brings with him existing local programmes and citizens' initiatives. He collaborates with the province, with the municipalities, with the Cultural Heritage Agency, with Libau and, of course, with the owners and with the NAM, which should be directly involved in a number of points. I think it is very important that the cultural heritage should be given attention and I am pleased to note that this is the case at the moment. I will continue to follow this with the National Coordinator to ensure that it leads to the necessary results. Mr Wassenberg spoke about Natura 2000. Last year an ecological analysis was carried out on the effects of soil decline from gas extraction from the Groningenveld on Natura 2000 sites in the north of the Netherlands. It concerns the areas in Groningen, the north of Drenthe, the Wadden Sea and the Eems-Dollard. This has resulted in no negative impact on the conservation objectives of these areas. I have no indication that this will be different with the new extraction plan, which only leads to even less gas extraction. Moreover, it is a flat extraction. That is why I believe that there is no need for further research on this issue. Mr Wassenberg repeated his question on methane leakage. I've promised that we'll visualize it. He mentioned America, where there is from 1% to 3% loss of methane, and said that this is very burdensome for the environment. That's right. I don't have the information yet. That's because it has to come from the SodM, but that's heavily burdened with all kinds of things right now. The SodM is working to strengthen and expand the organization, it is involved in Groningen, it is involved in all kinds of other gas and oil extractions and it is closely involved in what is happening in Twente, which we will discuss with the Chamber tomorrow. The SodM has not yet been able to do this. I want that information in the Chamber by the end of the year. Mr Wassenberg asked what I think of the extraction of gas under the Wadden Sea. At the moment, in addition to what I have just discussed with the Chamber, I find no such thing. We have discussed it extensively, motions have been adopted and I have made commitments. I think all the things related to gas extraction on and around the Wadden Sea were discussed at that time. I don't have any new perspectives on that right now. Mr Smaling stressed the importance of the upper 30 metres of the ground as regards the damage caused by earthquakes. He's right about that. The shallow surface is indeed of great importance to the risks involved. Therefore, this shallow substrate is explicitly included in the calculations of the ground acceleration. In the case of earthquakes, it is mainly about ground acceleration. Both the KNMI and the NAM take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u149	Did you sort of answer all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u150	I'll check it out. I see there's something else I need to say about the buy-out arrangement. Mrs Klever said that it was all bad with the buy-out scheme. I am also working on the various issues, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u151	I hear it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u152	As far as the buy-out scheme is concerned, I have said before that I like to see Groningen preserved. This means that I want to maintain the social structure of that area. The problems must be solved there, so that people live there to the satisfaction and safety of their lives. That is what our policy must be focused on. I'm not focusing on buying out as much as I can in that area. However, there are a number of schemes, for example for special cases, such as a depreciation scheme and an increase in value. There is now also a test with 55 homes for sale for more than a year. These properties are being bought up. We will then evaluate the test and see what conclusions we can draw from it in terms of making housing market problems manageable. The completion of the 55 homes in the test is such that all homes with a asking price below €200,000 that meet the criteria can be purchased. A selection has been made for homes above €200,000. The fairest selection is to do so through a draw, after you have determined who all meet the requirements. There can be no dishonesty like that. An exception was found for five cases. There were special circumstances due to a combination of different problems. That has been said: at least we are going to buy it. We have this pilot or trial now. When it's finished, we're going to see what lessons we can draw from it. But I'm not gonna change that pilot anymore. I also maintain my point of view that I want to maintain the social structure in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u153	In the meantime, have you answered all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u154	I have now answered most of the questions. To see if I've forgotten something, I'm going to look at the notes I made with the contributions of the various spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u155	I suggest that you do so, if it is short, and that I then give everyone the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u156	That's good, Madam President. I have answered the questions put by Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Smaling, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Mulder and Mr Bosman. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke of a deal that would have been made with business right before the elections. This is another example of a Member of Parliament claiming certain things that are completely unrelated to reality. This does not make a positive contribution to the atmosphere in Groningen. I didn't make any deal with the business community. I have come to the decision on the extraction plan in a very transparent and careful way. It is not at all a matter of whether it was before or after the elections. The time at which I would make that decision was already set last year. I have followed the procedure for reaching a decision very carefully and transparently. I really don't think it's a good idea to start suggesting that deals with business are being made just before the elections. I have dealt with Mrs Klever's contribution and with Mr Vos's. I hope that I have dealt properly with the introduction of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u157	The Minister says that two years ago research was carried out into the effects of gas extraction on Natura 2000 sites and that no new research is needed. However, the Deputy States of Groningen have sent us a letter in which they say that the effects of gas extraction have not been sufficiently reflected. They are talking in particular about the Zuidlaardermeer, which dries. The Deputy States of Groningen say that, in our opinion, the NAM needs a licence under the Nature Protection Act, but she doesn't have it. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u158	I didn't say "two years ago," but I said the investigation was done in 2015. That research has come out of what I have just said. If details are brought to our attention, we will always look at them. If necessary, I will also discuss this with or without the National Coordinator. So special things can always be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u159	So the Deputy States of Groningen don't know what they're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u160	I do not understand why Mr Wassenberg draws that conclusion from what I have said. I have said that we have carried out an investigation, that results have been obtained and that we are always prepared to look at it and talk about it when details are put forward. To which Mr Wassenberg therefore draws his conclusion, Joost may know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u161	I'll come back to the point where the 30-foot surface explains quite a lot of the damage. Is that a new fact for the Minister? I'm asking a little because of the argument we just had about the earthquake manual. This is mainly about above ground aspects: the quality of the building, the foundation and so on. Is it really a new insight for the Minister when I say that that 30 meters above ground explains 90% of the damage? That therefore relates to assessing the damage to buildings, given that we should not just look at the quality of the property.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u162	The importance of the upper ground in the specific situation in Groningen has been known to me for years. However, each time you have to look at the criteria to be applied at the different moments of assessment. Has new concrete information become available specifically for Groningen? If so, how can you use that information to do the right things, to make the right decisions? That's how we're always trying to move forward. The situation of Groningen, with the problems we have there, is unique in the world. So we're sitting there inventing the wheel. That's not so strange either, because it was originally one of the largest gas fields in the world in an area where a lot of people live and where much has been won for years, in varying quantities. The problems that have arisen there are serious and require a great deal of research. A lot of research reveals a lot of data. As that data becomes more concrete, you can do more with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u163	There are three exactly the same houses, all in the same state. The first is on cut clay, the second is on peat and the third is on peat, on sand near Slochteren. Does the Minister agree with me that if these houses all get the same blow-up from an earthquake, you can get three very different damages?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u164	I'm not very good at dealing with individual cases. That's not what I'm here for. I'm in favour of making sure others do it right. I've explained a few times how we've filled that out. If questions are questioned in individual cases, then there are arrangements to overcome these questions. Should it have a broader effect and need extra attention, the National Coordinator Groningen is happy to give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u165	The PVV has been asking for a buyout scheme for people who want to leave for years. People shouldn't be held captive in Groningen because otherwise the area wouldn't be viable? Now, at last, there is something similar to a buy-out scheme for the very poignant cases. My group is very pleased with that. But now there is not enough budget. There's only 10 million. Now 62 very poignant cases appear, 62 families simply fall out of the boat because it is strictly by drawing lots that they do not receive a buy-out scheme. Does the Minister think that this is fair to the 62 families?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u166	I think it is very fair to use as a starting point for Groningen that we have to ensure that this valuable part of our country, with a clear character and its own social cohesion, is helped through this difficult period and that social structures are maintained. I think that's very good. I think it is very good that we have an increase in value, which, in the tens of thousands of cases where people had €1,000 or more damage, allowed people to increase the value of their property by €4,000. I welcome the fact that we have a depreciation scheme, which has enabled people who received less than they expected to receive in more than 1,000 cases. I also welcome the fact that we have an arrangement for special cases. If people are faced with distressing circumstances, this is considered by a committee and in a number of cases a buy-out has been made. It is also a good thing that we are now doing a serious pilot of 55 purchases to see how this is going, what its impact is, how this relates to my starting point that social structures must be maintained and what lessons we can draw from it for the future. I think we are dealing with this in a sensible and responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u167	The fact remains that 62 families who meet all the conditions for the buy-out scheme are excluded, because the budget of 10 million is exhausted. There is 68 million going to some sort of Groninger Forum, a megalomaniac project, but only 10 million is available for a buy-out scheme while just over double is needed. Is the Minister prepared to take a stand and say that he is going to arrange something for these 62 people, who meet all the conditions, so that they too can benefit from this buy-out scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u168	It was a test to see how we could learn from a possible limited and thought-out buy-out plan. We said that we wanted to do a test with a limited number of houses. An amount has been made available for this purpose and a study has been carried out into which homes are eligible. That data was collected and there were more homes than there was budget available for the pilot. So a selection has been made. This means that homes with a asking price of less than €200,000 have all been purchased and that of the houses with a asking price of more than €200,000 a selection has been made in the way I have already outlined. I think that for a pilot where 55 homes are eventually purchased, this is a reasonable design and I do not intend to change that design.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u170	I was there before, but I know my colleague has a question on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you so much for the coulance. I have tabled a motion with Mrs Dik for the summer on this point, which reads as follows: 'The Chamber, having heard the debate, invites the government to make a success of the pilot buying instrument by carefully monitoring its implementation, supporting it where necessary and, if necessary, encouraging NAM to broaden and further finance, and will proceed to the order of the day'. That motion was passed by the Chamber. So a majority in the Chamber would very much like the Minister to help those 62 other families. There is broad support for this, but there is a need for dialogue with the NAM, which must make the money available. Has the Minister made a first start on these talks? Is he willing to enter into these conversations with the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u172	We are going to complete the test which we started a long time ago and which is now in full effect. We are looking at what lessons we can draw from this. Then we can also see whether a further broadening is taking place on this point. I think it is too early to decide on this; first I want to wait for the results and then I will take a decision on the basis of an analysis of those results. I am not going to change the test that was set up at the time and which is in full swing. I don't intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u173	It seems to be positive in the first instance. The fear that the whole of Groningen would make use of it and that the province would drain has not been realised. There were some 119 applications. Unfortunately, a clear number of people want to make use of this scheme. About half of them are now using the scheme. The others are on a waiting list. I understand that the Minister would like to conclude the settlement first, but can he indicate when he expects the settlement to be about completed? Knowing what we know now, does he want to start talking to the NAM in advance to look at further funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u174	I will not enter into conversation until I have the results of that test and can form an opinion on what action it may need to take. I don't want to make conversations ahead of time. I would like to return to the question of when the test has been completed and when we can draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u175	The minister just said that confidence in Groningen was being damaged, even when MPs were asking critical questions, but the OVV gave a clear recommendation that it would be good if the partners in the gas building apologized to the Groningers. The Minister did so, as did the NAM. I asked Shell Nederland to do so last week and they did so in a hearing. But just after that, Shell Nederland's CEO was on BNR News Radio and she said: we always had security on one side. Has the Minister already addressed the Netherlands in the manner in which he just addressed the MPs and said that it does not help to apologize first in public and then to say on BNR News radio that you were always only concerned with the safety of the Groningen people and that this is in the first place with Shell Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u176	I have no problem with critical questions, but I do have a problem with unjustified negative suggestions and descriptions regarding Groningen. This is because it wrongs the reality of the area and negatively influences the atmosphere in that area. I believe that we must provide a real solution to a real problem that exists in the area. And our descriptions must, in my opinion, be objective and neutral, otherwise we will make the problems greater than necessary and then a solution will not be closer but farther away. I have experienced from the NAM, Shell Netherlands and Exxon in the four years I have been working on this dossier that people are supportive in finding solutions. I am convinced that people are doing their best to take responsibility and help solve the problems. So I don't need to tell the NAM, Shell Netherlands or Exxon how to express themselves or how to communicate. As far as I'm concerned, they can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u177	There is a motion adopted by the entire Chamber which the Minister has said he is going to implement. The motion concerned the implementation of the recommendations of the Security Research Council. One of the main points in that report is to apologize to the Groningers. That is why the Minister did so to the Chamber. The NAM did the same and I asked Shell Netherlands to do the same. Shell Nederland first apologized, but they immediately took it back. The Minister shall supervise the execution of this motion. He said he's gonna do that. That is why I ask him if he has addressed the Netherlands following these statements on BNR Newsradio Shell. It doesn't help to apologize first and then say that you never really did anything wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u178	I can only repeat what I just said; I have experienced Shell Netherlands, Exxon and the NAM during the period in which I am responsible for the file as supportive in finding solutions. I also think that people are dared to accept their responsibilities and to do so with conviction. I also believe that everything that is asked of these people that should contribute to solutions is being constructively responded to. So I do not need to take the size of the shareholders of the NAM in terms of their communication. The investigation of the Research Council for Security focused on me. I have said the necessary thing to all those involved, including the NAM. I say again that I do not need to address shareholders of the NAM or people working for shareholders of the NAM or people who are otherwise involved in the file. No, I'm working with them to find solutions to the problems as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u179	The Minister spoke about the importance of neutrality and independence of information, among other things. We have already talked about dealing with damage, but of course we are also talking about all the information that is at the basis of mining decisions. The SodM had made a number of critical comments on this. So there is still room for improvement. The Chamber has previously adopted a motion on an independent knowledge institute, so we are not dependent on the information of the NAM. This can therefore be challenged to among other things the latest scientific insights from abroad. I had no more time in my first term to present that question to the Minister, but perhaps in the second term he will have the opportunity to tell us what is going on with that knowledge institute and when it can really work on validating the data coming from the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u180	Together, the SodM and the Ministry of Economic Affairs have set up a concept for an independent research programme. As part of this, there will be a platform for knowledge exchange. A scientific, authoritative and independent committee of experts will be appointed for this purpose. This will be supported by a scientific secretary and by TNO. This is how we are going to deal with this. The composition of the committee has yet to be completed this year, i.e. in the fourth quarter of 2016. The committee can then work. I am in consultation with TNO to discuss logistics, organisation and support. So we are working hard on what we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u181	This shows that the Minister knows that this is a point on which I want to keep my finger on the wrist. I do have one more question. How will the opinions of this committee, which will thus work in the form of a platform, be structurally involved in the decision-making process on gas extraction and the underlying data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u182	What is the background to Mrs Van Veldhoven's question? In order to be able to assess the situation in Groningen, we do not want to be dependent on investigations carried out by, or commissioned by, the NAM, although we do not feel any suspicion towards the NAM. We also want to have other options for the review of these investigations or perhaps for the conduct of independent, separate research. We have the SodM and that will continue to be used, but this is an important addition to it. I think this is very important. It is also an important part of the opinion of the Security Research Council. In the follow-up work on Groningen, I will therefore take advantage as much as possible of the opportunities offered by this independent research programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u183	We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. Speaking time is 1 minute and 40 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u184	Mr. Chairman. D66 wants new knowledge on how to make gas extraction safer or better for people in Groningen to be taken into account. So you can't decide for five years in one go. That is why my name, along with that of a number of other spokesmen, is under a motion which will later be tabled by Mr Jan Vos. The handling of the damage must be truly independent of the NAM. It can't be that the company that causes the damage also determines what damage someone gets compensated for. So the NCG should not only direct, but also be given a real mandate to build trust together with the residents. I have two motions to support that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas residents suffering from complex damage or repeated damage sometimes need support in handling practical and legal aspects of damage handling;]] [[Whereas, according to the Independent Councillor, the relief of residents is an important focus to alleviate the impact of earthquakes on the personal life situation of Groningers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, with the NCG, that independent damage assistance is organised, including initiatives such as "Stut and Support,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Wassenberg, Agnes Mulder, Dik-Faber, Jan Vos and Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you. My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas damage to residents resulting from mining activities should be dealt with independently, quickly and generously;]] [[whereas the handling of damages should therefore be even more distant from the NAM;]] [[noting that, in particular in the case of repeated minor damage, the paperwork and the burden on residents do not correspond to the costs;]] [[calls on the Government to achieve a genuinely independent settlement of damages, including on the edges of the area;]] [[Notes, inter alia, that this should include independent formulation of injury protocol, quality criteria for (contra) experts and the NCG's injury manual;]] [[invites the Government to attribute the necessary powers to the NCG,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Jan Vos, Agnes Mulder, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Wassenberg, Klever, Bosman and Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u186	Mr. Chairman. I have four brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in conjunction with the implementation of the climate judgment, to draw up a phasing-out plan for gas extraction in the Netherlands which includes a timetable to end gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet says to put security first;]] [[Considering that SodM claims that reduction to 21 billion cubic metres or less will reduce seismic activity and that the figures on security of supply of Gasunie Transport Services show that 21 billion is sufficient;]] [[does not agree to a mining decision of 24 billion cubic metres for five years;]] [[calls on the Government to take a new gas extraction decision for a maximum of 21 billion cubic metres and for a maximum of one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-289]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u187	I see that the seconds are ticking if you ask whether the motion is sufficiently supported. Time runs faster than I'd like. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the gas extraction decision provides that more gas may be extracted in colder winters than the ceiling of 24 billion cubic metres on the basis of the number of "grade days";]] [[noting that the Minister, the Chamber and the region were not informed of the actual amount of gas extracted until October;]] [[calls on the Government to attach the additional extraction during cold days to an immediate obligation to provide information on the additional collection of the NAM to the Government, and of the Government to the Chamber and the Province,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u188	Now my last, short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Deputy States of Groningen claim that the effects of gas extraction on nature have not been adequately reflected and that NAM should have a licence under the Nature Protection Act;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the effects of gas extraction on nature are fully known and also to ensure that gas extraction does not take place without the necessary Nature Protection Law permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u189	In three minutes I will have a general discussion on hormone-distorting chemicals, so I hope you will forgive me, Mr President, for leaving the Chamber afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u190	Mr. Chairman. I can handle it with two motions. We have agreed on a number of issues so that I can support some of my colleagues' motions. I shall first table a motion on the issue of ENGIE. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to the quantities of low-caloric gas to be removed by ENGIE;]] [[Whereas local authorities do not have a view of closed gas procurement contracts and, in connection with the safety of the Groningers, they are committed to reducing the level of extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to order that the security of supply in relation to the contracts concluded be assessed by the International Independent Team Mining Act, which was added to the Mining Act by amendment, assuming that the First Chamber is in favour of the proposed amendment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-293]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u191	My second motion concerns the pace of inspections around the standards of safe living. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that inspections or housing comply with the standard for safe living are very slow;]] [[noting that even in Loppersum 97% of homes still do not know whether they comply with the standard of safe living;]] [[noting that the upper 30 meters of the soil account for 90% of the damage;]] [[considers that an object-based classification is necessary covering the characteristics of the property and the upper 30 metres of the soil;]] [[calls on the Government to increase significantly the pace of inspections (above ground and underground),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Smaling, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Klever, Mr Jan Vos, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-294]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Groningen heritage, with its many picturesque and characteristic buildings, contributes significantly to the identity of the area;]] [[noting that the focus for conservation and restoration of heritage now lies with Rijksmonumenten;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, under the direction of the National Coordinator, a coherent heritage policy is drawn up, including:]] [[conservation and restoration of wealth and local heritage in a spatial and landscaped context;]] [[determining the cultural value of the heritage and the value of the area;]] [[a socially based balancing framework allowing local authorities to decide as competent authority on the conservation and restoration of local heritage;]] [[supporting and caring for owners;]] [[fund formation;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber of progress by the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas agreements have been made between government, housing corporations, NAM and the Centre Secure Living on strengthening and sustaining 1,650 rentals, but only 150 housings have been addressed so far;]] [[noting that the NAM is now withdrawing from these agreements, as new KNMI research shows that 1,100 of these homes would no longer fall within the contours;]] [[noting that the KNMI does not exclude severe tremors at the same time;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the agreements on strengthening and sustaining 1,650 apartments are complied with,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Smaling, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-295]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u193	Mr. Chairman. I shall first table three motions, if I have any time left, I shall go into three points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to examine and discuss the reduction of demand for Groningen gas from industrial and gas plants with relevant companies and to explicitly include sustainable solutions, and to inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2017 about the possibilities of this reduction in gas demand in volume of cubic gas per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas it remains unclear whether as promised by 2020, Groningers will be as safe as residents of the rest of our country;]] [[Whereas the safety of our inhabitants in Groningen must be guaranteed;]] [[calls on the Government to continue the plans for the Zuidbroek nitrogen plant so that less Groningen gas is needed for security of supply if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to take a provisional decision of one year so that the reports and calculations, including the measurement and rule protocol to which the Minister's NAM is assigned, can form the basis of a new extraction plan and decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-297]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-298]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Smaling, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Klever.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-299]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u194	I thank the Minister for his commitments during this debate. The protocols and manuals will be made completely independent of the NAM. From the hearing it emerged that the NAM itself wants to do so. We think this is a good thing. It is also a good thing that we start from the whole discussion about whether it is earthquake damage or mining damage, and from all the difficulties that this question raises in the entire damage file. They're finally going to opt for mining damage. We also agree that residents should have the right to a free second opinion and that they should be able to choose the office they want on the basis of quality criteria. The CDA thinks that's very important. Finally, I would like to hear more about the buying-in scheme. I have already supported a number of other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers and commitments. I brought up the damage settlement myself. I am glad that the Minister has recalled that a lot of things are going well too, because that is what we must continue to say. The damage has been done to a very large group of people well and as desired. But a lot of things still have to be done. I therefore think it is important that a great deal is decided not here, but especially in Groningen. We need to give the Groningen the space and support to improve and strengthen that. It is therefore a good thing that we are in the process of putting the NAM at a distance. The NAM wanted to do so himself, and the Minister also indicated that. I agree with my colleague Van Veldhoven's motion to give substance to the role of the National Coordinator Groningen. I welcome the commitments on the monuments. Every time we get to Groningen, it turns out that these are always complex cases; that's what the Minister said. There's a lot of love, history and character in a house like this. This applies not only to the house itself, but also to the surrounding area. That makes it even more difficult to get to work with that. I am pleased that there will be a separate balancing framework, as well as a heritage window, customisation, and damages settlement. It would be good if there were several cases dealt with at that point of contact for comparison. In this way, people with complex damage to their monument do not have to invent the wheel every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u196	Mrs. Van Tongeren, one quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u197	I now hear that Mr Bosman is keen to set a precedent by making matters available to us. Am I to understand that that's the tone of his last remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u198	Mr Bosman, I would like a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u199	The point is that if there is all kinds of information available about the repair of a house, other people will have access to it. I don't care if that information is anonymized or not. That way you can figure out exactly where to start if you want to fix your house, what you can come across and what the options are. If that information is available, it could help anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u200	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Commission sometimes applies rather strict criteria, while it has been set up to regain confidence and mitigate circumstances;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the National Coordinator Groningen to apply generously the eligibility criteria for particular situations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the court in the Netherlands is independent and can make enforceable judgments which are appropriate for similar cases;]] [[Whereas Groningers hardly find their way to court;]] [[Whereas judicial decisions contribute to restoring confidence;]] [[calls on the Government to put in place a scheme to fund experts, lawyers and, where appropriate, case managers for ten or so of Groningers' trial trials against NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas market participants and the Minister indicate that demand for Groningen gas is falling;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure a structural inventory of the amount of gas needed in the coming years and, if it is lower, to adjust the level of extraction accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Wassenberg, Smaling, Agnes Mulder, Klever and Van Veldhoven.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-300]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Wassenberg, Van Veldhoven and Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-301]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Wassenberg, Van Veldhoven and Smaling.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u201	I got that. I now have 1 minute and 20 seconds left; that is a bit generous compared to colleagues. I would ask the Minister to consider whether, in addition to the strictly formal legal side and the reasoning he himself comes up with, there is room somewhere in the heart of the Minister and the Ministry to meet those cases that are so terribly difficult. I must say that in my six years in the House of Representatives there have been few things where I felt that I personally was unlikely to fail. But with this whole Groninger gas file, I have from time to time, especially when you hear someone like Mr Nijhoff, that I am doing my best and really think that I am not doing my job as a representative of the people. I can only make an appeal to the Minister to see if there is anything more to alleviate the wretched circumstances of some of the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u202	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has promised that the contour card can enter the trash and that all damage outside the contours can now be dealt with individually. He also indicated that the aim is to do so before the end of this year. If that is the case, the next motion may not be necessary, but I will certainly submit it, because the PVV believes it is important that these damages are dealt with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in villages outside the contours card damages are almost always assessed as C-damages which do not compensate for the damage;]] [[Considering that TU Delft reduces the basis of the contour map by the NAM at virtually all points;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the use of the contour card for the settlement of damage, to treat all damages equally and to deal with all ongoing damages in Groningen before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klever, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Smaling and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u203	For the Groninger Forum, which is outside the contour map, the National Coordinator Groningen had a bag of 68 million euros ready, but he had no eye for the 62 people who were excluded from the buyout scheme. The PVV considers this the wrong priority. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that even people meeting the conditions of the buy-out scheme have now been excluded;]] [[considers that the buy-out scheme should not be a lottery;]] [[calls on the Government to set up immediately a more extensive buy-out scheme for duped Groningers in which at least the people who have been excluded can make use of the buy-out scheme as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klever, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Smaling, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u204	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Party of Labour has addressed two points in particular. The first point is the settlement of damages. I hope that next year we will not have to see people like Mr Nijhoff again in the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren also referred to it a moment ago. I think the only solution is to actually compensate for all the damage. I think that's the only way to bring peace to Groningen. I call on the NAM to do this and I call on all those who are present and doing this work. I thank the Minister for all his efforts. I very much support the motion that I tabled together with Mrs Van Veldhoven to remove the damage handling at the NAM and make NAM more independent. I also think that we in the Chamber have not been very careful about this in the past. I'll charge myself a little bit. At least that's what I'm saying with the knowledge of today. The second point I made is the extraction of gas. I shall table the next motion on this subject, which is referred to Article 63.3 of the Mining Act. It expressly states that this is something we can, with the knowledge we have, re-assess each year and decide on. We discussed this with each other in the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the Chamber, to review each year whether the extraction can be adjusted downwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Jan Vos, Smaling, Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Agnes Mulder, Van Veldhoven and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u205	I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions and also for the concern with which he is dealing with this dossier. I spoke to an old room chairman the other day. He said: I have never seen so much change on a subject and there was so much political change on a subject as it is now and is going on in this incredible drama that is taking place there in Groningen. The Minister has also assumed this responsibility with us in recent years. For that my group congratulates him once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u206	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber has something else to say to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u207	I just got the message that the motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u208	Okay. The name of Mr Dijkgraaf will be added under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u209	We have arrived at the rejoinder on the part of the cabinet in the debate on the new gas extraction decision. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u210	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can go into some of the questions that have been asked first. Mrs Mulder asked when a follow-up would be given to the pilot for the purchase of some 55 homes. At the moment, the valuations are taking place. Then the prices will be fixed. The purchases are scheduled to take place six months after the valuation, but we do not have to wait for that. This means that we can start to evaluate the picture immediately after these assessments. The preparations for that evaluation have already started. It will have to be available next spring, so before the actual purchase takes place. This evaluation involves the CBS and Mr Boelhouwer of Delft University of Technology. The National Coordinator Groningen aims to present a proposal for the continuation of the pilot already before the summer of the following year. In this way, we are trying to deal with all this as quickly as possible. Mrs Klever asked when the claims will all be dealt with outside the contour. All damages notified before 15 August will be attended by an expert before the end of the year. We will also ensure that in January a damage report will be sent to those people with an offer. That's how it's gonna be very soon now. New claims received after 15 August will be dealt with at the end of this test. We are now running a test for a new methodology to see whether it should be applied to the whole. Then the new claims will also be dealt with, but the bulk of the damage outside the area that has been there for some time will be sent the damage report in January. Then I would like to ask you, Mr President, whether it is possible to vote on the motions tomorrow, because the final decision must be taken before 1 October and in relation to Princess Day. If the Chamber is not going to vote tomorrow, it will be too late for me to allow the results of the votes to be reflected in the decision. I therefore ask you to allow those votes to take place tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u211	You can ask me that, but, as you know, the President is a savage instrument in the hands of the majority of the Chamber. I'll take a look around. If there is no objection to that, I would like to start with all kinds of pleasure. I see no objections on the part of the Chamber. Before we have dealt with the motions, I propose that we vote on them tomorrow. This can then already be put into effect. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u212	Thank you, Mr President. In the motion-Van Veldhoven c.s. in piece No. 287 the government is invited to work with the National Coordinator Groningen to ensure that independent damage assistance is organised, including initiatives such as Stut-en-Steun. Mrs Van Veldhoven probably knows that Stut-en-Steun is supported and subsidised by the National Coordinator Groningen, so we are very much involved. It gives that support to all residents. That important provision is therefore available. Improvements to the damage protocol have been initiated. This means that a broadening of the counter-expertise becomes available and the arbitrator is set up. The Heritage and Business Windows are also being set up. We have talked about this before. This also provides additional support. In addition, the National Coordinator Groningen plays an intermediate role in complex damages. In this way, we are already doing what is requested in the motion. I am also prepared to have the coordinator look again at whether this covers the whole, as is my intention and the intention of the Chamber. So this motion does not add anything to what we are already doing. I'm telling you, because I don't need her, I'm not gonna tell her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u213	Then perhaps the paper is different from the practice. We met a lot of people in Groningen who pointed out how incriminating those who found damage handling processes. That's why I'm maintaining this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u214	But it's also gonna end sometime. If you make Stut-en-Steun available to everyone, you support and subsidise that, and if there are additional facilities available for specific cases, such as monuments, in complex damages, I believe we have properly covered the case, also in the light of the fact that everyone can insure themselves there, as in the rest of the country. In my opinion, that is the case. I would not know what additional measures would be needed if the motion were to be adopted. Hence the advice I have given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u215	With a look at the clock, I would like to ask Members of this House, I do not know who are the greatest culprits today, to avoid further discussions at this time. The Minister said something else that Mrs Van Veldhoven may respond to, but after that we are really going to do it a little bit shorter and questions can be asked to the Minister about his opinions on the motions, but no further discussions will be opened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u216	We have spoken to people from Stut-en-Steun in Groningen and asked them if they were already able to offer some kind of assistance, as envisaged in this motion. However, there was still some doubt as to whether this would fit in with the current possibilities. This supports the point that there may be things on paper that still need to be worked out or widened in practice. Hence my request to ensure that it becomes really widely available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u217	The opinion is clear: the Minister is dissuading the motion. And you're maintaining the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u218	Then I come to the motion on part No. 288 by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Vos, calling for a genuinely independent settlement of damage, an independent formulation of the damage protocol, quality criteria and a damage manual, and calling on the National Coordinator Groningen to involve residents in this process. I share the importance of dealing with the damage that is at a great distance from the NAM, but everyone's position must be respected. In the event of damage, the NAM shall be liable for damages. The Centre for Safe Living is the implementation organisation and the National Coordinator Groningen I see as the one who has to direct it. I will work with the National Coordinator Groningen to see how this can be achieved, taking into account the independent formulation of the damage protocol. I also intend to come forward with proposals to strengthen the position of the National Coordinator Groningen. I will inform the Chamber about this later this autumn. I am certainly referring to the possibility of attributing certain powers to the National Coordinator Groningen. I have already indicated this in my first term. I assume this is the intention of the motion. I can then leave that judgment to the Chamber. I come to the motion in part No. 289 of... one moment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u219	The Wassenberg/Dik-Faber motion. Mr Wassenberg also apologizes for a general discussion elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u220	In the motion in part No. 289 is asked the government, in conjunction with the implementation of the climate judgment, to draw up a phasing-out plan for gas extraction in the Netherlands, which includes a timetable to end gas extraction. In the Energy Report, the government indicated that the use of CO-poor energy was targeted and that the policy was to limit the use of natural gas as much as possible. This applies in particular to space heating. After the Energy Report, we conducted the Energy Dialogue. Now we are working on the Energy Agenda. So I am working in a very structured way on the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. In addition, from the point of view of safety and security of supply, I am also trying to drastically reduce the extraction of gas in Groningen. To complement that, with a separate phasing-out plan, I have no need. That's why I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Wassenberg's 290 is asking the government to take a decision for a maximum of 21 billion for a maximum of 1 year. I've argued why I don't want to. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Wassenberg's 291 calls on the government to link the additional extraction during cold days to an immediate obligation to provide information. Within one month of the end of the gas year, the conclusions to be drawn on the level of gas extraction on the basis of the number of grade days shall already be indicated. I also indicated that that information about the graduation days is public. This is very transparent and to be followed by everyone. Mr Wassenberg's request therefore has no added value. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 292, by Mr Wassenberg, states that the government must ensure that the necessary nature conservation permits are granted. Of course, the NAM must have the necessary permits if this is required by the Nature Protection Act. The same applies to the new extraction plan. There's no need for an extra verdict. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 293 by Mr Smaling and Mr Wassenberg, it is stated that there is uncertainty about ENGIE. The contract between ENGIE and GasTerra is not relevant. It's about the physical question. How this is filled out with contracts by parties, how they may or may not have properly assessed their needs and how they look at the price they agreed to at the time is irrelevant to me. It's the physical question that matters to me. That is why I reject Mr Smaling's motion and Mr Wassenberg's motion. The motion in part No. 294 by Mr Smaling c.s. calls for a significant increase in the pace of inspections. Housing inspections are complex and their approach is ambitious. It is not easy to enter all kinds of houses, open ceilings there and look into walls. I have already said that we have put together experts from all over the world and that we have made an ambitious plan to do so. I'm trying to do that responsibly as soon as possible. The National Coordinator Groningen will come forward with proposals before the end of the year to do so as soon as possible. The latest insights on top and underground are taken into account. If that is the way the motion is meant by Mr Smaling and co-signatories, then I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u221	But I must be sure that the author or the proposers accept the interpretation given by the Minister. Otherwise, we're gonna be sitting here and voting in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u222	I can just say yes to that. Let's just stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u223	Since I do not see any other proposers jump up, the Minister can continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u224	In her motion in part No. 295 calls Mrs Dik-Faber a large number of things that must be done in heritage policy. It's nice that Mrs Dik-Faber gets all this straight, but all these things are already being done. I have already indicated how important I think heritage policy is and what is already happening in this area. The only new feature of the motion is the request for fund-raising. I don't think you should decide on fund formation right now. In the area of heritage, we are working on a lot of things. We can see what needs to be done. I do not rule out anything at all, but I do not want to say in advance that there must be fund-building and that the Chamber must be informed of progress by the end of the year. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u225	The minister says he has a warm heart for heritage. I'm very happy about that. He also says he's doing pretty well and he's actively working on it. However, I'm getting signals from the area that things are not going so well. I am told that the local heritage is under pressure and that as a competent authority the municipalities cannot make an overall assessment of which property should or should not be preserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u226	What is your question about the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u227	I note a discrepancy between what the Minister says about his commitment and the situation as it is now in practice. So we really need more than what the Minister is currently thinking. My question to the Minister is whether this explanatory statement does not allow him to get rid of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u228	No. We are in the process of setting up a heritage window with a team of experts behind it who can provide tailor-made services to those who ask for support. The National Coordinator Groningen is committed to this. A number of other things are also being worked on at the moment. You can say that it is not ready and not yet good, but I have indicated that we are already doing what is requested in the motion, except for fund formation. I believe that this is anticipating the decision-making process that is taking place there. .............................................................................. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 295. The motion in part No. 296 deals with the 1,650 homes agreed with the housing corporations. I've got so many papers, I can't pull it out so soon, but it's gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u229	If you're looking for the motion in part No. 296?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u230	No, I have that motion, but I would just like to point out that what is stated in it, namely that only 150 houses have been dealt with, is not correct. A number of homes have already been dealt with last year. This year 165 additional homes are being addressed. In addition, a next batch of 350 homes will be started, which will be realized in the course of next year. So there is much more going on than in this motion. It is a huge amount of money that is being invested. We must constantly consider whether the relationship between the need for reinforcement and the investment is still there, but so far the number of homes we have focused on is in the picture. What we set in motion last year and this year, we keep going. As far as the total number is concerned, we will look at whether this is justified expenditure in the light of actual developments. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 296, in which a ruling is made which is not entirely in line with this. In the motion in part No. 297 Mrs Mulder and Mrs Van Veldhoven say that the government should examine the reduction of demand for Groninger gas from industry and gas plants and discuss this with the companies. We've examined and discussed everything. We also know what's going on, but the factories that would have to shut down do not use the gas for their heating or to support their industrial process, but they use gas as raw materials. The largest user uses the gas as a raw material. For the other users there is a complex situation, which costs a lot of money and yet again represents an important investment in fossil energy. It is better to look at this together with the decision on Zuidbroek in a year's time when, for the first time, on the basis of the data available at that time, we assess whether there is a new situation as referred to in the Mining Act with regard to the volume of gas extraction. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 297 by Mrs Mulder and Mrs Van Veldhoven. In the motion in part No. 298 ask Mrs Mulder and Mrs Dik-Faber to build the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek. I have explained in detail why I believe that the decision to do so or not should be taken in a year's time. I will not repeat those arguments. In line with what I said in the first term and because I think it is more responsible to take the decision well-founded than to do so now, I would advise against the motion in part No. 298 by Mrs Mulder and Mrs Dik-Faber. In the motion in part No. 299 by Mrs Mulder c.s. the government is asked to take a decision for one year. I have said a great deal about this and I will say something about it in response to Mr Vos' motion. Making a decision for a year is contrary to the advice I received from SodM and the Mining Council and to the considerations made by the cabinet. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 299. The motion in part No. 300 was tabled by Mrs Van Tongeren and co-signed by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Wassenberg. In this motion, the government is asked to ask the National Coordinator Groningen to apply generously the eligibility criteria for special situations. Those who deal with the particular situations I am talking about the Committee on Special Situations are doing so very seriously. We have agreed that there must be a common problem. It should not be the case that we are going to change what has been agreed on the tasks of that committee by means of a back door. I have no indication that the committee is too strict. She's strict, though, because she's been assigned a certain task. I believe that the committee is applying it very correctly and conscientiously. That's why I advise against this motion. Moreover, this does not mean that I do not think it is important for the National Coordinator Groningen to continue to consult this committee regularly to see how the work is going on in practice and to find out whether new insights are still present. I'm sure you will. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 300.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u231	How does the Minister look at the case of someone whose house had been demolished, who could not then stay in emergency care in Groningen and stand on the street? The committee said that our criteria do not allow us to help this gentleman. The fund is intended to alleviate these crises, isn't it? I also mention the case of someone who has a resident child and who is therefore formally not in debt as a household. But if you're not in debt, you're not eligible for help. I can give you a lot of examples. I will not do that, because then the chairman will look at me very angry. But the Minister also knows. In many cases it works, but in some cases it doesn't. Is it too hard to ask to look at it generously?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u232	I can't talk about individual situations. That has no added value. That only leads to confusion. Moreover, if I had to do it already, I would like to study the file first and I would like to know all the ins and outs before I make a ruling on it. It's not my job to do that. I have listened very carefully to what Mr Vos said about this. I have also listened very carefully to Mr Bosman on this point. I believe that we are quite right to rely on the inhabitants and to realise what they can face, and that the combination of the measures we have taken should lead to many measures and very wide-ranging measures, so that individual cases are given the attention they deserve. I think that's important myself. I also think it is very important that the National Coordinator Groningen constantly shows that he has an eye for this and that he does not shy away from the discussion. If there are things that he believes are not good, he is right to take the liberty of raising them and to consider what should be done there. That role will therefore continue to be played by the National Coordinator Groningen. That's what's needed. However, I do not need to give additional guidance to the Committee on Special Situations. I have just mentioned the arguments for this. That's why I didn't recommend this motion. In the motion-Van Tongeren c.s. in piece No. 301 is asked the government to initiate ten trial trials. I've already indicated that I don't think that's necessary. There are plenty of possibilities to clarify claims for damages. We have a whole trajectory for that, which I have been able to describe a few times in the first term. The Chamber will understand that I'm disavowing this motion. In the motion in part No. 302 Mrs Van Tongeren and her co-signators ask the government to ensure a structural inventory of the amount of gas needed in the coming years. That's what GTS does for me. He's done that before, and he's doing it again. I will also continue to tap that information from GTS in the coming period, because I intend to look at the situation every year and whether there is any reason to draw new conclusions within the space provided by the Mining Act. This motion, in which the government is asked to make another structural inventory, I therefore advise against. In the motion-Klever c.s. in piece No. 303 states that the contour card should be deleted. I have already indicated that the contours have lost their meaning in this respect and that the damage is being dealt with inside and outside the old contours. That's where a damage expert is sent, who's gonna draw up a report. This motion is therefore superfluous. That's why I'm dissuading her. In her motion in part No. 304 states that the buy-out scheme should be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u233	I have the impression that Mrs Klever would like to ask another question about the decision on the motion for a resolution on item No. 303.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u234	Yes. The Minister has promised everything I ask in the motion, including that the current damage will all be dealt with. This will not happen before the end of the year, but at least in January. That's why I want to hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u236	Hold on? You can move her in, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u237	Hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u238	At the request of Mrs Klever, I propose her motion (33529, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u239	In the motion-Klever c.s. in piece No. 304 the government is invited to extend the buy-out arrangements so that those who have been excluded can make use of them. No. We set up a pilot scheme, as a pilot. I indicated right at the beginning how we would do it and what we could do with the budget. I have now also indicated how that went and how I am going to proceed. I'm not gonna do anything about this arrangement anymore. I'll wait for the evaluation. Then we will see what proposal comes from the National Coordinator Groningen to give a follow-up. So I'm not suggesting this motion. I come to the motion Jan Vos c.s. in piece No. 305. I have already said that I will annually inform the Chamber of the most recent insights regarding security of supply, the development of seismicity and the conclusion that the Cabinet attaches to it regarding the amendment of the assent decision, starting in October 2017. The calibration would take place on the advice of the Mining Council after two years, but that takes place now after one year. Besides, I'm gonna do this every year. I can withdraw my agreement to the extraction plan or change the restrictions and regulations such as the level of production referred to by Mr Vos in particular. Of course, it is important that these amendments are justified by the Mining Act, but we have already discussed the extension of that law on this point. It has passed the Lower House and is now being discussed in the Upper Chamber. That amendment to the Mining Act lists the interests which may justify an amendment. Following the entry into force of this bill, I may amend restrictions or regulations if justified by changed circumstances or changes in understanding, inter alia, the importance of security for residents or the prevention of damage to buildings, infrastructure works or their functionality. That is exactly what the Chamber meant by the amended Mining Act. Every year, therefore, I come up with this analysis on the basis of which the cabinet will draw a conclusion which will then be shared with the Chamber. I have already spoken about the consultations that will take place in this area. I think this is the intention of Mr Vos' motion. If so, I shall leave this motion to the Chamber. Mr President, those were my reactions to the 19 motions with which I was honoured.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u240	I am looking at Mr Vos, because I heard a certain amount of interpretation of Mr Vos' motion in the Minister's words. If he agrees with that, we can bring this to an orderly conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u241	This minister would not be this minister if he did not consider every motion carefully. That's his job, too. I can agree with the way he interprets the motion. We'll see each other next year, I'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u242	Here too, I do not see any uplifting co-signators, so we assume that you speak on behalf of that collective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u243	It is also true that Mr Vos and I have already had a period of four years. We always carry out the agreements made on these matters. It is my intention to do the same with regard to this motion and the further procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u244	That brings us to the end of the discussions. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u245	Once again, Mr Fox, I am not quite finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u246	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u247	I noted with you that we are going to vote tomorrow on the motions tabled.
