ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen, who is already ready, as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing us to conduct this debate under your direction. I look forward to it. Today is a special day. It is a special day for education, a special day for students and teachers and also a special day for me personally. I've worked in education my whole life, in different roles, as a teacher, as a director and as a principal, and in different sectors, in high school, in MBO and in HBO. In all this time, my educational heart has only started knocking faster. In recent years, I have seen that public policy has been dominated by distrust of education. In spite of this, people in education have managed to maintain quality. Now, however, it is time that the quality really improved. For that we must give them the wind in their backs. As far as D66 is concerned, the people whose education is and for whom it is, the teachers, the parents, the students and the students, get the trust they deserve. Today we can ensure that they regain control of their education and thus help to improve the quality of that education. Give them the support and the strength they need. That is necessary, because good education is becoming increasingly important. As a result of developments such as digitalisation and globalisation, education is increasingly required. Social developments also require their attention in education. Good education helps people to develop their talents and teaches them the right knowledge and skills to start their future in a good way, to be well prepared for a constantly changing labour market and to actively participate in society. People also have to train during their lives. In the future, jobs will increasingly disappear and others will emerge. This requires education aimed at improving its quality. This requires education that is flexible and that can be adapted to technological or social developments. That is precisely why participation is so important. Now directors have to answer mainly to The Hague rather than to their own students, students or teachers. That has to change, because good education policy comes about when those who are at the heart of education, pupils, students, parents and teachers are involved in the policy and have a strong voice in it. They are often out of play now, while they can best assess what is good education and how teachers can best bring out their students or students. Participation ensures that money reaches the right place in education, that education is flexible and that the quality of education goes up. Participation is also the drug against solar king behavior, with which some boards have unfortunately been in the news in recent years. Today we will find out in this Chamber which parties are for those parents, those students, those students and those teachers and which parties want to leave power with the directors, exclusively with the directors. If we have learned anything from the Virgin House occupation and the bankruptcy of Amarantis, it is the importance of strong participation with sufficient powers. However, this bill, no doubt under pressure from the VVD, does almost nothing to improve the position of participation: the right of advice rather than the right of consent where necessary, no student assessor, the training committee hardly gets a better position and there is no improvement in participation in primary and secondary education at all. In short, this bill is called a strengthening of administrative power for a reason. For starters, I'd like to change that. Not only do I want to change the title, which should, as far as I am concerned, be a strengthening of administrative power and participation, and I have also tabled an amendment to that effect, but also, and above all, the content. That is why I published today a note containing D66's plans for participation. Read that part. Of course, these proposals have been translated into a series of amendments to really strengthen participation, together with a number of colleagues. I hope that together we can achieve a majority in order to restore to parents, students, students and teachers the trust that they deserve and together to improve education in the Netherlands. I shall go through the various amendments briefly. Let me begin with the right of assent on the main lines of the budget. Thanks to D66 this is now regulated in higher education. Experience with this is good, so good, that it can also be applied in MBO and in primary and secondary education. The right of assent on the main lines of the budget gives students, parents, teachers and pupils the opportunity to ensure that the money is spent on the right things. I have tabled the necessary amendments to this effect, including an amendment to make it clear that the allocation model "the system by which the financial resources are allocated to the various parts of the organisation', for example the faculties "the main lines of the budget', is also covered by the concept of "the main lines of the budget'. After all, it is about spending and the distribution of money. To what do we spend it and to what do we assign it? For example, students, teachers and parents can better interfere in the discussion about where the money should go. This ultimately leads, in my group's view, to the best choices to improve the quality of education. I have also tabled an amendment to give the right to vote in favour of decisions to abolish or merge existing training courses. In this way, participation will have a greater impact on the supply of training. In recent years, a number of training courses have either been merged or abandoned. It was not clear on what grounds that happened. A greater role of participation in this area can ensure that decisions on the merging or elimination of training are handled more carefully. This benefits education in the Netherlands. Teachers and students should also be given more control over housing policy. Decisions on housing, such as new buildings or large renovation projects, have a major impact on education. After all, they determine the learning and working environment and the walls within which education takes place. The more involved students and teachers are, the better we know that the money is well spent and megalomaniac construction projects will be avoided. The role of the student assessor has been mentioned in this Chamber and in the Upper Chamber more than once. The last time I tabled a motion together with PvdA colleague Jadnansing to finally settle the function of student assessor as a bridge between students, participation and governance. This motion has been adopted, but the Minister has put it aside with a strange reasoning. That is why, with my PvdA colleague Mohandis, I have once again tabled an amendment to give the student assessor a place throughout higher education. We take into account the concerns of the First Chamber and have left a lot of space to the students and administrators to arrange the student assessment in an appropriate way. I am also pleased that my colleagues from the PvdA and the VVD groups are implementing a previously adopted motion from the D66 and PvdA groups to strengthen the position of the training committee. After all, it is closest to the place where the quality of education is discussed. Then I come to the final amendment. Cooperation between universities and colleges is increasing. That is in itself a good thing and a compliment. However, it is important that students and teachers are involved in the conclusion of a cooperation agreement, called a common arrangement in educational jargon. It is sometimes about merging or quasi-fusing whole courses or faculties. The involvement of students and teachers from the start ensures their support for this cooperation and ensures that education and research are at the heart of these cooperation plans. Then I come to the annual report. School administrators draw up an annual report. They account for the policy pursued in the most beautiful brochures. They paint a beautiful, sometimes rosy picture, without the reader knowing whether the students, parents, teachers and students have experienced this policy as rosy as they have. I therefore propose, with this amendment, that participation, like the school board and the supervisory board, should be able to write a part of the annual report. Participation reflects that part of the previous year. Students, parents and staff representatives share their experience of the policy. This will improve transparency and ultimately lead to a better and better controlled school administration. The second amendment in this respect concerns the annual report and the annual accounts. That should have been regulated in the law a long time ago. Primary and secondary schools are only required to send their annual reports and annual accounts to the Minister. D66 considers it important that schools that receive public money should also be publicly accountable. I come to the student council and the parent council. In many secondary schools, pupils and parents are very involved. They are often active in a parent council or a student parliament. These councils form the beating heart of what happens every day in schools. Together with my PvdA colleague, I propose to anchor in the law that students, parents and staff in primary or secondary schools can set up their own council or body. These student or parent councils often have good advice to the board, as I say from my own experience. Only a limited number of pupils or parents can participate. Not every pupil or parent feels addressed by the formal structures of a participation council. Pupils' or parents' councils may ask for, or give unsolicited advice to, the participation council and, moreover, to the board on matters of interest to pupils or parents. It provides an opportunity for a large group of pupils and parents to be actively involved in education, to provide the position of participation and to improve the quality of education. With these adjustments and with the adjustments made by my colleagues who I have seen coming and who I support, we can really strengthen participation. That would be a big step forward, because a strong participation..... that is my sincere conviction... will ensure that the money is put in the right place, that education meets the needs of pupils and students and that the quality of education goes up. That is the challenge we face today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr Van Meenen made a good plea for the strengthening of participation in education. In general, SP and D66 are aligned. We have also tabled amendments together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u4	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u5	Excellent. My question is this: it seems to me appropriate for a party like D66 to do what you do if participation does not work properly. Are you prepared to look beyond these institutions to see how the educational community can be even more involved in policy and governance, for example, as proposed in my own note, through election of the board, referenda that you should certainly address...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u6	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u7	Of course, I am prepared to look at everything that initially serves the quality of education and which can help to strengthen the positions where they are not sufficiently developed. Together with Mr Mohandis, for example, I will make a proposal on the appointment of directors. Mr Mohandis will explain this later. That is one of the points raised by Mr Van Dijk. Of course, I am also looking at his proposals with great interest. My main line has always been that unfortunately, I would say, it starts with money. That's where we hang out. The big issue at this time is how the money made available by the government ends up in the right place. There are all kinds of questions about that. They reach me, too. This is an issue that we all face. In my view, there are only two options. Either we can see it as a whole from the government. Every euro that goes to the schools will receive a sticker from The Hague with the destination. Then we kill all creativity, all our own policies in schools. In my view, we should not do that. Either we choose the alternative, which is to organise a sufficient contradiction. As a driver, that's what you need. It is my conviction, but also my experience that there is a great deal of interest for the driver to take his participation very well into account in his considerations and in the choices that are made if that participation has the power to say something about, find something from the budget. Then the driver will also inform the participation. After all, there is a party in front of you who can say at any time 'this is not the budget we want to stand for'. This forces the directors to be transparent and to take part in the process, so that the budgeting and distribution of money becomes a continuous topic of conversation in the schools. A lot has been said continuously, but it will be discussed regularly. That's the line I like to follow. I think I can find you by my side. In other words, you may too, Mr President, but at least Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u8	I very much agree with that. Participation must be much stronger. As far as I am concerned, the power should be strengthened here and there, so that such a governance cannot go all the way without genuine participation from the educational community. Fine, but look at those protests at the Virgin House, which I think D66 was sympathetic to. These people criticized the fact that the institutions are not working properly. We are going to strengthen them today, which is good, but they wanted even more opportunities, for example through referendums and elections of directors. Do I understand why you're open to that, too? That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u9	It's not like I've only been thinking about participation since the Virgin House. I've spent my whole life sitting on both sides of the table of co-determination and governance. As soon as I got into the Chamber, I got right on this subject. The Virgin House has taken that debate to a national debate, and that is a good thing in itself. I am not going to go over this occupation with you again with all the good and less good aspects, which I do not think should be the subject of this debate. Some elements are consistent with what I thought before and what I still think after. There are interesting proposals, for example on the appointment of directors. Mr Mohandis and I will make a proposal which will give teachers and students a position in participation, and Mr Mohandis will explain this later. That's something other than an election. I said earlier in this Chamber that I also have my hesitation in some sort of idol election for administrators in any position in education. I propose that we have that debate when Mr Mohandis has made that proposal. My conviction is that this gives an optimal position to teachers and students in choosing their directors. We fully share that interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u10	I'm going to continue on that same point. Mr Van Meenen, together with Mr Mohandis, has tabled an amendment to the appointment of directors, but that does not go beyond the division of an application committee. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me that this is a bit of a half solution and that there should ideally be a right of assent? That is something other than an idol election, it is the right of consent from the participation in the appointment of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr Grashoff only reflects half of the amendment. I shall mention it here, though Mr Mohandis will discuss it in detail later. The proposal we make by law says that half of the appointment advisory committee is composed on a proposal from the supervisory board and half on a proposal from the supervisory board. They do not necessarily have to be members of participation; they can also operate on their behalf. This creates a balance in that committee. That committee sees candidates and makes a presentation. This amendment also states that the nomination is binding on the appointment, so the Supervisory Board is required to follow that nomination. This makes it very strong and makes it superfluous that there should once again be explicit consent to this appointment. That possibility is already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u12	But is it a next best, I ask Mr Van Meenen, on the basis of a political compromise, or is this what he really thinks? I can imagine, knowing Mr Van Meenen, that he might agree with me that it is an improvement, but that it is still half work. In this way, there is no transparency as to whether there is real support from the participation of the relevant director who is appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u13	Yes, there is. If there weren't, there wouldn't be a lecture. Then half of the consultative committee disagrees with the nomination and then it does not come. I do not think at all in compromises or whatever, I speak here from years of experience with working this way. In my own organisation, all directors and supervisors have been appointed in this way, which gives a huge support. Everyone feels involved. I would much rather you all look in the front for a candidate in which you all have confidence, than just say at the back that the process went as it did, and only say yes or no as a participation. Mr Mohandis and I prefer to give that position to the front, so that you are involved in the entire selection process. When you finally come out together, you make a binding nomination to the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u14	I see that Mr Duisenberg wishes to place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u15	That's not student self-management. I would like to say that to Mr Rog, because I hear him muttering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u16	That doesn't count as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u17	In recent years, especially since 2010 when the report of the Veerman Committee came out, we have talked here about ambition in education, more differentiation and profiling. Education institutions need to look up the differences. That ambition was widely shared here, also by Mr Van Meenen's predecessor. In addition to a right of assent on the main lines of the budget, Mr Van Meenen proposed a right of assent on the allocation model. I would like to make three choices to him, within the framework of the strategy of greater differentiation. Suppose a university or college in the context of that profiling wants to spend money on talent programs. Does that fall under the right of consent? That was my first case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u18	Can I treat them separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u19	I shall mention the cases first. If Mr Van Meenen has lost them, I will help him. The first case was about talent programs. Suppose that choice is made, if one chooses to do so in order to seek profiling, is that covered by the consent right and by the allocation model proposed by Mr Van Meenen? I'm on my second case. Suppose an institution wants to divide the allocation of money from the Empire internally between alpha, beta and gamma sciences. Suppose she has agreed with the outside world, with the declining field of profession or with the region, that there should be more to beta. Is that the right of consent or not? I'm on my third case. Suppose an institution, university or university of higher education wants to start up certain subjects in the framework of profiling and make choices, which may reduce the number of courses that other subjects will be given or will fall. Can that consent model say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u20	I hope that Mr Duisenberg, if I answer his questions properly, will be in favour of the right of assent on the main lines of the budget. Maybe I can already ask whether that is the case; then I am going to do my best to get this answer. I think this is not the case, but I expect it to be, in the light of the debate. In fact, the three examples he mentioned do not differ substantially from each other. It's all three choices that need to be made. The right of assent on the main lines of the budget is not an agreement on every detail. It must be an integral consideration of all interests. The fundamental point about the right of assent in respect of the budget is that the driver is obliged to explain these choices very well. That interest is lacking now. There is no interest for the driver to argue his choices and to show, for example, that he wants to use the field in the interests of his students to opt for more beta or a particular talent program or to start new courses at the expense of other subjects. All of this may happen to me, but the right of assent means that the driver is kept to his policies and the choices he has to make. In the end, there is always a shortage of money against all the great ambitions there are to explain and to include his students and teachers in those choices. That's my point. The students and the teachers can then say to the total of the distribution of the funds that they do or do not do so. So they don't say that to each component individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u21	Unfortunately, Mr Van Meenen is not on to the next round. I'm not satisfied with the answer. That's too bad. It's exactly what I expected. All these decisions, between alpha, beta and gamma, between subjects, and regarding the search for profiling, are covered by this right of consent. It should not be because of the right of consent that a driver has to explain it properly; that should be the case anyway. Through this right of assent, Mr Van Meenen unilaterally places this right with a very small group of stakeholders, while there are many more. Does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u22	A very small group of stakeholders? It's about all the students and all the teachers. It's just what you call a university "a very small group of stakeholders." Moreover, what Mr Duisenberg is saying is wrong. That right lies not only on that side, but also on the driver's side. Driver and co-determination do not need to be agreed. We also have all kinds of nice roads for that. The assumption of Mr Duisenberg, who is behind it, is that there is only one party that knows what is good for the university or for a school: the driver. If that driver does not have the opportunity to continue his plans unbroken, there is therefore an obstacle to his good plans. My point is that this is very good. I call the House of Representatives the co-determination council of the Netherlands. This Chamber is armed in every detail with powers of assent. There is no euro from the cabinet going into society without the Chamber saying yes or no. Nevertheless, the roles of Chamber and Cabinet are completely separate. I would ask Mr Duisenberg to bear in mind what kind of country we would live in if this Chamber only had the right to advise the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u23	This is a very false representation of things. The true face of the Liberal D66 is now becoming clear, as that party is pulling up so hard with the hard socialists of the Socialist Party, who are already saying that participation is not enough and that we must go to control. My question to Mr Van Meenen is as follows. Isn't the Law on Participation already a beautiful law? Isn't it true that this law isn't already being used exhaustively? People don't use it enough. If they had, a lot of problems would have been solved. Due to the flow of amendments, Bureau Legislation has been totally overworked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u24	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u25	I am still waiting for that one little amendment from me, which is not at all due to the Bureau. Is the law not becoming even more complicated and complex with this flow of amendments? Shouldn't the people of the co-determination council ultimately form a kind of shadow college of governance in order to be able to function?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u26	The short answer is: no, that is not the case at all, Mr Beertema. First of all, the extent of the changes is actually very limited. In the Netherlands, we have simply set a legal minimum of powers for participation. This minimum is generally based on the right to advice. The only thing that happens with these amendments is that it is converted into consent law on a number of points. That is a fundamental difference, but not all of a sudden it becomes much more complex. Mr Beertema says that the current law already makes everything possible. Yes, in an ideal world. I do not feel that the PVV has the idea that we live in an ideal world, but at least students, teachers, students and parents in schools do not have that in the cases where the driver does not work in a culture that really emulates participation. We only make laws for those who don't behave well. There are plenty of administrators in the Netherlands who take extremely much account of parents, students and students. This law is made for cases where that does not happen. In that case, participation must have statutory powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u27	I understand what Mr Van Meenen is saying. But does he also understand my point of view, for my fear that with the imposition of the Law on co-determination with all these powers of consent, the responsibility for the ultimate failure and the eventual failure of projects will be totally watered down and completely obscured, which ultimately makes everyone a little guilty and nobody in particular? This means that everyone is free, as has always been the case in educational countries. Look at ROC Leiden and all those other failed projects for which no one has ever been called to account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u28	I don't agree with that. This law clearly separates the responsibilities. That is why I am also making the comparison with the House of Representatives, because in essence this is exactly the same. Both the Cabinet and the House of Representatives have many powers, but it is quite clear, as happened last night in the debate that was held here on the position of the Minister of Security and Justice, who is the person addressed in it. That's not even half the room. That's really about this subject. That's the way it is in schools. The position of the director and the position of participation remain completely separate even when the position of participation is strengthened. These positions keep each other sharp; without friction no shine. That's what I'm saying from my own experience. It is too crazy for words that in the Netherlands the position of the participation council depends on the goodwill of the director. That is how it is at the moment. As a director, and I am serious about that, Mr Bertema, you can say that there is a right of assent in the law on advisory matters, but I also have the right of assent in my participation council. I've always done that as a driver, and I've only had very good experiences with it. It's really unthinkable that you as a driver think: the only person who knows what's good for education is me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u29	The Tweede Kamer is the participation council of the Netherlands; that is very well formulated. Does that also mean that the participation council, like the Lower House, should read: ministers should be able to dismiss and appoint them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u30	Then we come to a completely different category. This is about the overall governance of education and about whether we have the right model, with supervisory boards, with boards of directors and with participation councils. I also think that this is an extremely interesting debate. We can also learn from other countries that other models are possible, such as the community interest corporation in the UK. In that model there is one thing very clear: the checkability of drivers is many times larger and at the same time legally secured. In the Netherlands, this checkability is stuck in codes established by the drivers themselves. That's not corrective enough. Mr Van Dijk also knows that the Chamber is looking for other models that require much more, including for the driver, laying down the core task of governing an educational institution, namely ensuring good education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr Van Meenen comes up with the statement that the Dutch Parliament is the co-determination council of the Netherlands. Fine. Put your money where your mouth is. In this case, the participation council should also have the right of assent to the appointment of a director. In other words, will Mr Van Meenen support the amendment tabled by GroenLinks and SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u32	I'm gonna take a look at that. But I am thinking, together with Mr Mohandis, of thinking rather in front. I would prefer the participation council in front to have the right to appoint the director. I think we'll get a lot less of this kind of situation, but I'm going to look at it very seriously. I do not want to go through all the powers of the House of Representatives with Mr Van Dijk to see whether this should also apply to schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mr Beertema, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u34	I would like to correct something very briefly. I still understand that the Socialists do not understand that the Dutch Parliament is the co-determination council of the Netherlands, but I am surprised that the Eminence of D66 does not understand that either. We are not the co-determination council of the Netherlands; we are the boss of the Netherlands. Just remember that, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u35	You're right. Then let's make participation in the schools the boss, don't you think, Mr. Beertema? Thank you for this tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u36	The latter is an extremely revolutionary proposal. I'm a little freaked out, despite my friendship with Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u37	It's a joke, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u38	This friendship will not be affected, but we cannot say that we want to invest legislation in the participation of schools and that a governance is only an executive body. In other words, perhaps Mr Van Meenen could admit that this was a slip of the tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u39	I am not in favour of making the participation councils the boss of the schools, if that's what you mean. I was challenged to do so by Mr Bertema. It's the model that matters to me. Opponents constantly use the argument that there is co-administration and mixing of roles when participation is given real powers. I'll fight that. You can also see this here: we have two bodies here, the Cabinet and the House of Representatives, both of which have the necessary powers. However, it is quite clear who is responsible for what. So that's the line I choose. I am not going to translate every power of the Second Chamber into a power of participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u40	You're hearing a sigh of relief, Mr. Chairman. I think we should avoid that comparison and agree on the need to ensure checks-and-balances in any position of power and authority. Each context requires its own model of checks-and-balances. In my view, then, you will not be there if you transfer part of the powers that are actually exercised by control to participation. Does Mr Van Meenen agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u41	That is a little too vague for me, I say to Mr Bishop. In the Netherlands, we simply have co-determination councils. Those co-determination councils have powers and on a number of points also the right of assent, so the idea that a co-determination council has a right of assent is not new or revolutionary at all. The question is only at what points of that entire laundry list of subjects that participation councils and boards deal with, right of consent is a better choice than right of advice. We have a lot of debates in this Chamber about whether the money is being put in the right place. I hope that Mr Bishop agrees with me that there are insufficient checks-and-balances everywhere where that is not the case. That is why we need to strengthen this opposition and ensure that those for whom these institutions exist are given something to say to students, teachers, parents and pupils about where that money is going. As a representative of the party that provides extra money, I am treated like no other if that money does not land properly. I want to do something about that. If colleagues have an alternative rather than a strengthening of participation, I would like to hear it, but I assume that Mr Bishop is not in favour of Mrs Bussemaker becoming the director of all schools in the Netherlands, which label every euro with 'you can spend this on ICT'. Of course, I cannot ask another question, but Mr Bishop understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u42	Thank you very much, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u43	Is it over yet? Too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u44	I see Mr Bishop walking down to the interrupting microphone, but that is not the intention. It wasn't an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u45	Still, it sounded very inviting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u46	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u47	I had my second round. So I thought I wasn't allowed anymore, but I'm allowed to ask a third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u48	Well, I'd rather not, unless it's really urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr Van Meenen has given me the glove and I would like to take it up. I would not like to talk about the line of participation. I would like to strengthen the balance sheet in a different way. If Mr Van Meenen withdraws the amendments for the time being, we can start again with a blank list.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u50	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the Law strengthening administrative power, which results from abuses in some schools: Amarantis and Inholland. In these two institutions, drivers have caused enormous problems. Later we also saw major problems at other institutions, such as the University of Amsterdam and the ROC Leiden. The question is whether these were incidents, as the Minister says. I don't think so, because I see a pattern. We see drivers who have all the room to conduct malpractice, whether they are diploma fraud or megalomaniac real estate projects. The rulers ruled their schools as if they were their kingdoms. Students and teachers but also politicians can hardly intervene. This is the cause of the so-called governance model, the model in which directors, together with a supervisory board, hold virtually all the strings. The question is: does this model work? As far as we are concerned, these so-called incidents point to a structural problem. There is a lack of democracy and control, but there is also a lack of commitment on the part of directors. They're not into education. They're into their egos. They often see their school as their property. How is it that in public institutions we regularly see administrators in care, education, but also in the housing of people who have no connection with their people? I'd like to get a reflection on that. As far as we are concerned, a school or university is a community of students, staff and school management. These people together form the institution. So it also makes sense if they make the policy with each other, not through top-down governance. Isn't that top-down board something from the last century? A modern institution is governed much more jointly and from below. That's the 21st century education. Does the Minister agree with me? So there is every reason to get to work, not only because of Amarantis and Inholland, but because of a wider unease, which came to a climax last year at the occupation of the Virgin House. There was a national debate about the lack of control and the outspoken sense of return. Now we have a law, but that law is a missed opportunity. Some changes are being made here and there, but the emphasis is very much on advisory rights. In general, the status quo remains upright, as if nothing had happened in the past year. Why has the Minister no longer done with the discontent expressed in the Virgin House? Take an example from the party chairman of the PvdA, Hans Spekman. He said the following in the Volkskrant. "If students and lecturers at the University of Amsterdam demonstrate against return thinking and for more control, a PvdAer should, in accordance with our principles, stand alongside such people, regardless of the coalition in which you sit. Jet Bussemaker is too much involved in that return thinking, she's in the cabinet too much on the VVD side. The world turned upside down. If she does not turn, our group must correct her from the Lower House." Well, Mr Mohandis, you know what you have to do. We're gonna see it today. Is he going to pick up Mr. Spekman's glove? There is every reason to do so. Those who listen carefully discover a growing discontent about the great power of teachers. We need to force a breakthrough. Look at my note On to the new university, which we discussed in December. Today we can take care of business. Firstly, that is the strengthening of control. It has been eroded since the introduction of the MUB, the Law Modernising University Board Organization. This law was introduced by Purple in the 1990s. Then the board of directors took over all the power, along with the supervisory boards. Teachers and students had it checked out. It was especially difficult, all that participation. During the hearing on 1 October, students and teachers also indicated that they would have liked to have seen more measures in the field of participation. Take the appointment of directors: a crucial point, because a board must have a link with the workplace. This is now lacking because of the shady model of governance. This can be done much better, and there is now an excellent opportunity for that. Especially at the University of Amsterdam, we are currently looking for a new president. There is discontent about the procedure. Instead of an open democratic procedure, there is still a great deal of shadowiness. Teachers argue for openness, but the Supervisory Board hardly moves. Something did happen. There are two students and two teachers on the application committee. However, the committee consists of nine people in total. The staff and the students are therefore a minority. Does the Minister share the view that this is not enough? Shouldn't the affair at least be fifty-fifty? In addition, at the end of the process, the co-determination council in Amsterdam may hold a consultation meeting, after which it will give its opinion to the supervisory board. That is richly late, because it happens in the final stage when all the talks have been made and the decisions have actually already been made. To seek advice from others is impossible, because the conversations are also confidential. Does the Minister share the view that real participation is still far from being achieved? It can be so much more beautiful and democratic, for example through a public debate in which candidates defend their vision of the university. That's a proposal from ReThink UvA. This platform aims to prevent the last moment when someone from the old boys network is launched again. Various names already sing around: Wouter Bos, Ronald Plasterk, even Jan-Peter Balkenende is mentioned. Where is Professor Akkermans? Now the Minister can say: if the UvA wants it, she can take care of anything. But it's the supervisory board that has the last word, and it's not exactly cooperating. Then we'll have to give this one a hand, won't we? Teachers and students would be very happy about that. Is the Minister prepared to support a more democratic procedure? This question has already been asked by the teachers, by letter, but they have not received an answer. Today, the Minister can give it to us. More democracy can also be achieved through the election of the government. The Minister is against this, because running a university is a professional matter. But that's weird, isn't it? What about the House of Representatives? Isn't driving a country a professional thing? Why not have more faith in the academic community? I insist that the House of Representatives is the co-determination council of the Netherlands and that the two should be more similar. In my amendment to item No. 11 the institution will be able to hold a weighted election, possibly with a nomination of the participation. The board will then have to answer directly to students and employees. That's how you get a connection between community and government. But even without an election, we can take steps. A logical step would be to give the right of assent to the appointment of directors. See the amendment by GroenLinks and SP. In addition, you should also be able to act when drivers make a mess of it. The Minister can now dismiss members of the Supervisory Board, but we are not there yet. Legally, it's quite a job to hold directors accountable. It would therefore be a good thing if participation could go to the Business Chamber in case of maladministration. Those are the people who are directly involved. If there is then malpractice, the participation of directors should also be able to dismiss, as should the House of Representatives. That is why my amendment to item No. 12. I'm asking for a response to this. I would also ask the Minister whether she can send drivers away from malpractice throughout education. Or is this limited to a designation to the Supervisory Board? What about special schools? It shouldn't matter whether it's a public school or a special school. If the board is making a mess of things, the minister should be able to intervene as the final manager. I've advocated an experiment with a democratic university before. The Minister supports that, if there is support for it. That is good, because there is certainly interest in some institutions. A democratisation and decentralisation committee has been set up at the UvA, which will come forward with proposals for the summer. Does the Minister agree with me that the opinions of that committee should be given full scope if there is consensus on this? We don't have to confine ourselves to the UvA. That is why I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to set up a national committee, which makes proposals for democratisation of education, from primary school to university. As far as I am concerned, this could be an advisory group with teachers, professors and students. This consultative group should look beyond strengthening participation. Good proposals are being made today, but the educational community is wider than participation. It could include co-government, elections, referenda and the role of the Supervisory Board. This group should be able to look at all possibilities without restrictions. I'd like a response. I have a few more questions about strengthening participation. The right of assent to the budget is regulated in higher education, but not in other sectors. Is the government prepared to take care of this also for basic, continuing and secondary vocational education? See also the D66 and SP amendments. Is the Minister prepared to give consent to the participation councils in other important matters, such as the distribution model, the workload of the staff, contracts or commitments with third parties? Are there possibilities for the approval of faculty councils in the education and examination scheme (OER)? Is the Minister prepared to have training directors appointed on a proposal from the training committee? What is the Minister's position on the idea of making a binding referendum possible on all matters to which the co-decision council has the right of assent? We also want to strengthen the training committees. They need to be upgraded to participation bodies. The coalition has actually tabled an amendment to that effect. Is the Minister gonna take over? For the implementation of my motion calling for the work of the co-determination council to be made more possible, the government deserves a compliment. Good steps are being taken. It concerns the motion concerning the remuneration and training of members of the council, the settlement of disputes and the possibility of annulling decisions. Universities have invested billions in real estate in recent years. According to De Groene Amsterdammer, the institutions have around €6 billion worth of real estate plans on the table. They are at great risk according to the article. Also look at the megalomaniac plan of the University of Groningen to open a branch in China. Does the Minister recognize the numbers and see the dangers? How does it prevent a new educational disaster from arising from reckless adventures? When will we get an overview of all risky investments by educational institutions, as requested in a motion? We say take that real estate away from education and place it with the National Real Estate Company. An intermediate step can be to place real estate outside the lumpsum. What also helps is right of consent to property decisions. A good step towards the necessary checks-and-balances. Recently, we were robbed by high declarations from educational administrators. This sneak route for pocket fillers needs to disappear. What's the status of the investigation on this? What can the Minister do to counter these bizarre claims? In this respect, I am in favour of a right of assent from the co-determination council. The same applies to the salaries of directors. Does the Minister agree that these salaries should also be fixed with the agreement of the students and teachers? Finally. Together with Mr Mohandis, I have made a wonderful amendment to better anchor the validity of credits so that institutions cannot let them go because of efficiency motives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u52	There is another question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u53	I would like to discuss with Mr Van Dijk one more point from the SP note. The SP proposes to set up an advisory committee; I would just like to put it this way. There are relatively few disputes between boards and participation councils in the Netherlands. There might have to be a lot more, but you could also avoid some by asking for some kind of pre-advisation. To my knowledge, the SP makes a proposal to make it possible for a participation council to consult the Disputes Committee in advance. I do not think Mr Van Dijk has mentioned this. Would he be willing to do anything with me in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u54	Yeah, I'm open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u55	This seems to me to be a good and brief answer. Very good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union. It's his maiden speech. In this house it is customary that a maiden speech should not be interrupted. Some will be jealous of you today, Mr Bruins. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr. Chairman. Three of my best friends are postman, gardener and employee at a gas station. Just delicious people who work with their hands and who are confused of status. Every night when they come home, it is clear what they have added to our society. When I talk to them, they put me firmly on the ground. They live in a reality where words such as "policy," "governance," "checks-and-balances" and "efficiency" have no meaning whatsoever. I, too, want to make a concrete contribution to our society through my work. In my previous job, I did that as a funder of technical science that leads to innovations that really change our lives, but frankly, as director of those beautiful club professionals, I was mainly meeting externally around tables with men with ties. Thanks to my friends I got an antenna that makes me alert when in such a meeting it is no longer about reality. Suddenly, the congregators present begin to use hollow words, difficult words that have no meaning. Suddenly incentives are needed or a level playing field is advocated. Suddenly a win-win situation or a coherent strategy is needed. Then it is no longer a question of reality, but of a false reality of rules and procedures. We are no longer talking about a living system, where people look each other in the eye, but about a system where things are not possible because the rules do not allow it. In the film The matrix, main figure Neo was presented with a choice: "Do you take the red pill or do you take the blue pill?" Once you take the red pill, you see the reality. It's harder and harder to live in reality. It's much easier to stay in the system and do a little bit of your thing. A lot of us are stuck in the system. If we are honest, we get tired of that, because at the same time we know the desire to mean something in reality, to contribute to a good life for the people around us and, for us as a representative, for the people outside this building, the people in the country. We all want to be meaningful and of value here, and we can do that if we dare to step out of the system and fight together that system of rules and procedures. Then we are helping not only those three friends of mine, but also the teacher, the nurse, the entrepreneur, the train engineer, the technician, in short all those professionals, all those craftsmen and professional women who are working day in, day out to make this country something beautiful. For those professionals, those real people who are so valuable in their environment, I want to commit myself. As a member of a small group, I have a huge portfolio, but this is what connects everything for me. Where the system wins the human measure, the human being and the community in which he lives, works, moves and breathes must be put at the centre again. This applies to too large educational institutions, to out-of-control privatisations, to public procurement, to lending to small entrepreneurs, to innovation in care. Wherever models and procedures are needed to gain common sense, we must dare to address each other and put each other firmly on the ground. Within education, I would like to make efforts to reduce administrative pressure for teachers, schools with more influence for teachers and a pabo where you learn the subject of education. In my other portfolios, I want to work hard for innovative entrepreneurs, SMEs, a smart manufacturing industry, technicians, fishermen and all those professionals who work with their heads, hearts and hands and who each day contribute to a real economy with real tangible added value. When I see that in education, entire schools have been destroyed by drivers who had no contact with the workplace and pushed forward megalomaniac construction plans, and by regulators who ignored reprehensible behavior, I get furious. Everyone points to each other and to the rules, but no one takes responsibility and no one is called to account. When I see ordinary people getting crushed in that system, it gets to me. Recently we talked about ROC Leiden. We know the situation at Inholland and the UvA. We know the reports on Amarantis with nail-hard conclusions. The quality of education was secondary to the buildings and the collection of pupils. There was "a very large distance between the board of directors and the education process." The contact with the workplace had disappeared and the supervisory board was also at a great distance from the primary process. There were doubts about the professional and ethical behaviour of directors. You can't and you can't. These incidents need to be seen in the spirit of time, the spirit of new public management. Institutions had to be run more like a company and then suddenly it's about efficiency and competition between institutions. Then you want to make the most beautiful building and the organization as big as possible. The term "remote control" came into play. That was originally meant to become more professional, but it led to an undesirable distance from the educational workplace. The committee that examined the problems at Amarantis concluded that administrators of educational organisations have focused too much on output, results and returns. In contrast to the professionals on the workplace, who had the right interaction with the student and the quality of the learning process, let that be the core of good education. After the list of shocking conclusions, it is tempting to increase the number of legal measures: more inspection supervision, more powers for the minister and more controls. But these examples include incidents involving reprehensible behavior of drivers. In many institutions, the distance between management, supervisory board and the workplace is not so great. That is precisely where there is cooperation every day on good education. In addition, many institutions have already improved and new governance codes have been introduced. In more government supervision, I see no solution but a new problem. More government oversight is a solution that comes from the system of creatability and false security: take the blue pill. More government control leads to increasing distrust, paper realities and post-clearance corrections. Good education is achieved together within the institution with everyone who is important in that school or university: board, supervisors, teachers, students, students and, in the case of primary and secondary education, parents, as was normal when most special schools were still based on associations. But the solution is not in the mind either. I am looking at Mr Van Dijk, who said that we should send students along. In this respect, some of my colleagues' proposals go far too far. The roles must be clear. The board must operate with the notion of "consistently" attached. The board must govern, not on the basis of power but on the basis of conviction and always from education and therefore with pupils and teachers centrally. A good leader creates rebuttal through stubborn individuals to gather around him. In a government where everyone is alike, bad decision-making takes place. That is why diversity in governance is needed. In a board in which everyone resembles each other, no reply is given. People are talking about each other. One laughs away the problems with a scampering joke and everyone joins in the sham reality. And oh how many times have I experienced this around conference tables with men! A healthy organisation is characterised by clear mandates, clear tasks, clear responsibilities and the courage to give and receive feedback. That is why I want a professional supervisory board with a heart for education and not for side jobs and fees. I would like to see a participation council, which can provide a substantive reply and has rights in such a way that it is taken seriously. And I want a board without grandeur and with the same aim as the professionals on the workplace: good and small-scale education for every student and student. To achieve a good internal governance culture, we have nothing to do with new obligations; it even often gets in the way. It gives administrative burdens and perverse incentives. It is a cultural issue and it was always a culture in which there was no reply. Let me therefore say that I welcome all the improvements made by the Minister in recent years. A few years ago, the law has already changed: more powers for the minister to intervene, the Education and Good Governance Act PO/VO, right of assent on the institution plan and right of assent on the main lines of the budget in higher education. These new developments, together with the Law on participation in schools according to the Christian Union, already give sufficient strength to participation to provide a sound reply and to link the workplace to the top of the institutions. What is important is that we now give the schools the chance to really get to work in peace with this strengthened participation. The Minister would, of course, like to hear what the Christian Union thinks about the proposed changes to the education laws. I'm getting there now. I can tell the Minister that we are mostly positive about this. The major changes have already been made in recent years, and the Minister is doing a bit more. Recruitment with public profiles will apply both to supervisory functions and to management, regular consultation between supervision and participation, increased participation in the appointment and dismissal of directors and the guarantee that participation will have access to training and facilities. Fine, but according to the Christian Union, one part of the law should be deleted, namely the obligation to notify the internal supervisor. I have tabled an amendment on this. Although the text in the legislative proposal is kindly worded, it is and remains a reporting obligation which does not lead to better supervision within the educational institutions. Despite the mild wording, the comments of the Council of State remain valid. It causes confusion and blurring of internal and external supervision. The task of the inspection is to actively monitor externally. The obligation to provide information from education has already been extended through the administration, and in higher education we also have accreditation in addition to inspection. This additional obligation to notify or to provide information is imposed unilaterally and does not contribute to it and is a result of constipated mistrust. Any supervisor may go to the inspection if he or she is concerned about certain developments. Moreover, we can see that in the extreme cases Amarantis and ROC Leiden a signal light probably hadn't solved anything. Both the inspection and the minister were already aware of negative signals. I would like a response from the Minister to the amendment. I would like to respond to the Minister on this point. Although I am opposed to the unilateral reporting obligation due to the confusion of roles, I suggest that we facilitate voluntary reporting of abuses by supervisors. I am considering a motion calling for the establishment of a whistle-blower system in the inspection of education. Sometimes we read about teachers being bullied away or supervisors laying down their portfolios when they see abuses happening within schools. And just these brave loners, these people who are in reality, are needed to respond to megalomaniac plans of directors. They must be able to report wrongdoing and without burden to the inspection and thereby be protected from harm by a whistleblower scheme. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this idea. As I outlined above, teachers and students have already been made much stronger through participation in recent years in order to provide a sound reply, but together with Mr Rog I have tabled an amendment to extend it a little further. In our view, it is a good idea to involve employee participation more closely in the appointment of directors, so that the top of the institution has the support of professionals at the workplace, a reality check of the staff, whether the man or woman at the top is cut out of the right pieces of work. It is good to make the appointment of directors more transparent and thus to increase the involvement of participation. The Minister opts for an advisory right for training committees, but why doesn't she go further? Colleagues Mohandis and Duisenberg have tabled an amendment to this point, which the Christian Union welcomes. Good rebuttal must be organized and trained. The Christian Union asks for a different explanation at the level of support and facilities for participation bodies, particularly in MBO and higher education. I would like to receive a response from the Minister in relation to the bill on the conclusions of the Participation Monitor that many of the respondents feel that there is too little legal support and too little education budget. The Christian Union attaches importance to the participation of pupils in education at their school and the discussions that this brings. The importance of pupils must be at the heart of the matter and therefore they must be heard. Together with Mr Duisenberg, I have tabled an amendment which regulates that each school should include a student participation policy in the school guide. Pupils' participation policies define how the participation of pupils is regulated, for example by setting up a student council which has periodic consultations with the school board. This student participation policy is submitted for approval and has the right to consent to the pupil participation council. Good rebuttal comes not only from participation, but also from the supervisors. The Association of Supervisors in Educational Institutions, the VTOI, is working on the professionalisation of supervision, rejuvenation and diversity in supervision and is discussing a register for supervisors. What is the Minister's position on these issues? Is it prepared to support these developments and, if possible, speed them up? Liability of former directors and supervisors at institutions in the semi-public sector is a matter of great interest. However, interested parties and the government have hardly any legal remedies to recover their damage directly from former drivers. It continues to push with a string, as Leiden professor Steef Bartman wrote in December. If I am not mistaken, the Minister and I agree that directors, including in the public sector, should be personally liable for demonstrable failure. Can the Minister tell me what's going on with that? Mr President, I shall conclude. I get my drive and energy from people; people who have learned a profession and who shape our society with heart and soul. Let us put teachers in their power and give them the opportunity to build living communities that will equip the next generation for tomorrow's society in a healthy game of governance and supervision. Remote control makes schools into factories, but a government remotely gives confidence to the teacher and his expertise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u57	I congratulate you on this beautiful and inspiring speech. I would also like to thank you for sharing your background and personal experiences with us. You show that personal motivations can be an important motivation to be politically active. I wish you every success in your parliamentary membership. I will be the first to congratulate you before I suspend the sitting for a few minutes, so that colleagues can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Bruins on his maiden speech. It must have been wonderful to speak without interruptions. I hope he enjoyed it, because this was the very last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u59	I saw Mr. Jasper van Dijk staring patiently because he wasn't allowed to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u60	I saw Mr Van Dijk moving on his chair all the time. I have heard fine words from Mr Bruins, first of all about everyone's concrete contribution to society and to the people in his or her environment, which appeals to me enormously. Secondly, on this subject, I have heard a very balanced story about governance with support and the right reply from all those involved. Thank you for that. The VVD Group is also co-signatory of the amendment on student councils, which Mr Bruins has just explained. In previous debates I have often used the Solar Challenge as an inspirational example. I see that Mr Van Meenen is getting too ambitious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u61	Yeah, this is asking for trouble. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u62	I have nothing against the Solar Challenge; I'd like to hear more about it in a moment. We had no opportunity to interrupt Mr Bruins during his maiden speech on his amendment on student councils. That is a pity, perhaps also for Mr Bruins. I do not know whether Mr Duisenberg is going to say more about that amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u63	He hasn't had that chance yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u64	I do not know whether Mr Duisenberg is going to say more about that amendment after saying that he is a co-signator of the amendment. If he says he is a co-signator, I may be able to ask him a question about the amendment, but perhaps he will come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u65	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u66	There is also another amendment on student councils tabled by PvdA and D66, which also states that pupils and parents should be given the opportunity to set up such a council if they so wish. Can Mr Duisenberg tell me the difference between that amendment and the amendment tabled by the Christian Union and the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u67	The amendment tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis says that if there are people within the school who want to set up a student council, that will happen. Our amendment leaves more room for different forms of pupil participation, but does give pupils' education in participation the right to consent to that form of pupil participation. So this is a more open amendment, with more room for different schools and different ways in which schools and students want to fill it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u68	Can I understand why the two amendments are not mutually exclusive in Mr Duisenberg's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u69	They're definitely mutually exclusive. The D66 and PvdA amendments are much stricter. It doesn't offer that space. In our amendment, on the contrary, we are looking for room for pupils and schools to do what they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u70	Please continue, Mr Duisenberg. Mr Van Meenen, has your question been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u71	I don't understand anything. Mr Duisenberg says that his amendment gives room for pupils and parents to do as they wish. Our amendment states that if parents or pupils want a student council, they must be able to set it up. So I don't see any contradiction at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u72	There are different forms of student participation. That space is left in our amendment. If Mr Van Meenen reads the explanatory statement on our amendment, he will see very clearly the difference between the two amendments. We have different schools and different preferences in the Netherlands. We would like to give room for that. However, we fully support the importance of student participation. That is also what I say from my private sphere, because every night at home they tell us how important that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u74	Let me say it again: in previous debates I have often used the Solar Challenge as an inspirational example. The technical universities of Delft, Eindhoven and Twente are all participating in this. This year, too, they have beaten international competition. When I talk to students, teachers and directors, the sparks of pride, ambition and passion are splashing. Not much later, however, also sounds sighing, almost begging: please, The Hague, what is now coming to pass on corrupted democratisation and rights do not do that to us, do not destroy the ambition. Let us not forget that the reasons for the conservative occupation actions were in the interests of the future that the institution, the UvA, wanted to make. She wanted to reorganize some small studies to keep it affordable and she wanted the UvA's and VU's beta Faculties to enter into an ambitious partnership. These were choices where sustainable quality of education was the starting point. In 2009, a large majority of the Chamber supported the Hamer motion, which expressed the ambition to join the top five knowledge-based economies. In 2010, the Chamber embraced the Veerman report, which indicated that future-proof education requires differentiation, profiling and ambition. At the end of 2015, the ambition was also expressed to be in the top five countries that get the most out of talents. All the noses are in the same direction, you'd say. Good governance, a lot of guts and strong discussions are essential to achieving those goals. In the debate on governance in 2013, I compared the governance framework with a fire, a fire that you build with four solid blocks, leaning against each other in such a pyramid. You know how it is. They must be in balance, or the fire will fall over. The first block is targeted funding, the second good internal governance and supervision, the third good external governance and supervision and the fourth comprehensive accountability and reporting. In between the blocks there must be room for oxygen so that the fire can flame. To achieve this, we also created a financial impulse through the study advance and discussed the future of accreditation of training. Today we are discussing internal governance and accountability. So today we are talking about fire, top education and top research. They have to be central. The Virgin House has led many of the parties in the Chamber to a state of control. That threatens to tarnish this bill and this debate. The Virgin House has nothing to do with educational quality and study. In fact, many of the occupiers weren't even students or teachers. The Virgin House occupiers are about control, more rights, as an end in itself. It is a small group that wants to draw a one-sided interest as a right. The VVD is committed to the students, the teachers and everyone else who want to be in the top five through maximum opportunities and development. I say to the occupiers: we will not be hijacked by you today. Of course, counter forces and strong discussions between all those involved are of great importance. Those are students, students and teachers. Society and the region around a school or institution also play a role in this, as do the declining field of profession. Many studies and reports on good governance have been produced in recent years. Many measures have also been taken by the Minister of Education, including the Quality Assurance and Higher Education Act, this Act strengthening administrative power, adding the continuity paragraph to the annual report, strengthening the role of the external auditor and adding information, advice and consent rights for participation. The sector responded with sector codes. These have already been mentioned in Mr Bruins' presentation. The vo, the MBO, the HBO and wo have a code of good educational governance. From the Chamber, we added the right of assent on the main lines of the budget to the study advance. The proposals contained in the Minister's legislative proposal largely reflect these earlier reports and discussions and put the points on the i. As far as the VVD is concerned, most of these proposals are fine. I'll stop right here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u75	It is a pity that Mr Duisenberg did not attend the discussions that some members of the Education Committee, including his colleague Mrs Lucas, have recently had with Professor Strikwerda on governance. Then he would not be defending with such fire the internal codes that have been agreed so by now in all the educational sectors. This professor of governance burns them to the ground, because they only organise a kind of cozy satisfaction with each other. They do not lead at all to a culture of contact and to the real focus on the responsibilities that exist, and they do not focus on the importance of education and research. How does Mr Duisenberg view that? Is he satisfied with the content of those governance codes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u76	In fact, I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen. I haven't been to that meeting, but directors and supervisory boards just have to do their job properly. Those codes say on paper how it works, but then that work has to be done properly. If it does not happen properly, if there is maladministration, then you must also be liable. It's gotta be that clear. I am going to put a few questions to the Minister about this later, because I do think it is important. I'm not saying everything's going great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u77	I want to say it even more strongly: it's not going great everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u78	That's what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u79	I'm saying things aren't great everywhere. That's a subtle difference. That's not what I'm talking about right now. I would like to ask Mr Duisenberg whether we should not prevent, by organizing real counter-force, that things are getting completely out of hand in a number of places. How can it be that, as a liberal, Mr Duisenberg here puts only the directors in position, has no regard for and no confidence in the power of people in education, and does not want to give them control over the fundamental decisions within educational institutions? Because that's the essence of his argument, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u80	That is not at the heart of my speech. I say that what is now needs to be properly applied. This is not being sufficiently exploited. There is already a whole framework, a whole forest of rules. I just mentioned all the rules and codes that came up with them. We must now ensure that this is done properly. At Amarantis and ROC Leiden, my party was at the front to say: what were the roles and what are the liabilities? I'm not running away from that at all. I think D66 ran away from that more than the VVD. But then you don't have to go back to throwing new rules and more co-determination. They probably wouldn't have prevented that. Then you just have to ensure that the roles of the supervisory board, the management board and all other roles, including those of participation, are properly carried out, as it was agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u81	I had to nest at the start of Mr Duisenberg's story. If I understand correctly, he says in so many words: democratization leads to a reduction in ambition and poorer decisions in education. What's he basing that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u82	I can imagine that the word'solar' has given rise to something positive from Mr Grashoff. I'm glad he's coming forward with that. At some point, you have to be able to make decisions. Why does it lead to conservatism? I gave an example of the decisions taken in Amsterdam on the beta faculty and the small studies, and in the interrupting debate with Mr Van Meenen I gave an example of what decisions you are talking about when it comes to consent. What kind of business can you stop or delay? These things have to do with profiling, differentiation and ambition. It is precisely these things that we have said: they are so important. I'd like to give all the space to that. I don't want to frustrate that with new rules again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u83	Mr Duisenberg may not know, but I still know about the origins of the Solar Challenge. That was within TU Delft in the period in which we were still relying on the old Law on University Administrative Reforms, which was contested law governing democratic governance. There is no link between whether or not there is ambition and whether or not there is a democratic structure. It's a value in itself. The important thing is that you organize as good a board as possible with each other. The Solar Challenge is exactly the wrong example. It was about students' ambition and commitment. The same students do not want to give Mr Duisenberg a position on the board of the university.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u84	That position is indeed there. I am also talking about the University of Twente, the University of Eindhoven. Mr Mohandis and I have made a proposal together with the LSVb to allow students to study more flexibly. Those are students who know how to find their board of directors. They approach us together and say, "We want to do this." That's just a normal way of working together. I believe that this ambition can absolutely be achieved in the current model. It's just a matter of human size.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u85	I listened very carefully to Mr Duisenberg. It is a pity that many of the measures proposed today are easily put together as a kind of compensation to squatters. If the discontent wasn't much wider at the UvA, then my question is. If there is mistrust of central participation, it also has implications for the board of directors. In short, the extension of the right of assent is not done on the basis of mistrust, is it not? It strengthens the contradiction, sound decision-making and support. I hear very little about that from Mr Duisenberg. One of the most far-reaching proposals, including the proposals widely put forward in education countries, including at the UvA, is for example more decentralised decision-making. I am glad that Mr Duisenberg is with me in this. We have tabled an amendment together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u86	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u87	It is mainly a story of "there were some squatters and we should not reward them." However, that is not what this debate is about. This is about a broader discontent and about how participation, how conflict can be better organised. I want that to be the subject of the debate. I want an answer to that rather than sticking around in something that happened. We need to think about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u88	As far as I am concerned, this debate is not about origin either. It is not about rights and participation, it must be about ambition and quality. That is what this debate is about. I note the following about the vision of participation. Again, many rights of consent, advice and information have already been organised. Rights have also been added in recent years. Let's see how they work first. Together, we voted in favour of the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget. So let us first look at how things work before we close it completely and destroy all ambition. What the left side of the Chamber is doing, I believe, is testifying to a lack of ambition and to the capture of constipated distrust. You are listening to one part, but I have heard speakers say that there is a build-up of mistrust. I think you should give room for ambition and quality of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u89	I'll tell you what I thought of the hearing later in my speech. I think it is a testament to a lack of ambition to always fall back on the doer of death, which I may also hear from others, namely that there is 'everything and that we need to see if that works'. As politicians, we also have the task of finding out what is not there yet. Sometimes we owe it to our booth, now that there is a legislative proposal and motions have been passed last year, to deliver butter to the fish: how do we ensure that decisions are taken jointly? "Together" is: board, students and teachers. As a result, support has always been secured and the ambitions of institutions are shared. That's something you should appeal to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u90	You may respond briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u91	I fully agree with that, which is why we have consistently demonstrated over the last three years the need to ensure that students and teachers are placed in a position, particularly at the level of education. That's what we were talking about here. As far as the other subjects are concerned, I cannot escape the impression that they have something to do with a number of activities and events in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mr Van Meenen, you have just interrupted on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u93	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u94	No? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u95	Let me just establish a few things. One. I've been talking about this for three and a half years. Then the activists at the Virgin House were still in high school. That was no reason for me to talk about it, Mr Duisenberg will agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u96	I was just responding to Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u97	Two. The VVD says that the report lacks the Minister's ambition. Now Mr Duisenberg gives the impression that he says 'what the minister does is totally good', but it can only be one of two. May I add a third question? Mr Duisenberg rightly mentions the right of assent on the main lines of the budget. This has already been done in higher education, and we have taken care of this together. My question to him is: why should that not apply to other sectors of education, do I think he is on my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u98	Let's talk about the ambition. I am going to say something about training committees, because we have been working on this for far too long. My predecessor as spokesperson for education and myself have been working on it for the past five to ten years, it is taking far too long and the ambition in this proposal is too low. That seems clear to me, hence the amendment I tabled together with Mr Mohandis. The other question was about the main lines of the budget. We have had a lot of debates on this, it has been part of the study advance agreement. I still don't think it's a good idea. I voted in favour, just as you also voted in favour of a number of things, because that is part of the agreement we have. I just don't think it's a good idea. I have given three examples in the interrupting debate. Give institutions the space to be manoeuvrable, to invest in a talent program, in certain subjects or in certain disciplines. The right of assent makes it all far too rigid, but I have agreed to the whole. I just do not think it is a good idea to do it in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr Van Meenen's final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u100	I'm about to fall off my chair. There's a bill coming from two coalition parties. I'm talking about the study advance that has been supported with great pain and difficulty by two opposition parties, GroenLinks and D66. Now it appears that one of the foundations of that proposal does not actually have the support of the VVD. I will pass it by, but it is strange that Mr Duisenberg mentions this point in this debate as one of the things that has changed and strengthened the position of participation in recent years. It's really one of two and we're going on this line as far as I'm concerned. There can be no reason to give consent in higher education and not in other sectors. Mr Duisenberg cannot explain that to me unless he wants me to put my arms back on him. That can't be his intention. Let us have a bit of a consistent policy in this country!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u101	I have had debates with Mr Van Meenen for the past three years. Mr Van Meenen can review everything I have said about the right of assent. He knows that I was not and am not in favour of this, but an agreement is an agreement. Mr Van Meenen can hold the VVD to that. That seems clear to me, there is no difference. It applies to higher education, but that does not mean that I think it is a good idea for other sectors as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u102	Of course, I appreciate Mr Duisenberg's openness when he says that he did not really want the right of assent on the main lines of the budget in higher education, but was pushed down the throat by D66. My question now is: are there any other elements in the loan system that he really wants to get rid of? I ask that in view of the 2017 elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u103	That debate has already taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u104	What I am pleased with and proud of is that we have taken responsibility, unlike the CDA. We have been investing money in higher education. We have created a system with which we have monitored accessibility and at the same time we are making money available for higher education up to one billion a year. I'm proud of that. If you do that with four parties that want to take responsibility, it's part of what you give and what you take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u105	Thank you, that's clear. In other sectors, the VVD does not want to support the main lines of the budget, as does the CDA. Does this mean that, in future, we will still be able to contact the VVD when it comes to revoking the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget in higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr Rog knows the VVD as a party in which: appointment is a deal. When I make an appointment that goes for a very long term, I want to stick to that as a VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u107	(NL) Mr President, may I just say a brief word? For example, the social internship was introduced one year with the VVD in the government while it was abolished the other year, also with the VVD in the government. I therefore think it is a justified question for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u108	I understand that we do not give primary school children the right to vote on the main lines of the budget, but I am also sensitive to Mr Van Meenen's argument: if you do it in one sector, why not in another? Maybe I can bring the gentlemen together a little bit. I wonder what Mr Duisenberg's view is of the idea of giving specific approval to staffing in other sectors in the participation councils on the broad lines of the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u109	It is well known that the current rights of participation have been extended, but at the same time insufficient use has been made of them. I don't think you should extend the current rights any more. You'd better make sure that what's out there is going to work out, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u110	I'm hearing some doubt. Maybe the three of us can have another cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u111	I would have stuck to my statement to the Minister. As far as the VVD is concerned, most of the proposals are fine. The VVD alone is not convinced of the obligation to report to the Supervisory Board. I'll come back to this later. Today's debate is almost no longer about the Minister's bill, but rather about the abuse of new rules and rights that a number of parties want to add. Is it not gradually more important to implement the existing good rather than to come up with new rules? Some new laws, such as the right of assent to the budget, have hardly been launched in practice. Some laws are known to be used far too little. I am thinking here of the different rights of consent, advice and information that participation already has. Adding new rights and emergency brakes now may satisfy the rights addicted Maiden House occupier, but is equivalent to the deafening of the fire for the other stakeholders in education: conservatism is back. As Mr. Den Bakker of the Catholic and Christian Education Association said at the Round Table on 1 October, "I see this mainly as an expression of the distrust that apparently exists in directors and supervisors. That is unnecessary, because in practice I see how they are responsible for a good relationship with this body." Mr Den Bakker then said: "It is important for the House of Representatives to exercise restraint and give developments a chance in practice." Mr Nolen gave us in the same round table: "It's much less about rights, but just about it. You have to be careful looking for contradictions between participation and governance. You have to look to the future together." At present, participation in higher education already has the right to advice, information and consent on strategic plans, advisory rights on partnerships and a solid information right. Under the Higher Education Act, the youngest member of the tribe was introduced, namely the right of assent on the broad lines of the budget. This is still in the process of elaboration. All other rights are well known that they are not being properly used. When I outline this picture, I ask the Minister, in her opinion, about the functioning of the current system of participation rights. What is the Commission's assessment of their use? Is it optimal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u112	My apologies in advance, but it is a law and it is a crucial point. I take the liberty of disagreeing with Mr Duisenberg that the right of assent on the main points has only just begun. After all, this already works in many institutions in Dutch education. Why is that? That is because the directors have granted that right to participate. That's my problem. I find it very strange that it is a power of directors to determine how strong participation is. I am curious to see what Mr Duisenberg is looking at. Does he agree with me or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u113	This has to do with the governance model and with the participation council. We are here in The Hague setting out a broad framework for the way in which participation should be put together. If drivers would like to do something else, they can make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u114	It is therefore obvious to Mr Duisenberg that it is up to the director to determine the powers of participation. What Mr Duisenberg calls 'a broad framework of participation' is, in fact, simply a minimum level. Many powers have been laid down in the form of advisory rights. Then it is up to the driver whether or not to be so kind as to make it a right of assent. Because of that practice and because those drivers are there, we have experience. I have this experience and also the Minister, who gave that right to her participation at the Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences. So there are already a lot of experiences. Those are excellent experiences. I would therefore ask Mr Duisenberg once again how he assesses the fact that it is up to the driver to determine the power of participation which is his opponent, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u115	I'm not at all of the opinion that it's all minimal. I think it is a very good framework that is not even being fully exploited. There is a right of assent with regard to the institution plan and strategy. In my view, these are the most important points, and this is simply a right of assent. The same applies to major decisions, including the budget. I don't know what else to want. It's like some kind of addiction. I have a question about the initiatives from the sector. How does the Minister assess the implementation of all sector codes and what are the main findings of the Risbo report Public administration at educational institutions, published by Erasmus University and the University of Amsterdam in September 2015? In the previous debates on Amarantis, I spoke about directors and supervisors. Situations we are talking about are also the result of incompetence and self-expression. All codes now make demands on the skills of supervisors. If people have to do their job properly, I am curious about the state of play regarding the selection of directors and supervisors and lifelong learning. In my May 2013 motion, the Minister was called upon to work with the sectors and to work on lifelong learning, with or without a register, as Mr Bruins has already mentioned. At the time, the Minister was positive about this, but what concrete steps have been taken by the sectors and the Association of Supervisors in Education Institutions, the VTOI? And how does every sector monitor compliance with these codes? Apart from this administrative power bill, I ask the Minister what is the status of the draft law on the liability of directors and supervisors at Security and Justice. This bill went into internet consultation in 2014. When can the Chamber expect this from the government? With regard to external accountability, for example the annual report, the government agreement states that schools will be publicly accountable for the results achieved and the resources used. What is the state of play and what steps is the Minister going to take in this respect? The conclusion: it is clear that the VVD attaches great importance to sound internal supervision by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board should keep an eye on the longer term and stop drivers with megalomaniac and unrealistic plans. I expect concrete steps to be taken in this respect. Let me now turn to a few individual parts of the law and to the amendments. As I said, we support many of the Minister's proposals. However, we do not support the obligation to notify. First of all, this reporting obligation does not solve the problem; it is rather a false certainty. Secondly, the VVD believes that the roles and responsibilities of internal and external supervision should be clear. Thirdly, the Supervisory Board must be able to do its job and also do it well. That's what you have to do. It is about the right selection, training and well-arranged liability in the event of maladministration. The VVD is therefore in favour of Mr Bruins and Mr Rog's amendment which removes this obligation of notification from the law. The law on the training committee finds the VVD very skinny. If there is now one place where we can talk about the quality of education and about ambitions, it is at the level of training. In order to better position the training committees, the VVD has submitted several motions and requests in recent years, together with colleagues Rog of the CDA and Mohandis of the PvdA, for example. However, the development remains slow and the training committees remain the underprivileged child. That is why the VVD, together with the PvdA, is tabling the amendment to strengthen the training committee and make it more attractive for students and teachers to participate in it. As regards the facilitation of student directors, the VVD also wants to help students who want to devote a full-time year to a board and thereby invest in themselves and in the educational community as a whole. We have to support them. That is why, together with the CDA and the PvdA, we are tabling an amendment on tuition fees-free driving. The VVD wants to support ambitious students and ensure that they do not pay tuition fees for education that they do not receive, but still have access to the study advance. Then there is a whole bunch of other amendments. The mode of control of congealed distrust has been knocking around wildly and has triggered feverish activity on the left side of the Chamber. Last night, one amendment after another came in by e-mail. It didn't stop. Since these amendments are going to determine the final legislative proposal, I would like to make a general assessment of a number of amendments. The amendments on the right of assent of participation in housing, the lifting and merging of training courses, and the institution's tuition fees interfere with strategic and financial choices. These choices are so important for more profiling and ambition in education. In addition, participation already has the right of assent to the institution plan, the strategic plan and the main lines of the budget. First of all, let us make good use of existing legislation and regulations. Moreover, participation represents a shared interest, whereas the supervisory board can account for all the interests of the institution. I would also advise against the amendments on the appointment of students in the board of directors and on giving a decisive vote in the appointment of directors. In practice, directors are already being selected with input from participation. The decision is ultimately up to the Supervisory Board. Mr De Rog and Mr Bruins' less far-reaching amendment on an advisory staff member has the sympathy of the VVD. The appointment of a student assessor can already be done in practice. That's what we see in Groningen. I wouldn't personally recommend it to a co-determination council. Because you're running out of your own position. I'm rounding up. A top five knowledge-based economy, future-proof education with differentiation, profiling and ambition: what is needed, except targeted funding? Firstly, that is good governance, secondly, a good deal of courage to make choices for the future and thirdly, strong discussions between all those involved. However, as an educational community, you must remain agile, with clear roles and responsibilities. Education must be able to make choices for its profiling and the building of an international position that goes with it. For example, the technical universities focus on solar and online education, the UvA and the VU on joining forces of the beta faculties and Maastricht University focuses on its Knowledge As. Let us not thwart these ambitious plans from The Hague, but rather put them into their power. Let us ensure that the existing laws and rules function properly and that we do not create a Christmas tree full of rights. Let us ensure that directors involve all parties in their plans and that the Supervisory Board supervises them properly. Today's and tomorrow's goals are not to spread control, the goal is to achieve world-class education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u116	I was listening and I thought: this would be a great input from the VVD, around 1995. It's a dated story. I would ask Mr Duisenberg to listen more carefully to his own Prime Minister, Mark Rutte. He's really said a lot better things about this. Firstly, he once said: students, if you disagree with your own university, then occupy a building. Secondly, he said that those managers and administrators in the institutions must be inferior to teachers and students; they are the centre of education. A school director should be at the entrance to the school and shake hands with each student. Now I hear the story of Mr Duisenberg. He says everything's fine and we don't have to change anything. What is he doing to the drivers who have obviously made a mess of it in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u117	A good driver listens to the people in the organisation and the environment and provides support. Take the role a college plays in its region. The driver listens to the declining business and profession field. Those are things you do as a good driver. However, this does not require all kinds of new laws and regulations. It doesn't mean that you unilaterally deposit additional rights with one particular group, as the SP wants. It concerns a great many stakeholders in such an institution. A good driver takes that into account. If a driver doesn't work properly, he has to leave. That is why we also want drivers to be held liable. That's why I asked where that law is to hold people who don't do well liable. That's as ready as a whistle. Everyone has to do their job, but that doesn't mean you have to introduce rules and rules. I don't see it that way. Mr Van Dijk wants to solve that with rules and rights, but I want to focus on quality, on good work with what is already there. I think this is possible and this is the direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u118	It was just about responsibility vacation. I believe that Mr Duisenberg has been on holiday in recent years. You can see that the whole Chamber has concerns about the governance model, where the directors and supervisory boards can decide too much in their uppie. What is the VVD going to do to ensure that such a director is not involved in megalomaniac construction projects, but that he is linked to what Mr Duisenberg, like the Veerman Committee, is so committed to: education, research, the knowledge economy? Isn't that what you have to do by giving that community a voice in the composition of that administration? Mr Duisenberg says that they can do so already. The minimum proposal of colleagues is to give students and teachers a place in the application committee. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u119	I think we don't want to achieve the same thing, but we both believe in the basis for doing things with each other. Mr Van Dijk wants to achieve this by introducing new rules again. He's happy when there's rights. That's not my answer. My answer is to get to work with what is now and to make sure that the people who do the work do that work well. The observation that came back to the hearing is that, in many cases, perhaps the majority of officials working excellently and highly involved students. They all have very good conversations with their surroundings. On the basis of a number of cases where things have not gone well, we should not pretend to go wrong everywhere. According to the SP's proposals, we should set up a model in The Hague to be completely closed. From the ambitious directors and students and the companies involved, the declining field of profession, which I am speaking with, I hear that they say: please don't have any more rules, with which the SP, the PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks come. Don't do it to us! That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u120	I wonder more and more how consistent the story of the VVD is here today. I get a story with one-liners about advanced democratisation, such as the remark that more democracy leads to more conservatism. I can imagine that Mr Duisenberg is referring to the political position of the VVD itself in democratic decision-making processes, but that does not apply in general. One of the most important amendments tabled comes from Mr Duisenberg himself: on the training committee. It regulates three new voting rights. It is also a new institution, because it does not yet exist in formal participation. I very much agree with that, but I ask Mr Duisenberg whether he is not on the one hand working on a populist story to smack away democratisation, while on the other hand he is moving along with it. I think that's wise, but he's got to have the guts to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u121	There are 41 amendments, if I am correct. Mr Grashoff described the VVD amendment as important, for which he thanked. I don't think I have an inconsistent story. In recent years I have been standing here constantly to say± if there is one place where it is important for students and teachers to talk together to shape the quality of education, then it is at the level of the courses. Mr Grashoff was not always there, because he is a little shorter in the Chamber. Let that be exactly the place that is the least developed and where participation is the worst developed. In this bill, too, these are getting off very badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u122	I do not have to work out every contradiction to the bone, but I note that between Mr Duisenberg's one-liners and his nuanced story about the training that I hear now, there is a gaping gap. I can only ask one final question: is he really in favour of granting these consent rights or is this a compromise that is actually only possible because others wanted it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u123	No, again, it's about educational quality. That's the point. My whole story today is about ambition and educational quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u124	Mr. Chairman. Allow me first to address Mr Bruins of the Christian Union and congratulate him on his maiden speech and his beautiful, involved and passionate story. In it he talked about ambitions for education and he laid them where they should be, namely in the educational world itself, and not in The Hague. I can very much agree with that. I liked the words. I look forward to working with Mr Bruins. Unfortunately, the education sector has not been spared from directors and supervisors who were mainly focused on themselves, on megalomaniac real estate projects and on making money with complicated financial products. And that while the landmark, the goal of every driver or supervisor, should be: to focus on providing good education to pupils and students. All administrative action, but also control of it, should be aimed at achieving that objective. This legislative proposal should respond to directors and supervisors who are separated from that teaching practice, from the institution for which they work, by strengthening internal and external supervision. It is important that existing laws and rules are respected. I am particularly committed to emphasising the necessary educational orientation. After all, no matter how many additional rules and laws we come up with here, if there are still directors like those at the ROC Leiden who literally wrote in their mission statements that their goals were competitiveness and real estate development, then there is really something very thorough and fundamentally wrong in the educational institutions. The CDA looks kindly at this bill. For example, a number of rights, understandable, are granted to internal and external supervisors. Ultimately, the CDA assumes that those supervisors and directors can also be held liable if they fail. I ask the Minister once again; she writes about this. There are, however, two elements which my group is rather upset about and which can reverse our positive attitude towards this bill, our appreciation. Firstly, this is the obligation to notify laid down in this bill and, secondly, that the cartload of amendments increasing the control of students and pupils. If we are not careful, they will lead to some sort of student self-government. I'm gonna go into the duty of reporting. Both the Supervisory Board and the Inspection Board have an important role to play in monitoring governance in the performance of its tasks and in achieving the educational objectives. If there is a reasonable suspicion of maladministration, the Supervisory Board should examine it. Of course, the Council must also intervene if it sees that something is indeed wrong. Of course, the Supervisory Board may also inform the inspection if it deems it necessary. However, a reporting obligation undermines the independent responsibility of the Supervisory Board. After answering its questions, the CDA is not yet convinced of the need for this obligation to notify. We think that this is rather a challenge for the Minister when it comes to directing her own education inspection. After all, both Amarantis and Ibn Ghaldoun, as well as Aloysius College, as well as ROC Leiden had many signals and abuses or problems already known at the inspection. That was without the duty of reporting. Yet these schools fell over and did not intervene in the inspection earlier. Therefore, the CDA does not see the solution offered by this reporting obligation. For my group, it is crucial that it be removed from the legislative proposal. To this end, we have tabled an amendment together with the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u125	I have an enlightening question. Mr Rog actually says that the inspection should do that work. But then why do we have supervisory boards? I have my ideas about that, too. Maybe we could do without a guess of supervision. However, the Minister says: if they are there, give them a duty to report on maladministration or suspicion of malpractice. What if they didn't? Would Mr Rog be okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u126	It is nice what Mr Van Dijk is doing. It's a clever thing. If the supervisory boards don't report it, the inspection should. But for the sake of clarity, I want that supervisory board itself to have that position and intervene itself. By the way, there are two possibilities if that supervisory board does not do so. The first is that there are signals coming to the inspection. We can do that now. This has also happened in the cases I have just mentioned. Then, as far as I'm concerned, the inspection must intervene. Secondly, as a result of the misery at Amarantis, we have had debates with the Minister and we have given this Minister an extremely far-reaching power of direction. I fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u127	In my view, Mr Rog and I agree that supervisory boards have been far too passive in the past. We've seen all kinds of abuses. Those supervisory boards were nowhere to be seen. I see this as an attempt by the Minister to wake them up, as it were, to say: if you see abuses, go to work. Maybe this is unnecessary from today on. Maybe those supervisory boards all say they're gonna do that. I think Mr Rog wants that, too. Surely this obligation to notify is nothing more than an emergency brake, a last resort that is not even necessary? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u128	What is wrong with it is that it has actually made the supervisory board redundant. I don't think so. I think it is important that the Supervisory Board is on top of it, especially with regard to education. The Board should also keep the Executive Board on top of that. I want to maintain that. Let me be honest with you about what I think is behind this question: the Socialist Party simply wants to get rid of these supervisory councils. I therefore disagree with Mr Van Dijk. I do not want that because I believe that the supervisory boards can play an important role in education. I'd like to maintain that. In addition to the obligation to report, we have the cartload of democratisation proposals. The academic community has quite rightly denounced the driven-out sense of efficiency of directors. Now parties such as D66, GroenLinks and the SP seem to have fallen into the grip of completely democratisationist thinking. This is not a solution, but rather a source of new problems, as my group fears. Students and students have rights, of course, but also duties. School education or college isn't always funny. Sometimes you have to do things you don't want to do. So you can't influence it. After all, students follow education to learn something and not to run the tent. It is their teachers, their teachers who are responsible for providing good education and for a coherent curriculum. They are trained to do so. They are the professionals and not the students. Their influence could even lead to a reduction in quality or a reduction in coherence, and that is something we want to avoid. This could be a downside to the mad democratisation thinking that has been expressed here by a number of parties. On the other hand, when some amendments are adopted, directors and supervisors cannot carry out their tasks or responsibilities in a roll-call manner or charge students with responsibilities that nobody really needs, not even the students themselves. I would remind you that, for example, in the student council elections at the UvA, 81% of students stayed at home or at best were in the college boards. So they weren't even interested in voting. We will therefore not support most of these proposals. Moreover, I would like to point out that many of the students' existing rights are not yet fully used or are not yet fully used. Of many of the proposals contained in this bill, we should first look at how they work out, before going much further. Doesn't the CDA want to change anything? Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u129	I suspect that on the list that Mr Rog is about to read out of things that the CDA wants to change, the right of assent on the main lines of the budget does not exist. That's what I want to talk to him about. Apart from all the major incidents that are rightly mentioned here, Amarantis, ROC Leiden, perhaps one more problem concerns us: we spend EUR 32 billion per year on education here, and we have a strong feeling that it does not always end up in the right place, namely in the classroom. That is where Mr Rog and I find each other all the time. My group is looking for a way to ensure that more money is put in the right place. I said in my speech that this can be done in two ways. You can have ear tags and you can strengthen the counter-force. The amendments relating to the right of assent on the main lines of the budget are an attempt to organise counter-force and to ensure that there is a real debate on the allocation of resources. My question to Mr Rog is not so much as if he agrees, because we know that he does not agree. Unless, now that I'm saying this, he suddenly changes his mind. My question is: how do we proceed? Are we going to continue to have this debate here, every time that money for new teachers is not in the right place again? Or does Mr. Rog have an alternative? What is his alternative in order to prevent money intended for education from getting there or not getting there sufficiently?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u130	I know Mr Van Meenen as someone who, like me, regularly talks about trust in education. At the same time, Mr Van Meenen now appears to be someone who is trying to regulate everything from above, centrally close to laws and rules. He's like a socialist!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u131	Is that a swear word?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u132	It's a fix. If Mr Van Meenen knows that there are all kinds of rights, for example the right to consent to the institution plan, the vision, the direction, which we have not even experimented with yet, which has not even been implemented, then I do not understand why he wants to make these poor schoolchildren jointly guilty of an institution's multiannual financial policy. Mr Van Meenen, this does not make reality any better. You are saddled with students who have already done so with something they do not need. They want a vision, a direction, but they are not about the exact financial implications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u133	I have heard clear answers to questions from Mr Rog. There's a lot of stuff being brought in. That I would be a socialist and that I would like to add countless additional rules to education. Of course, that all sounds very nice, but let's be honest: there are rules about participation. There is a rule on the budget that states that co-decision councils have advisory rights. That is the minimum level that we have legally established. My proposal is not another rule or a new rule. My proposal is merely to raise that right of advice to an institution law, and I propose this with one objective, namely to ensure that the money is put in the right place. It is not just the pupils or the students, Mr Rog, who make a caricature of it; it is also the teachers who occupy half the participation councils. It is the parents, who are also involved in schools and who are given a right to talk about the destination of that money. Isn't that the way? If not, what is the CDA's way of making sure that the money for education gets more into the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u134	I do not support this proposal. I do not think this gives students, students and parents a better feeling about the influence on school policy. I've never heard of it before, when I visit several schools and institutions every week. I'm not familiar with this request. Mr Van Meenen asks me what I do want. I told him what I wanted, namely that we should highlight more clearly what is happening with the money. I do not understand that, in times of crisis, EUR 500 million has been transferred to schools in basic education, with the warmest regards of D66, without any responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u135	Now you're luring Mr. Van Meenen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u136	I'm glad you see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u137	One more comment and then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u138	I just can't get an answer. In fact, I have to summarize it as follows. Mr Rog loves to be here almost every week to tell us that the money that is not regulated by the CDA but by D66 does not end up in the right place in many schools. That's a fixed number of him. He is almost opposed to seeing that it might be better in schools if the people for whom that money is intended, the parents, the teachers, the students and the students in higher education get something to say about it. I don't hear any reasonable alternatives. It seems that Mr Rog is seeking to label every euro that goes to education from The Hague: intended for this purpose, with the greetings of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u139	You've made your point. I suggest that Mr Rog proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What does the CDA want to change? That's where I left off. In the debate on the strategic agenda, I have already said that I would like to look at the way in which the best universities in the world organise their education and organisation. I therefore suggested limiting choice and tailor-made work and focusing on seminars and tutorials, for example. Small-scale education, just like at the top universities of Oxford and Cambridge. Unfortunately, I didn't get a majority for that at the time. In this legislative proposal, together with the Christian Union, I would like to strengthen the position of teachers and professors. We also look at these top universities with a slanted eye, where there is much more influence of professors on the appointment of the board and the direction of the university. We are doing this in a way that fits in with the system we currently have in the Netherlands. We are also in favour of strengthening the position of the Education Committee, the place where teachers and students talk about daily education. That's what the CDA is about. We are not concerned with the exact calculations in the multiannual budget on the issues to which the money is to be spent. We therefore support the amendment of the VVD and the PvdA. The CDA has also previously called for attention to be paid to the needlessly dropping of credits. We will therefore support the amendment by SP and PvdA, which calls for an immediate end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u141	When I hear this, I don't think I should say anything, because maybe all the proposals from the PvdA will be discussed and all of them will be supported by the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u142	I will mention one more PvdA proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u143	Let's get back to the first point. Thank you for your support on the training committees. Last year, a motion was tabled during the debate in May 2015 "We now call it the "Virgin House debate" "on more participation." That motion was adopted at that time, with no support from the CDA. I would point out that this motion has now been worked out in an amendment. That amendment gives students and teachers the right to vote at the level of training. That is therefore a fundamental proposal. I hope that Mr Rog realises that it is a question of increasing the right of assent to the level of education. So he's definitely in favour of consent. That's what he's gonna poke for. I would like to receive a response from him on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u144	May I say that I find this a wonderful interruption? I won't be faint. I am not going to reconsider my support for this proposal. Of course, I've thought this through. In my opinion, I have often stressed in debates the value of this training committee, the value of the discussion within the training. At the same time, I do not want students to have everything to say about the policies of the university, the school or higher education institution. On this very point, I intended to meet Mr Mohandis, but I understand that he is trying to cast doubt on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u145	No. I am very grateful to Mr Rog. My point is more that last year we had a debate in which I was questioned by Mr Rog in an interrupting debate about why I came up with such a fundamental plan to give training committees the right of assent, which they do not now have. I welcome this support. I can see that moving towards more participation and more participation is a path that we are all about to embark on. I hope that I can count on the support of Mr Rog for all the other plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u146	Of course, we'll lose each other again very quickly. In fact, I limited it to what was also my introductory shot in my support of this far-reaching amendment from the PvdA and the VVD to that training committee. Now a very important point. Now that students are confronted with this horrible loan, it is important that students with a full-time management year can actually manage tuition fees free of charge. The CDA has raised this point before and is happy to table an amendment together with VVD and PvdA to deal with it, especially at this difficult time. Today we are discussing an important legislative proposal, which comes from and responds to major abuses that have plagued our education in recent years. However, the CDA wants to remain vigilant. We don't want to simply take over the demands of the Virgin House residents. We also do not want symbolic measures that will ultimately lead to cynicism, despair and frustration. We do not want to go to an educational system in which tasks, roles and responsibilities run together, which will make schools and institutions unmanageable. Can the Minister state how she looks at the far-reaching proposals of the House of Representatives on this issue? The CDA believes that we, as legislators too, should focus on the quality of education. This does not necessarily mean granting as many additional rights and influence as possible to pupils and students. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u147	Thank you. Mr Grashoff has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u148	In the presentation by Mr Rog of what he was going to support, I did not hear anything about the CDA's possible support for my amendment that regulates the faculty council's right to consent to the provision of binding study advice. I would remind you of the unfortunate progress of a motion of mine on 21 May 2015, the motion in which the government was asked to remove the obligation to give binding study advice. At that time, I was pleased to note that the CDA supported them. Does Mr Rog agree with me that it may be wise to fill in that obligation in such a way that it is at least the subject of a strong discussion within the educational institution itself, so that there can be de facto real discussion about usefulness and necessity? Does he recognise that the amendment I have tabled to that effect can make a useful contribution to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u149	Look, we got a new chairman. As has been said, we have seen a cartload of left-wing amendments passing by. I have to go through this amendment in detail. In any case, I can say that the CDA has said in previous debates and still believes that the binding study opinion should be over from the second year of study. Once again, we have made this link with Mr Grashoff's lending system, at least from his political leader. That's where I'm standing. If Mr Grashoff can help me with what he is doing now with regard to the BSA, then I am highly recommended to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u150	I am pleased that Mr Rog makes some distinction in what he described as 'a pile of left-wing amendments'. I'm gonna catch him with left-wing sympathies again, if he thinks this through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u151	I am done with my contribution, but it has called for so much that I will stand still, if that is all right with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u152	Mr Van Meenen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u153	I have not heard Mr Rog about the proposal for a student assessor. A motion was tabled at the time by Mrs Jadnansing and myself. That motion was also supported by the CDA. This is how it works. It is not an obligation to do so; it is an option. Participation can also take other decisions. Other structures can be chosen. What is Mr Rog's position on that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u154	I don't see why we should choose a student assessor now. I do not think that we really give students the feeling that they have more to say about their education. I rather believe that this is a recipe for failure and frustration. If that student assessor is there, you have a chance that he'll be sealed up, that he won't achieve anything, or that he won't be able to speak on behalf of the grassroots. I am extremely afraid that things will go wrong. So Mr Van Meenen cannot count on my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u155	That is quite remarkable, because the CDA has supported the motion in which this is requested and which is now being worked out. I don't understand. Maybe the Rog can explain what's been going on in him since a few weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u156	Here I am avenged that I stand behind this cathedral with a number of papers and not with the voting list of this motion. I cannot honestly imagine voting in favour of a student assessor. I think it would be helpful if I could correct that later, if I could have it confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u157	Mr. Chairman. We are here today to talk about the Law strengthening administrative education institutions. In the title of that law there is actually a piece of the discussion already decided. Is this about the power of government, or does the legislator actually mean the power of government, of directors, or is it about the total administrative power of the entire administrative system in education? "Control power" could then be defined as the quality with which that governance is carried out. We choose that last definition. This legislative proposal should not be about positioning one or the other in relation to another, but it should ultimately be about the best quality governance for educational institutions as a whole. It's about better governance. It is also a question of reversing the idea of profitability, the far-reaching economics that has been implemented in education, and of returning to a governance based on values. Really involving students and teachers in their education is an essential part of this. This is best served by the quality of the administration, in our firm conviction. Inclusiveness of administrative decisions as such is, in my group's opinion, an intrinsic value. Apart from its intrinsic value, the checks-and-balances, through the substantive debate, by trying to convince each other of one position or another, strengthen the quality of the administration. I have therefore been shocked to hear Mr Duisenberg's comments that it leads to conservatism. I do not see that connection in any way. I see that it can indeed contribute, if properly implemented and with the right attitude, to a quality governance in which arguments are exchanged in a good way. I cannot imagine that Mr Duisenberg, too, is going to support this. I am glad to see him walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u158	That's almost baiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u159	Mr Grashoff says that inclusiveness is an intrinsic value. Mr Grashoff must admit that today he is trying to enforce something that should be intrinsically in it by means of laws from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u160	This bill is precisely a legislative proposal that does not force it, but that lays down rules to ensure that the arguments in the educational institutions are properly played. Because of the way in which we are organising the debate here, there can at some point be a bunch of amendments. Yeah, that's right. Are all these amendments all right? Are there no amendments that exclude each other? That is also a consideration for my group; perhaps because not all of the amendments from GroenLinks come or are co-signed by it. The point is that we are not trying to close the education system here, but rather to open up the education system so that it can deal with its own issues in a good way and in its own right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u161	It's gonna get ripped off, isn't it? There are amendments here that are going to ensure that where first could be played freely, now that the referee who is called 'controlling' can blow a whistle at any time and stop the game. That's what's happening here. It's just being slammed here, and that's going to lead to standstill, to conservatism. That's the conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u162	That is the same as saying that the functioning of this Parliament leads to conservatism and standstill! That's bullshit. It is about the quality and the commitment that is being made there. Participation in educational institutions is not made up of a bunch of obstructors who are going to call out 'no' to something. I cannot imagine anything about this idea of participation in the university community. I personally have not experienced it as much, although I have been very active in that area. It was always about arguments and it is still about arguments. If you want to take participation seriously, there must also be a possibility that arguments must be taken seriously somewhere, and cannot simply be ignored by the power of government. Only then will you get the substantive debate sharp. There are many years of dissatisfaction with the quality of education, particularly in universities, partly in colleges and partly in other sectors of education. There is discontent about the quality of education for which too little attention was paid to central government. Boarding has a bad track record when it comes to involvement in the quality of education. This is one of the important checks-and-balances that could be re-established along this road. Teachers and students were dissatisfied with the quality, they were uncertain about the uncertain contracts and they were dissatisfied with the perverse returns in the funding structure and the way their boards handled it. They were most dissatisfied with the fact that their arguments are not being heard and put aside with an arrogance that assumes that the university is the directors rather than the directors of the university. That's caused some trouble. In this sense, actions such as those at the Virgin House have worked as a catalyst in the discussion. The discussion was already there. Mr Van Meenen has rightly pointed that out. That discussion was with us and certainly with D66. We can now have this discussion in a better way than in the past. The dissatisfaction and events at the University of Amsterdam are, in our group's opinion, a symbol of a greater sense of discontent in society. Groups of citizens often feel that they are not being heard by institutions that are supposed to work for them, such as health care institutions, housing corporations and educational institutions. Citizens feel that they have little influence there and that drivers have grown away from their base, from the people for whom they do it. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect on this. Does she agree that this is an important basis for strengthening the democratisation of educational institutions? GroenLinks is based on a model of participation and not on a model of student self-government as some in this Chamber would like to believe. That fits so nicely in the image that you have of a party. Our party sees a model with a board of directors, a supervisory board and a very strong participation. That's a model we can use to get out of our way. We do not have to throw the current model entirely on the scrap heap to replace it with an ultimate mini-democracy. This would be detrimental to the social function and the social embedding of educational institutions, because they are not alone in the world. In this legislative proposal, we have sought points of departure in order to improve it, so that we can actually take steps in that direction. We must note that the legislative proposal submitted to us by the Minister is initially a very small step in the right direction. However, as far as our party is concerned, this is too small a step in the right direction. Without adjustments, this bill would most probably not be able to count on the support of GroenLinks, because we have nothing on windowdressing. Luckily, there's plenty for it. One calls it a collector's bowl and the other a set of sensible things that we could choose from together. In any case, a firm amendment of the law is needed. In doing so, a dilemma becomes visible about structure and culture. During this debate, people wondered whether the interest over the full breadth of teachers and students is sufficient. I must say that this is not always the case. I, too, find that a turnout rate for student councils elections of 20 is too low. I think of it as a vicious circle. The people are not sufficiently interested in participation which is insufficient. People do not bother to interfere through voting rights or through a more active commitment with something that ultimately has too little impact. What we could do is to help this movement of increased self-awareness among teachers and students with some sensible structural changes. In this way, we bring the matter in line with what we want: students who are not cookies in a factory, but actually co-identifying and co-acting factors in the educational community. In this sense, we have noticed that the Minister has not seized the opportunity to incorporate directly into the legislative proposal a number of statements made by the Chamber that were already there. This is to a large extent true of the training committee. At that point, there was a broad-based motion. My group also co-signed it. That motion should have just been incorporated into this bill. I regret that this has not happened. There is now an important amendment before us, fortunately on the part of both committee groups. I am talking to Mr Duisenburg today, but I very much respect that he has drawn up an amendment with Mr Mohandis which regulates the basic position of training committees in a way that is good for us. We will wholeheartedly support that amendment. I would like to share it with you, but if we saw an extra tree with it, then we don't have to. I am now looking at Mr Mohandis: it has taken hold of us. The training committee is all the more relevant because it occupies a very important position in the pyramid of participation. The first interest you can expect from students, students and teachers is at the level of the programme. If at that level the discussion is conducted in a lively and correct way, you can also expect it to sound in the other layers, towards faculties and institution board. Depending on the level of education, the institution is organized differently. It remains an aggregation of training courses. If the culture of real co-thinking can develop there, then participation in the other layers will also function better and more thought will be given to it. That is by far not the club of counterparts who say 'no', as Mr Duisenberg suggested. I am therefore very pleased with the amendment on the training committee. Information is a basic condition for all control and control of power. It is not for nothing that we in this House have salient debates about the way in which information and information law is handled in this Parliament. I think we had such a debate yesterday. There is a lot of fuss about providing information and participation bodies in education. There's a lot of jabbering about that. It would be wise, once and for all, to regulate in the law that information is organised in such a way that participation can put its energy into thinking and taking part in decision-making and not in constantly compromising the level of information. We have tabled an amendment which regulates this right of information. My group is opposed to the binding study opinion. We have never had any positive impact on students or on the quality of education. We are not getting our hands on this, but it would be an important point of profit if that binding study advice were to be the subject of discussion within the institution itself. We would not have to impose anything. Moreover, the institution can discuss this at a sensible level. We are thinking of the faculty level, not the level of the programme but one level above it. At that level, you can seriously discuss the questions why you do that, how you do that, how you set the bar and how you set the quality of education in such a way that you can look people in the eye if you already give a binding study advice. It's also about how you might do it differently. It could also be more in the direction of an opinion. That is equally effective and perhaps more effective, but at least it is more humane. That is why we would very much like to have tabled an amendment to bring it under the right of assent at faculty level. Well, at least you'll have the discussion at the right level. Then there is the involvement of participation in administrative appointments. We have seen Mr Mohandis and Mr Van Meenen's amendment on composite application committees. We believe that this is a sensible amendment which we will also support. But we do think it's half work. If you use this means, the logical consequence is that you ask the participation council to agree to the final appointment. Those two things are mutually reinforcing. If you only ask for permission, but not in the process, it can have a wonderful effect at the end of the process that is frustrating. Exactly a combination of those two elements can be a reinforcement. I would like to appeal to the authors of the amendment on the application committee to reconsider this and draw the consequence that there should also be a right of assent. Ending or merging training is an important decision that has already produced a lot of discussion here. That merging or ending must of course be possible, but it is a decision that has a huge impact on people who study and work there, people who have a job there as teachers. This means that there is a very heavy obligation of motivation. It should not simply be said that, given the overall efficiency of our institution, it is not a good thing, so we will simply cancel the training. There should also be discussion about alternatives. If you don't want to cancel an education, you can combine it in a sensible way. You can make arrangements with other educational institutions. We want to strengthen this debate by giving the right of assent at the central level of assent. This could prevent a lot of discussion here in Parliament about the abolition of training, because the educational institution itself can properly take responsibility. If a responsible decision is taken, then we do not need to talk about it here anymore. More people have already said something about reporting. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also strongly doubts the desirability of reporting. At first, it seems logical. The reporting obligation could contribute to good governance of the educational institution, but the Council of State rightly makes very critical comments. I may charge a little bit, but in practice a mechanism can be created that is counterproductive. De facto, the responsibility of the supervisory board of the educational institution is weakened. Once the inspection has been reported, their actions are implicitly legitimised. "We reported it anyway to the education inspector and he hasn't made a problem of it, so it's probably good. We were allowed to assume that it was good." No, the Supervisory Board is and will remain responsible. I think we agree that this is the case. The council can't escape that. We refer to the opinion of the Council of State in such a way that this is not wise. You're confusing things you shouldn't be confusing. There are plenty of opportunities for the education inspection or for the minister to obtain the necessary information. I would very much like to wait for the Minister's answer, but our group has serious doubts as to whether this is a good idea. We are seriously considering supporting the amendment to this point of CDA, SGP and another group of people I have just forgotten which one. There are still two positive points. My group thinks it wise that there should be one point of dispute instead of two. This prevents confusion and confusion. It is also pleasant that the right to training facilities and the settlement of disputes are now regulated by law. That is a step forward. Participation bodies are not dependent on opponents in a dispute to defend their interests. That is a step forward. In conclusion. I have already indicated that I think the legislative proposal is too small a step in the right direction. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would not be the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance if it did not draw the conclusion that it was not possible to agree to a small step in the right direction. I do see some promising amendments that are before us. In advance, the Mohandis/Duisenberg amendment on the training committee has our warm support. This could have enough impact to get us to cross the line on the bill. I hope that in the course of this debate we will be able to achieve increased participation and that we will choose from the many options that lie ahead the sensible options. I have some hope that in the end there will be a proposal that can actually promote participation in a good and balanced way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u163	Mr. Chairman. Today is the debate on the power of administration, the debate that was long awaited, even though it was only because last year, in all kinds of debates on participation and participation, this law was always referred to by the Minister. As far as we are concerned, today we are not strengthening the power of government, but the power of administration of students and teachers. This bill is a step in the right direction, but it does not go far enough for me. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, there is an opportunity here to regulate the participation of students and teachers on many fronts. This bill would certainly have been more ambitious. I have already referred to the hearing in an interruptive debate and what has come out of it. We took part in that hearing on my initiative. I have, in all honesty, kept the impression that all student representatives advocated the further strengthening of participation and came up with realistic proposals for this, whereas representatives of institutions were particularly in favour of it. "There could be anything and let's not make it too complicated." That does not at all make me hopeful that it is always well arranged. The only thing they came up with was the issue of reporting obligations. Mr Rog and Mr Bruins have tabled an amendment on this. That was the only point they came up with. Yeah, that was tricky! "Yeah," I thought, "Was that it, then, are we done?" The hearing merely convinced me that we really need to do something about the structure. We should not just say: yes, it is a matter of culture and then it will be fine. Changing the structure can also push culture in the right direction. Right now we have a chance, because there's a law ahead of us to do something about that structure. My analysis of the whole subject of participation and participation has long been that there can always be the feeling that acceptance is something that governing unilaterally organises. That's not support. Contradiction is not an obligation, but it must be properly arranged when it is necessary. The Labour Party wants students and teachers to be able to participate and decide on their own education. This cabinet has taken an important step by giving the right of assent to participation on the broad lines of the budget. I'll definitely keep the VVD on that deal. This allows students to determine how universities and colleges spend their money. We're also gonna see how this works out. But it's not finished. In 1997 I was 12 years old at that time the WUB was changed into the MUB. The University Administrative Reform Act was transformed into the Modernisation University Administrative Organisation Act. Beautiful, that's what it sounded like then. There was more room for drivers, and that's modern. And the participation may bite a little less; that is also modern. Let me say first of all that I am not in favour of full self-government by students, because that is the label that is trying to put on the right-hand side of proposals that have been made and that has been well thought out. Divorced roles must be and remain, but this should never be used as an argument to leave the right of consent for what it is. That's what I call ambitionless. In the note entitled Reconciliation at the MUB, from 2001 of the ISO, you can see a nice graph showing a relationship between the turnout at elections for participation and a decrease in that turnout after 1997. It's not super-scientifically substantiated, but it's an interesting graph that says a lot about the trend that was used back then. And the discussion about participation never came to a halt at that time either. There's always been talk about how the checks-and-balances are going. Is it not time to take a good look at whether it still offers sufficient instruments for participation? Is the tool kit complete? Is it no longer necessary to act? I call a hammer for nailing, a screwdriver for screwing. Good governance works best in case of real contradiction. If the driver sees his participation as a tick-off list or as a bump instead of as a partner to gain broad support for choices made, that participation should develop from barking to biting. The Maagdenhuis debate has accelerated this, although we have been talking in the Chamber for some time about the way in which the participatory model is put together. Mr Van Meenen has already referred to this. It opens up a lot of discussion, including in society, and rightly so. We have made various proposals, with different parties. I see Mr Van Dijk is trying to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u164	Then I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u165	Before we go into these proposals, it is indeed a good idea to establish something. Mr Mohandis referred to the modernisation of that university organization, to the infamous MUB made by Purple in the 1990s under the leadership of Jo Ritzen of the Labour Party. I've made a lot of proposals to make things right out of that law. The co-determination was then eroded. Do I understand from the words of Mr Mohandis that his party is actually saying that the law of that time was not good, that at the time there was too much erosion of participation and that we are going to correct that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u166	The direction to better separate the roles, I endorse. But no new law brings everything to a standstill. At the time when the law is the law, we are always obliged to look at the state of participation. I was just about to go into the proposals I make. It's always a process where you have to look at how the participation is arranged, how the right of consent works. However, it is not my plea to go all the way back to the WUB. I'm just saying I see a connection with the turnout in elections. We just need to establish that with each other. There was also a very different spirit of time in 1997. We're already in 2016. So it's been a while. However, it does not encourage us to stop thinking about measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u167	Mr Mohandis is talking a bit about it. There is nothing wrong with saying now almost twenty years later: we did not do that well then, we left things too far behind then, drivers have become too powerful with their supervisory councils, and we are now going to see how we can fix that mistake back then. Has Mr Mohandis the courage to simply acknowledge that? In fact, I can see that from his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u168	That's your own conclusion. I am just saying that a stricter separation of liability, a better division of roles, is a good direction. But that does not prevent us from thinking about how the right of assent is regulated. How do we deal with participation, how do we deal with the position of the training committees? At a time when a law is being amended, I will always keep it under review to ensure that decisions are taken together. I will continue my speech. In recent times, I have worked with the ISO and the LSVB in particular, I say it well, otherwise I will have to give the Minister a euro; she knows what it is about and various groups of different proposals. I worked with the SP, D66 and GroenLinks groups, but also with those of the VVD on the subject of the training committees and with those of the CDA on the issue of free tuition. Many colleagues have already referred to these measures. As the last speaker, I will not go all the way through them, because we have heard a lot about them. Everyone has taken note of the proposal to raise the training committees to full participation. Excuse me, Mr Bertema will speak after me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u169	And Mr. Bishop, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u170	Excuse me, I don't have the list of speakers in mind. I certainly don't rule him out. The PvdA therefore also believes that decision-making should take place at the level of education. That is why I tabled a motion last year, which was adopted by the Chamber. I am also very pleased that, unlike last year, the VVD is also making that proposal, so that we can really take a step forward. It is a fundamental proposal, it is a fundamental change when it comes to participation at educational level. As far as I'm concerned, that step has been taken. For example, an important proposal from the Labour Party and other political groups seems to have been cashed. It also fits well with the trend of more trust. We have had the whole discussion about institution accreditation and internal quality management. There have been many fine words about training committees, but the pilot institution accreditation, as we would have liked, could never have taken place without this step. After all, talking about a strong training committee is not enough. I'm here to talk about the board appointments. Mr Van Meenen has already explained it a bit. The same applies to Mr Grashoff. I'd like to put it this way. I'd like it to be a nice step and a change if we could stop the discussion about naming a board in a back room. How can we ensure that students and teachers are included in the process and become co-responsible in an application committee with a fifty-fifty approach? I refer to the explanatory statement to the amendment. How can we ensure that they are involved in the question of who will be the boss of a college or university? I think we can take that step together in this house. In doing so, we leave behind the fact that an administrative appointment is something of a supervisory authority only. It also solves another problem. We have discussed the lack of contact between supervisory authorities and co-determination in response to many reports. So let this be a way of bringing together supervisors and co-determination, because they can jointly make a binding nomination through an application procedure. I would like to underline that. So it's not advice and "choose, supervisor." No, that advice should be taken into account, which makes it not only a right of consent after consultation. It's not "you can choose, yes or no," but it's "we're gonna get the best man or woman to run this institution" together. Mr. Chairman. I see there are colleagues who want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u171	I don't see it yet. If people want to interrupt, they report to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u172	Mr Van Dijk, are you reporting or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u173	I can see him dancing around. He's reporting for duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u174	Mr Mohandis is working on the subject of directors' appointments. I want to ask a question about that, but I waited neatly for him to finish that block. I'm not sure that's already the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u175	I would ask Mr Mohandis to leave the order to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u176	Mr. Chairman. I'll be sure to. Who would I be to dare doubt that you have the order. I would like to add another argument to the proposal. When others say that the division of roles is not clear, that it is not a task of participation to use such a fifty-fifty approach in the application committee to determine who will become a director, I say: it is already happening in the care. The law states that client councils can nominate a board member. The Client Council therefore nominates a board member. I would also like to point out that there is much that can be done in the public sector when it comes to the question of how far we dare to go, including as a Chamber, to give a voice to participation in education and to involve it in a transparent procedure for the appointment of a director. On that application committee are people of participation and people nominated by the Supervisory Board. That's how you decide who's gonna be the driver. So much for this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u177	Now Mr Van Dijk is reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u178	That's right. This is, of course, a central point in the discussion. How do we ensure that drivers are no longer parachuted from a supervisory board, but that those directors are actually carried by the school or university? Mr Mohandis says: let us then appoint the application committee fifty-fifty. I admit immediately that this is a step forward. But what if the participation council then says: we do not actually agree with this nomination of the application committee? Is it not quite logical that the co-determination council should also have a voice and be able to say that it wants to see something else? Isn't that the democracy we're looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u179	Let me say first of all that I am not responsible for opposing the right of assent. However, I have been looking for a plan to prevent it from being merely saying yes or no afterwards, especially in matters such as the appointment of a director. I think it would be better if the supervisory board and the co-determination council were to be involved as much as possible. That process may have the same influence. There's a chance you won't get out because of the fifty-fifty approach, but I'm assuming the right conversation and trust. You can come to something beautiful together and recite the driver. I think that is much more creative and feasible in this house than a flat right of assent on the appointment of directors. I do not think that is creative enough, although in principle I am not very negative about it. I do, of course, have a proposal of my own, otherwise I would not be defending it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u180	We've all heard that clearly. The PvdA is therefore not against the right of consent to the management of an institution. That's very nice. I would say: just vote in favour of the proposal from GroenLinks and SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u181	I like my proposal better. I just tried to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u182	I'd say "and-and." That's the best part. In your other example, the Client Council can recommend one driver in the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u183	That's where the difference lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u184	Of course, that is another variant than the application committee. Do we also have a proposal for this? I find that interesting for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u185	I have made a proposal, but I have tried to confine myself to my proposals. I have also watched how this house works in terms of majorities, and perhaps I am always working on it. There is still a long way to go until the votes. I gave this example because the Client Council makes a binding nomination for a driver. I find this binding aspect interesting in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u186	I see an increasing mix of responsibilities. I will come back to that in my contribution. Should we not take a critical look at Mr Mohandis' example of care and ask ourselves whether we have managed this properly? No one fights that a driver needs support in an organization. That's what you need to organize, and that's what you need to provide input for. Why should that be a binding nomination? Then surely such a council or any authority will sit on the seat of the ultimate authority? That is the mixture of functions and responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u187	I am trying to understand your point, but the purpose of this proposal is precisely not to mix those roles. I would not dare! I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The proposal concerns the application committee. On the one hand, the supervisor can make a nomination for the application committee and on the other hand, the co-determination members are part of the application committee. I think that is a much more beautiful proposal because it allows the participation and supervisory authority to take a step together on the question of who controls the university or college. I therefore do not fully agree with the argument that the weather is a mixture of. It's been a little longer, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u188	By allowing participation to take such a position, you formally make it the co-employer of the appointed director. However, the appointed director is responsible for his personnel policy as an employer. That is typically the mixture of functions that you have to stay far away from, to prevent everyone from playing a ball when things go wrong and nobody is responsible. I therefore suggest to Mr Mohandis that he reconsider this and withdraw the proposal. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u189	I will not do the latter, because the proposal is precisely intended to give participation a vote through the application committee. The supervisor's got it, too. Both have so many seats that they have to agree. That is what I think is a sound way of decision-making and a strengthening of those roles. Something's gonna move. I think that is a positive direction. Mr. Chairman. I'm here to talk about facilitation. A lot has been said about that. I have deliberately spent a little more time thinking about the more fundamental points. Moreover, these are not less fundamental, but they have been referred to by colleagues on a number of occasions. So now we are talking about facilitation: a better anchoring of support for participation. There is an amendment from my group on that point. There has already been talk of the obligation to provide information. Mr Grashoff has explained what this means. Of course, we wholeheartedly support it as a co-sponsor. This brings me to the issue of consultation between participation and the supervisory board. I just indicated why the board appointments help to strengthen that consultation. I have an amendment which I, together with Mr Grashoff, intend to regulate better in the law in the interests of the Minister. That is that the consultation between supervisor and participation takes place at least twice a year, without the presence of the board of directors. The latter should be explicitly incorporated into the law. It is necessary because participation over everything that is experienced must be able to speak openly with the supervisor. The supervisors should be much more active in welcoming that they are having this conversation and should say to the board: let us talk to the students and lecturers for a moment. I think that's a healthy culture. This amendment strengthens that culture. I've come to the point of running tuition free. Colleagues Rog and Duisenberg have said nice things about this. I would stress that it is one of the things that I am very much in favour of as a starting Member of Parliament. In fact, I think it is essential that students who are very consciously engaged in doing a year of management, in addition to their studies, should only be exempted if they are unsubscribe. I've been there myself. I said I'd stay in the register and pay tuition. Then you can also make use of the facilities, such as the public transport card, study funding, loan, supplementary grants and so on. I think it is a good thing that we are taking this step, because the students who consciously do more besides their studies deserve all the support in this house. We support the point of theassessor. I can't explain it any better than my colleague Van Meenen did. There was an interruption debate between Mr Rog and Van Meenen on whether or not the Jadnansing/Van Meenen motion was supported by the CDA. The motion was adopted with the support of the CDA. Or there would be something wrong with the Acts, but that certainly does not seem to me to be the case. It is true that we have done everything in our power to insert the motion into an amendment. So no obligation; I can reassure everyone who was on that tour. Let us create and promote the legal possibility, because it is precisely for the exchange of information that it can certainly help. If I were a director in education, I'd just like a move like that. I have made several proposals to the Chamber on the right of assent to know about tuition fees. With Mr Rog, I have also made proposals on the transparency of institution tuition fees and the maximum amount of institutional tuition fees. Now I'm taking it one step further, I realize that like no other. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to make a statement on this matter. Is it a cost-covering rate or a commercial rate to cover other items? In my opinion, the institutional rate is never meant for this, the Minister has said so in an earlier education debate and has adopted motions for resolutions on this matter from me. That is why I think this step is fundamental, but necessary in order to have an argument so that we can have a healthy discussion about institutional tuition fees. As regards the right of assent to the lifting and merging of training and housing, I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen, who has explained why this is necessary as a main applicant. We had the discussion last May when the subject was topical. We then talked about the participation of students in the merging of courses. In my view, it is precisely as an asset that we should see contradiction to ensure that unique training is an opportunity. If that's not the case and they're some kind of hobby training, then it ends. The fear that all kinds of hobby training will be maintained, I do not go along with that, because there is a kind of distrust behind it, as if students and teachers could not think about what is good, also in the interest of the institution. All these seem to me to be misguided by a very good proposal. I have listed the proposals from the various groups. These can only lead to students' participation no longer depend on the willingness of directors to involve them. The students will be put in position. This strengthens the information position and the position of participation. Students decide for themselves what information they need to provide good participation. Drivers are forced to involve students more quickly and better in their decision-making. Before consent takes place, there is a good conversation. That's what the practice shows. Just as technically, matters that are put to the vote are dealt with twice on an agenda. You can see that such a driver thinks: that's important, that's what we have to talk about, than when it's just for advice. Let's not underestimate the effect of a good conversation when we talk about consent. Then there's the point of the crazy return thinking. The Labour Party has already put forward proposals to remove the pressure to graduate as soon as possible. There was a motion by Mr Rog and myself on the binding study opinion in the second year. There was a motion by Mr Duisenberg and me on the possibility for students to pay per course. Now there is an important amendment from the SP, with the Labour Party as co-sponsor, to look critically at it and to regulate it legally so that exam results are not suddenly declared invalid, as happened in Leiden a few years ago. It was a mystery to me why that happened. All kinds of arguments have been mentioned, but if there is no evidence of outdated knowledge, this is simply not the case. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna have to settle that better in the law. I am pleased that the CDA Group has supported this, so that I am sure that this amendment will succeed. I am happy about that, because it is important that students who have done an intermediate year, or something else, are not suddenly surprised by having to do everything again. I think this is a good time to settle that. Mr Van Meenen has put forward a number of proposals on participation in the broad lines of the budget. My group has never opposed extending it to other sectors. This seems to me to be a logical consequence of what we have done in higher education. I like to talk about it. There is also a fine amendment by D66 and the Labour Party on the position of student councils. I see that LAKS is also here, like all the other student organisations. It has, of course, our full support for a proper legal anchoring. If we weren't co-hosts, as well. Then I come to the duty of reporting and the supervisor. If you look at how the majority is developing, this could be taken out. Then there's only a little left of this bill. We are talking about a bunch of amendments, but it is important to look seriously at the proposals made by individual groups. I call on them to accept their responsibilities and not to say: this obligation to report can be seen and, for the rest, we can see what happens to all these amendments. It is necessary to further strengthen participation. That's a continuous process. I understand the criticism of the Council of State about the division of roles in this reporting obligation. Like other spokesmen, I would like to ask the Minister's views on the Council of State's opinion or criticism. Let us not forget that this is also inspired by several reports, such as Amarantis, and the discussions we have had about Leiden, Inholland and so on. The supervisor was always criticised. Then you also have to do something in the direction of the supervisor. We owe that to our stand. Taking out the law of reporting does not mean that we can then think that it will be okay. I think we should somehow let the supervisor do what he wants to do. I don't have the solution; I just admit it. The supervisor should show the board his teeth, but not pet them, because he wasn't hired for that. Finally. We want educators, students and teachers to be fully involved in the decision-making process, so that they together shape the education and ask themselves in every decision whether this makes higher education better. This calls for a different administrative attitude, whereby students and teachers in higher education are not seen as a tick-off list, but as a full partner to give education direction and quality. Education is for students. They must have more say about their own studies. A more ambitious study culture is also needed, with good teachers, challenging lectures and good guidance, so that the students can get the best out of themselves and the study. This is how we invest in students and thus in the future. Teachers should be better and more involved in decision-making so that they can shape education together. Control of the public sector; it's about our education. That is of great value and what is of value is of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u190	Mr Van Dijk has a short question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mr Mohandis makes a lot of proposals, and there are also good proposals. We will certainly support them and the vote will be very exciting. On the other hand, my question is: is this the debate on the PvdA and is it done with it? Or does he say: no, we must think further, even beyond the beaten paths? Today, there is a great deal about participation and governance, but there are also opportunities beyond that to involve the community even more. Is Mr Mohandis open to research in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u192	This is an important moment, because the bill is in place. We know that we do not get everything we want into the law. That is a factual fact, given the majorities found in this house. If Mr Van Dijk asks me if I am open to other models, I say yes, let us discuss this with each other. I don't think a model is ever finished. I think a model can always be better. But I also call on Mr Van Dijk not to have wisdom in advance, in the sense that another model is better. We don't know that. Anyway, you've also made interesting proposals in your note. We discussed them with each other not so long ago. If the question is whether I am open to the further debate, I say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u193	Wise words from the Mohandis. Of course, we don't have the wisdom here. We do know that there are a lot of ideas. I have the idea that this law can be improved. We are all trying to do that now, but there are other things that we can imagine. I would like to ask: is it not an idea to ask some sensible people to look at, as is happening in Amsterdam today, what more possibilities are there for improving control at universities and other educational institutions? Would you support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u194	This is always difficult, because when Mr Van Dijk says something, he asks: will you support that proposal? If there's a proposal, I'll wait and see. I support the direction, I have said that before. We have received a large number of amendments and documents in recent days. The Minister of OCW gave us an interesting piece on governance models. Other countries have also been looked at, and I find that interesting. This shows that we do not have the best model. We certainly do not have the worst, let me emphasise that very clearly. But there is certainly more to learn from what is happening elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u195	The amendment tabled by Mr Mohandis together with Mr Van Meenen on the appointment of directors and the application committee is a sympathetic proposal. I have tried to explain in my speech that it is half a proposal. I would also like to put the following question to Mr Mohandis. In his amendment, he assumes that a binding nomination is made by an application committee. Is there no tension about giving a right to make a binding nomination to a temporary committee set up for a particular application? Are you not actually on the wrong side of the line, if you look fundamentally at the rights and the position of the different drivers? Is it not more desirable to opt for a model in which the application committee is made up, but ultimately there is an appointment by the supervisory board and a right of assent for participation? Aren't you cleaner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u196	I understand Mr Grashoff's reasoning. I do not want to take anything away from that, even if he does take something away from my proposal, by calling it half a proposal. I don't agree with that. I have already had a little debate with Mr Van Dijk on alternative governance models. I think that the idea of an application committee is important and very creative, in response to questions such as how we come to joint decision-making and who will become the new man or woman of a university or college. It is more creative than just having the right to consent afterwards. I don't rule out that I can have that idea too, but I thought it was too easy. It is precisely on the fundamental point of administrative appointments that I have gone looking for a way to ensure that at the beginning of the process it is important to underline this: at the beginning of the process the best man or woman is sought, rather than afterwards saying yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u197	We agree on that point. This has already been demonstrated by the debate. I was concerned precisely with the specific issue of purity in the positions of administrative bodies, whereby you grant the right to a binding nomination to a temporary appointed committee. I can imagine that this is at odds with a good separation of powers in the administration. I would also like to put that question to the Minister through Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u198	There's been a lot of discussion about the division of roles. I believe that in this model too, the supervisor is ultimately the one who appoints, but on the basis of a binding nomination. I think that's a great improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mr. Chairman. I also congratulate Mr Bruins on his maiden speech. That was a great story, an inspiring story. This is a wonderful event for him. He is now going to listen for the first time to the only colleague here who has ever swallowed the red pill from The Matrix and sees the naked truth. Some of my colleagues find it best to listen to such a person, but I wish him a great deal of pleasure in that. The day after we talked about the so-called test dictatorship that children would suffer a lot from, it is known that one in seven invaders in the vmbo is illiterate. Mr President, you will hear correctly: illiterate. And then we stand here all day interested in talking about participation in education that would not be enough. That is why I sometimes doubt the priorities and whether we have them in order here. But we do have a problem, a problem with governance in education. One day, under the leadership of a kongsi of CDA, PvdA and D66, a movement to large scale took place in educational country. That started in higher education and was then taken over by the MBO. Now we see that primary education has opted for the same model: large, larger, largest. The time when the HDS was called "HDS," once so, the head of the school, besides teaching in group eight who did management tasks part-time, is forever over. But that retreating government felt that the field itself was capable of controlling itself. Then, as a kind of natural movement, one could even explain Darwinist, a nomenclature of directors and managers, who all thought themselves to be social entrepreneurs, all naturally without running any risk themselves. The governance model chosen was the model of large business, with a board of directors and a supervisory board. In business this works because there the discipline of the market and the discipline of the shareholders are leading. The public sector has no discipline in the market. All risks are passed on to the taxpayer, to the lump sum, all in the tradition of social democracy, which is overrepresented in the field of housing corporations, hospitals and education. There we see drivers with left-wing breasts who grant themselves rewards, bonuses and pensions, which they easily exceed ministers' salaries. We see Maserati's and megalomaniac real estate projects instead of good education. We see nepotism, intimidation and the passing on of lucrative investigations and assignments to friends, who are flown in as interim workers from interim companies that are registered to a wife. We see years of appointment as an advisor with no work whatsoever, etcetera and so on. I would stress that, of course, there are a lot of bona fide drivers. However, they also fail to give the sector a better reputation if they were trying to do so. That's an unexploited job, too. Up to the highest level, the education sector is politicised. They are all ex-politicians, apart from one, I always say very emphatically in the case of domes at the head of the domes. They all come from parties that have been leading education very diligently for years to the state in which it is now. At the same time, it is the parties who today are conjuring the ultimate solution to all the abuses in the left-wing hat: more participation. Participation is going to save us, but participation is going to be like the workers' self-government of the Communist Council Republics of the past, that the then economies were turning their backs. I tweeted this morning: let the sheep, the cows and especially the pigs decide, because it is also their farm. All the people who graduated during the competence-based education I refer to the book Animal Farm by George Orwell. Let them read this. Especially in pigs, we see many references to drivers in the public sector, although it remains a strange sight to see a pig riding around in a Maserati or a Citroen C6 with driver and television, as I recall from the failure project in Holland. I say that the education sector does not suffer from a lack of participation. The education sector has a lack of morality and modest, serviceable directors. The education sector lacks self-cleaning capacity, internally organised contradiction and, above all, courageous participation councils, which dare to bite rather than bark. You're not gonna solve that with the further expansion of co-determination. That's naive thinking. That's feelgood politics like the PvdA and D66 that often do business. The Law on Participation in Schools is already a very nice law with far-reaching powers for staff, students and students. There's nothing wrong with that law. As far as participation is concerned, it is the implementation of the law. Participation is not used exhaustively; far from that. Why is that? This is caused by ignorance, by the delay in information, consciously or unconsciously, which have participation councils, due to lack of expertise. Let me give you an example. D66 wants a legal obligation for everything. In addition, all education laws include a provision on maladministration. In the event of maladministration, the Minister of OCW may give an indication, in legal terms. It's been mentioned before. The scheme on maladministration focuses both on directors and supervisors. See also the example from the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act. It is therefore a question of financial malpractice, serious negligence, unjustified enrichment, unlawful action and serious neglect of care. That's a big deal. In addition, the Supervisory Board has a legal role with regard to the legitimate administration of the institutions. The Supervisory Board may dismiss or suspend the members of the Executive Board, which are the real directors of an educational institution. In higher education, HBO, MBO and secondary education, drivers must also comply with an industry code. That's been mentioned. There's a lot already. There's already a lot on the table that the minister can do. Then why doesn't she, I ask her. Why does the Minister now, together with the PvdA, the SP and D66, transfer responsibility to the staff, the students and the parents? If the Minister and we are unable to get the executive clique of education in place, can they do so through some additional powers of participation? By extending the Co-determination Act with all these bells and bells, we will only have an even bigger problem. After all, the guilty, the real culprits, disappear in the mist. Does the Minister agree with me? Does she share those concerns? The House of Representatives also has many and far-reaching resources. I'm thinking about the end of ROC Leiden. We had the opportunity to send a huge signal to drivers, namely to let ROC Leiden go bankrupt. That would have been a signal. That had only led to insight into that driver's clique, I'm just saying. However, we have not done so. The problem is therefore not a lack of legal resources, either for the Minister or for us, nor a lack of participation. It's really a moral problem with drivers. We see one solution to this problem. It has been mentioned before, since 2014, and we haven't heard from it. After all the financial incidents and the maladministration in all kinds of educational institutions, Amarantis, Inholland, Ibn Ghaldoun and ROC Leiden, which could have been raised and even resolved much earlier with the proper exercise of the participation as it is now, it is now really time to regulate the personal joint and several liability of directors and supervisors. But then we must have the courage, I would say, 'the balls', to make use of them. My group is convinced that if it is established that this is the case, I am referring to the directors, the supervisory board, the supervisory board, the supervisory board, should be jointly and severally held liable for demonstrably administrative and financial failure within educational institutions. Only then will there be self-reflection and only then will there be a focus on cautious, modest and responsible administrative action. In this way, we will avoid maladministration, not using the WMS, which is finally going to get far too little work done in practice. That PVV amendment is the 41st. It's been a while, because Bureau of Legislation was a little busy. But we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u200	There was indeed some congestion at Bureau Legislation due to an influx of amendments. I have a question about the amendment on joint and several liability. As Mr Beertema knows, the VVD is also in favour of the liability of directors and supervisors. There was a bill in preparation. Is Mr Beertema's proposal different from the one that is being prepared? If that is the case, can he explain the difference between what is being prepared, what is being done by the government, and what is in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u201	I have to hand over the VVD. Perhaps that is not known in every corner that we do not rule, that we are opposition. I have no idea what the minister is doing. In 2014, we already talked about joint and several liability. At least I didn't hear about it. You're a coalition partner, and you probably know more than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u202	I'm as dualistic as the plague, you might say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u203	Especially today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u204	I really have no idea and I find 2014 a long time ago. I am therefore very curious to hear the Minister's answer to what is coming, what is the difference and, when it comes, whether it can get there soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u205	I hope so with Mr Duisenberg. We wait together, very dualistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u206	I also had the impression that that already happened, that liability. I believe that the amendment is superfluous, but we will see that. We got a litanie from Mr. Beertema against that driver's clique and I can recognize a large part of it. It's the executive nomads, who hop from institution to institution, often also politically affiliated and from whom you wonder why. Those people have absolutely no connection to their own institution and go in every direction with their real estate projects. Then Mr Beertema comes up with a solution: we must be able to dismiss them or hold them liable. It's probably already being taken care of. But we have to be there at first and make sure those people don't get there. We have to make sure that they're administrators with a heart for education, who, for all I care, stand in front of the class. That is what I have tried to say in my term, namely that the board is bound by it. How will the PVV take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u207	I agree with and agree with the SP Group, even in the past. But our solutions vary enormously. Mr Van Dijk sees the solution by making participation farther advanced, which greatly weakens and obscures responsibilities. That's really not going in the right direction. Even if his amendments are adopted, we still have a huge paper tiger that will be as powerless and powerless as the existing WMS. At the moment, there are a lot of possibilities. I have not seen any directors come or go without an extensive, very difficult application procedure involving all sections of the participation. All those sections could say their piece. That was not simply pushed aside; it was listened to very seriously. However, it could happen that for example by the ROC Leiden a director was hired who helped the place all the way to the philistines, just in time was applied to a large educational institution in Rotterdam where she went through exactly the same heavy mill of co-determination and was miraculously appointed again. It's like this everywhere. They're mysterious mechanisms. I have tried to expose it by tabling a motion, in which I propose to make a sociogram of that educational clique, as I keep calling it, of those people who move each other's jobs. It is a very closed stronghold, where you can hardly enter from the outside. It would be very interesting to make a schedule of who is who, as in the time of the 200 of Martens. That can give a lot of insight. The motion didn't make it, but I'm doing my best. I do not know whether Mr Van Dijk has voted in favour. That doesn't exactly help me. However, it would give a lot of insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u208	Insight is fantastic. This has already been done once, by the university magazines. Good advice is worth gold, that's what it was called. Mr Beertema should look at that, because it is fascinating. It's a little weak, isn't it? We're standing here today to put an end to that. Mr Beertema is very angry about it and then he says that we need to map it. No, we need to put an end to it, so that it becomes drivers with ties and feelings for the people for whom they do their jobs. I've made proposals for that. It should no longer be the case that such a driver is indeed parachuted from a kind of blackbox without any support within such an institution. Why doesn't Mr Beertema support the idea of hiring directors with support from their schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u209	Because I'm against unnecessary legislation. I am opposed to unnecessary Hague regulatoryism, which produces a lot of paper, but in practice is not going to mean anything. It is very naive to think that all these powers of assent are going to improve anything about the problem that is now before us and on which we agree. However, we do not agree on the solution. This isn't gonna solve anything. This is just cloaking away. Moreover, it gives that cabal the full right to say: that council can do anything and the members have agreed, so don't look at us if things go wrong. I think that is a very wrong signal. You have to reason the other way, by making those directors personally responsible and jointly liable. It's gonna have to cost something. It must cost a career and it must cost capital. Let them sell their house to pay things back. Only then will they come to their senses. Then they'll say, "Okay, we can't do this anymore." This also keeps away all kinds of over-ambitious drivers with over-ambitious, wrong objectives in this type of application procedure. Then you get back to the educators, who are not at all afraid that that will happen because they are focused on good education, on children and on parents. They are perhaps going to regulate that power of assent in their own institution and institution, together with those presidents of that participation council, as Mr Van Meenen once did. Of course you can. However, in my view, this legal excess is not going to solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u210	It's gonna be a lot of trouble, but I'm gonna try one more time anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u211	Do this briefly, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u212	I'm going to do that on the basis of the case of the appointment. Mr Beertema says that these directors are going through a very difficult procedure, in which they are heard by everyone and everything. Is it not true that the final final piece is missing? Those people from the field, those teachers and students, ultimately have no ball to tell at such an appointment. Is it not, in the end, that the Supervisory Board simply takes the decision? The Supervisory Board says, having heard everything, this is what we're going to do. Wouldn't it help if you gave them teeth, especially in a situation like this, but also in other situations, and if they could say: but that's not how we're going to do it? Wouldn't it help if we stepped away from just that vague right of advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u213	Mr Bertema is responding to this again, but less than just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u214	Shorter? No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u215	Yes, but shorter than just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u216	No, I think this is serious. I really don't think that would help. I've been on that kind of committee myself. The advice given was indeed listened to. That weighed heavily. There too, huge mistakes have been made. I say again: I am not concerned about the lack of participation, but really about that lack of morality. I really care about that closed character of that incestuous world of directors. The members of, among other things, participation are of course all amateurs. It's supposed to be, and it should stay that way. But they will always have an information deficit vis-à-vis the drivers. So they will always be played by cunning drivers. Really, Mr. Van Meenen, it's not gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u217	I'm gonna make one last attempt. Mr Beertema has rightly pointed out that there are directors, and indeed I was also one of those who decide to extend the powers of participation. Does Mr Beertema not think it is a very strange situation that the power of participation depends on the directors, that is precisely on those who have to control participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u218	I don't think that's so weird. One institution is a well-led institution of bona fide drivers. They will create a climate in their own institution in which this is perfectly possible. At the other institution, the proportions are much more hostile. Even if you are going to enforce consent in such an institution, no one will be happier. Then the drivers will always find other ways of getting their own way. The people of the co-determination council are given a responsibility in the way that is being proposed, which you should not give them. After all, they are not paid to deal with it. It's bad for their careers, and it's just not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u219	Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin by congratulating Mr Bruins on his wonderful maiden speech. It holds a great promise for the future. I look forward to that. From a relatively recently acquired grandfatherly dignity, I have once again taken up all kinds of educational manuals, as one of my colleagues does with a certain regularity. In this I come across all kinds of old principles and principles. One of those old principles was the three r's. In the meantime I have become somewhat uncertain whether I have to work with three r's or with four r's, because I also encountered four r's somewhere: rest, cleanliness, regularity and the fourth is space. That also has something, at least when it comes to your grandchildren; with your children it's usually about a slightly different responsibility, I'll say. These are key words that appear in books about education. If children receive new rules or new expectations every year, the credibility of the educator decreases inversely. Rules are taken less seriously and the goal gets further out of sight. As far as I am concerned, this lesson will have to work as a warning to the legislator. For the issue of governance and participation alone, the legislator has made and dealt with seven proposals in five years' time. And now here lies the law on good education and good governance, the law strengthening control, the law strengthening quality guarantees, the law quality in diversity, the law on the loan system, the law quality aspects mbo, the law strengthening administrative power. That's how one piles up on the other. These sounding names must be very hopeful about education, you think. I haven't even mentioned all kinds of detailed arrangements. Or is this legislation evidence of the need for the legislator to reassure himself that we have done the right thing in particular? Then it goes well, at least, we could assume. In practice, the measures are apparently so high in quality that within one year new ones are needed, possibly in another area, but we are building on them; let me say in particular that they are positive. The government needs a clear division of tasks and powers. When I read that, my heart made a leap of joy. The SGP notes that, in the present proposal, the boundaries between these responsibilities of participation and the supervisory board seem to fade further. For example, participation is given the right of assent to the budget, although only on the main lines. Of course, it is important that the Supervisory Board should have regular contact with all sections of the institution, but an obligation to consult the Supervisory Board at least twice a year? Are these choices that ultimately make such organs happier, or is this too much meddling? Wanting to prescribe too much, wanting to think too much from the idea that the culture will change if you take care of it. If there is a sector where regulation has minimal impact on cultural reform, then it really is education. It is an illusion to think that this will lead to cultural change. A question in general. Respect for each other's responsibilities and expertise within such an institution also means that powers should sometimes remain very consciously invested in one of the institutions. Comments on this bill rightly pointed out that the proposal is actually more like a law strengthening participation than a law strengthening administrative power. In doing so, there has been a rain of amendments on co-determination. It's still raining, because that of the SGP isn't in yet. It is precisely for this reason that it is worrying that a fundamental consideration of the expectations and possibilities of participation is still lacking. I can see that in this discussion too. Participation is not the same as participation and decision-making. The SGP has a very different approach to this, precisely from thinking in that strict separation of responsibilities. But that discussion didn't happen. That's a missed opportunity. Will decisions on large investments and budgets eventually be taken by people who are often relatively short-lived in participation? How representative is the representation in the participation actually? What does a lack of enthusiasm to be active in participation, as the VVD calls it, say about this system? I would ask the Minister to elaborate on this. Can we come up with a definition of what the institutions will be able to practice seriously in the coming years? You know, rest, space, regularity, cleanliness. I'd like to dwell on the duty of reporting. In several research reports on administrative abuses, it has been strongly stressed that not so much additional rules as a different culture is needed. In my view, this bill is a slightly different course. This goes more in the direction of the rules than in the direction of cultural influence. It is argued with good reasoning that new obligations promote culture within the community. Of course they have influence, but those well-meaning obligations can even work counter-productively. Take the obligation for the Supervisory Board to report risks to the inspection. The legal text does not even show that there must be serious problems that threaten the institution's survival. Even if that remains in it, it will, in any case, have to be more carefully regulated. Moreover, the public interest the government is referring to can be explained in a variety of ways. Should we not ask ourselves: why should this public interest not be sufficiently guaranteed by simply consistent compliance with current education laws? There are instruments in there that just aren't used. In any event, the risk of this reporting obligation is that internal supervisors will be very strategic when they can also be held personally liable. So we don't think we should do this. I would like to make it clear that this duty is a heavy burden on the SGP. Moreover, the proposed reporting obligation for the Supervisory Board for the SGP is also somewhat out of place. Research reports show, in particular, that the inspection in the event of abuses was repeatedly delayed, while all information was known. This was just not properly linked. So the problem was not that the inspection had too little insight into the problems. I refer to the recent investigation into the situation at ROC Leiden. Why would you add that reporting obligation? It has something to do with the situation in which someone who has a toolbox with a hammer, a chisel, a nipper, a screwdriver and a pair of pliers, when he wants to punch a nail in the wall, says: I can't get that thing in; you know what, I'll add another glue pliers to my toolskit. Yeah, but that doesn't help! You just need to use that hammer properly. Unless you're Obelix just gonna shove that nail in the wall; you can, too. Most of us will not be equipped for that. I come to the duty of consultation. In addition to the obligation to notify, the Supervisory Board is required to consult the Supervisory Board at least twice a year. The meeting of the Supervisory Board is thus more or less governed by the law. This seems to us to be a particularly flexible interpretation of the concept of'system control'. First of all, I have a factual question. The proposal states that meetings are to be held twice a year, but the explanatory memorandum assumes that it is half-yearly. That sounds like peanuts, but what is it anyway? Can it be at the beginning of the year and at the end of the year? Is that enough? Or do you really have to do it every six months? How's that? The question then arises as to why only the relationship of the supervisory board with participation is regulated. Doesn't that include a high degree of randomness? Why is the relationship between the board of directors and participation not important enough? She's not being taken care of. And what about the relationship between the supervisory board and the board of directors? If we go this way, we will probably be assured of further legislative proposals in the coming years. This is, of course, highly recommended for our employment, but we have serious doubts as to whether it is appropriate for the quality of legislation. As far as we are concerned, it is not a rosy perspective. The SGP has therefore tabled an amendment to remove this obligation altogether and welcomes the Government's reaction to it. Finally, I come to the issue of incompatible functions. In our opinion, not all the different functions in education can be properly combined in one person. It is not desirable, for example, to sit in two colleges at the same time. Unfortunately, in practice, it appears that drivers are avoiding this point of departure in a creative way. For example, they rig up legal structures that allow them to control two rocks at the same time. The SGP has tabled an amendment to undo this, following the vision previously sent by the inspection and the Minister in response to questions from the SGP on this point. Moreover, the rules on the incompatibility of functions for the different sectors are agreed. Perhaps the Minister would like to take this opportunity to consider whether a more uniform regime could be established for all sectors. Rest, space, regularity and cleanliness will benefit education. Following the adoption of the legislative proposal, whether amended or not, let us agree with each other that we are choosing these four rs and that we are very much concerned about further regulation of education in the coming year. Then we can pretend to be renouncing our duty, but perhaps that is precisely what is best for education. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I'm glad I didn't keep my colleagues off dinner for too long. At least I hope this isn't too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u220	Mr Van Meenen is making another attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u221	Very briefly. I always have a great deal of appreciation and sympathy for Mr Bishop's contributions. Of course, those four r's are very appealing to me as a fellow grandfather.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u222	I knew it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u223	Mr Bishop is using the argument that we should stay away from it because we do not need to overload education again with additional rules. This has been discussed before. I doubt this is true. As far as the strengthening of participation is concerned, there is simply legislation and the fundamental question is many things: do we give the right to advice or consent within these regulations? Does Mr Bishop agree with me that these are not additional rules, but that it is at most a nuance of the current rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u224	In certain areas, it does indeed go from consultative law to consent law. But a point like the reporting obligation is cycled in it. There's still a few of those things. There is no need for education on that. If participation is to be defined 'co-determination' as I define it for myself, because we can discuss the terminology endlessly with a stand-alone position well-designed, then you get better education because you involve the sections. This could be one of those monitoring elements of the inspection: tell me, how did you regulate participation and apprenticeship involvement? You really don't have to have any legal regulations that prescribe it in detail. In that sense, I would like to offer a little more room for the institutions, but they have to arrange it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u225	For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask the following question. We can only agree on the obligation to report. I also think that this is about rolling blurring and so on. I also ask a question that I have asked a few other colleagues: how does Mr Bishop look at the power of participation depend on the choices of the driver? The driver can determine whether the participation remains at the legal minimum of an advisory right or whether the participation is entitled to consent. Isn't that extraordinary?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u226	In the current Law on Participation, certain policies, such as employee participation, have the right to consent. So it's more nuanced. Let that apply to you and add the right of assent to the broad lines of the budget, at least for higher education, which is regulated in the framework of the loan system. These tools must be properly used and the inspection must ensure that they are properly used. It is a toolbox with which you can do a lot as a staff and as a student or student. I am more in favour of using the instruments that are already available than of extending them further. That glue clamp's not gonna do you any good. In that respect, I share the concerns of the Bertema, who wonders whether you will achieve the intended goal if you extend the instruments. I really question whether this is the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u227	I would like to thank you all very much, with which the first-term debate on the part of the Chamber has come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-21-tweedekamer-10.u228	A number of Members have already pointed out that very many amendments have been tabled. A number of Members have indicated that amendments will still be tabled. The Minister stated that she would respond to all the amendments in a letter. If that letter is received, the debate will resume. That won't be tonight. I thank the Minister, the members and the public.
