ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, a bill for whistleblowers was passed in this house. The purpose of that law is to offer some comfort to those who denounce social abuses. The PVV has, as we know, great affinity with whistleblowers. Every member of our group feels more or less like a whistleblower, especially on such an ink black day as today. I intend to ring the bell again in this debate, which many people do not want to hear. I intend to address lasting abuses and misunderstandings. I do not rule out the fact that, like last time, a number of colleagues will hear a number of things that have not been heard before. I have to look in the direction of Mrs. Fox at one of these moments. Let's start with the climate. That is the starting point for the sustainability issue. There were times on earth with much more CO in the atmosphere than it is now while it was colder and there were times with much less COter while it was much warmer. Nevertheless, CO is for some reason designated as the great culprit, the only variable of the climate, while it is also a source of food for everything that is green. With some regularity, this graph shows that the amount of COin is increasing in the atmosphere. Indeed, it shows a rising line. It is important to look at the y-axis of that graph. It doesn't just say they're 400 particles. It's 400 particles per 1 million particles. If we then filter out the natural CO, there's a lot of CO in our nature, about 97% of it, then there's a share of 0.0012% of CO emitted by human action. The atmosphere thus consists of 0.0012%, twelve millionth part, of CO emitted by human action. I reviewed the hearings in 2013 in the United States Senate. That's where the Senate is interested in science. Many scientists say that such a proportion of human-induced COon may have a significant impact on the climate. The hearing is on YouTube. I commend this report to all those who are starting to study this dossier. However, CO is a greenhouse gas that warms up, but it clearly highlights the question of whether we should spend so many billions on the twelfth and thirteenth millionth particles in the atmosphere. I hear a bell ringing. On one side of the debate are the sceptics or the realists who say that this CO quantity cannot have a significant impact on the climate, or that it is completely unclear how much that impact will be. On the other hand, the alarmists say the temperature is going to rise. They even made it into a calculation model. The impact of the Paris climate agreement on global temperatures will be 0.05°C in the year 2100. Then the temperature does not rise by 4.5°C but by 4.45°C. If the consequences of a possible rise in temperature were so serious, wouldn't it be much more sensible to invest in climate adaptation, so it physically prepares you for the ever-changing climate? When the water rises, do you spend a euro on raising a dike, on protecting security, or do you spend a million on measures that give you zero security on protection and which you only hope will work? For the PVV Group, this choice is quite simple, also because we do want to see global coal-fired power stations being built. But whatever side of the debate you're on, you can only support the law if you're completely factually or perhaps religiously in the discussion. The subsidy energy we are discussing here today, well, which I am discussing here today, is completely superfluous. It's even counterproductive. Everyone who visits the website of the International Energy Agency knows that fossil fuel consumption will only increase in the coming decades. That's not so crazy, considering that up to 2050 there are about 2.5 billion people coming into the world, a problem that goes well beyond any windmill discussion. These windmills will never be able to contribute to an affordable and reliable energy supply. In addition, they do not contribute in any way to reducing emissions. In fact, if you add up the effects of the CO-commerce emissions system, this will only result in a shift from Western Europe to Eastern Europe, they will simply produce more emissions. Windmills are the placebos of energy supply: it's no use; it's misplaced suggestion, an illusion. Denmark and Germany, with all their wind turbines, have the highest electricity prices in Europe, while emissions do not want to fall. Do you hear the bell ringing? Since these windmills do not contribute to more emissions, those arbitrary percentages of 14% and 16% of renewable energy were totally fictional, fake, fake, made up. If we extrapolate the cost of the fictitious sustainable targets of 14% and 16%, let's say 85% fossil-free, then the cost is 685 billion. I'm not a clock here. I'm a whole carillon. 685 billion is three times the rich budget. If I understood Mr Pijlman of D66 correctly in December, we should do so because we can continue to talk about subsidy energy worldwide. The PVV Group regularly asks what the impact on the climate of all these measures we are taking here, even now. What exactly do the tens of billions we spend have an impact on the climate? People don't know. So you formulate policies because of the effects on the climate, but you have no idea what the consequences are. People don't give a shit. Well, in December I already calculated that the contribution of the Netherlands to the lower temperature increase is 0.0026°C. The Minister also understands, of course, that this message is not very easy to sell. Then there are the occasional arguments, in this case: but we want to be less dependent on energy suppliers from abroad. But we just invested 8.2 billion with the Gasunie and the EBN in the gas roundabout, to make sure that gas is available from abroad when our gas stock runs out or is no longer winable because of the problems in Groningen. What do you mean, less dependent? The UN has established the Green Climate Fund. From 2020 onwards, USD 100 billion per year is to be paid in. In the meantime, the Netherlands has paid 10.2 billion into this pot, which has been paid out by the Ministry of Development Cooperation. Money from poor people in rich countries rolls to rich people in poor countries. This has been the case for 70 years with development aid, but now under the guise of 'green'. In an unguarded moment, people want to admit that. Take Ottmar Edenhofer, co-chair of Working Group III of the IPCC for a long time. He said, "We redistributed de facto the world's wealth by climate policy." (...) One has to free oneself from the illusion that international climate policy is environmental policy." In other words, we are redistributing prosperity around the world, and climate policy has nothing to do with environmental policy. That doesn't include a word of Spanish. The man's not a climate scientist either. He's an economist. In Nature, a scientific journal, he indicated that he was influenced by Karl Marx. I rest my case. Dan TenneT, which was kind of snowed down in December when we discussed the group ban. In committee, I drew attention to the danger that the European Commission might regard the grant to TenneT as State aid. But the directives on so-called renewable energy come from Brussels. Of course, it will be a matter for the Commission whether State aid is involved. The European project must continue. France has never complied with the budgetary rules. Greece did not fulfil any condition when it joined the euro. The same was true for Bulgaria and Romania upon accession to the EU. The chance that the European Commission is making a problem of this state aid for self-defeated subsidy energy is, let's face it, negligible. The Minister states that most of the network at sea will be contracted by TenneT. However, he does not want to know of a total tender, because contractors would increase the risk of having to pay compensation, he wrote literally. That would raise the price. But what risks are we talking about? For TenneT it has become a game without staples. You get a grant and only in the event of gross negligence the compensation costs should not be passed on to those who are connected to the network. At least, up to a maximum of 10 million a year. In plain Dutch: if TenneT makes a mess of it, his risk is only 10 million a year. That's a lot of money, but in the light of the total assignment, it's obviously a slap. I strongly believe that this is a dream scenario for a contractor: a few years' maximum risk of 10 million on a billion-dollar contract. That would not drive the tender price forward but would reduce it. So, as in December, I am still looking for a reason for the appointment of TenneT. If most of the grid is tendered anyway, the suggestion is that the cost reduction is only achieved because TenneT does it, simply refute it. I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, fines are not included in the 40% cost reduction. I refer again to Germany. There at wind farm BARD 1 the damage was 1.8 million a day. It took about three months for everything to get back to work. So that's 162 million. Obviously, those Members who do not want to speak today have forgotten how it can go wrong with the construction of infrastructure. The North/South line, the Betuwe line: it all got out of hand. How can the Minister guarantee that this 40% reduction in costs will be achieved if all damages are to be paid? And what if the costs of construction simply get much higher, as with the Betuwe line? I'd like a response. In the event that TenneT gets the assignment, this means that for the Dutch citizen he can take the fall, or as a shareholder of TenneT, or if he is connected to the network. Whether you're bitten by the cat or the dog! In the written input, the PVV repeatedly referred to the Energiewende, the energy miserable in Germany. An SPD minister called further expansion of wind on land economically nonsensical. An SPD minister: the miracles are not over yet. Mind you, he was talking about wind on land, asking for less subsidies than wind at sea. Even a German socialist has awakened from the evil green dream, but our Dutch minister, once liberal, refuses to learn from this debacle. Why is that? Why do we refuse to learn from the failure of Germany? More than a million Germans are out of power because it has become priceless. The wholesale prices of energy are sometimes very low because the Germans do not know where to go with the electricity if it happens to be enough, but that does not mean that the electricity bill has not become priceless for many Germans. Where is the border with this minister? How many Dutch households are allowed to run out of electricity from the Minister, because the bill has become priceless for them too? Meanwhile, Dutch people avoid the care because they can no longer afford the risk and soon they will also be in the dark. In Germany the share of wind energy varies widely, between 0% and 38% of electricity. In the case of little or no wind, therefore, 100% conventional energy must be available and in the case of many winds wind farms must be disconnected because the high voltage grid cannot handle the supply. And then what comes on the net has to be sold at price-dumping prices. Sometimes large consumers even receive a fee for energy consumption during these peaks. Where Poland and the Czech Republic, in all the rationality that block fluctuating electricity from Germany to protect their networks, TenneT is going to spend 22 billion to adapt the grid to volatile subsidy energy; talking about whistleblowers. What do you mean, 40% cost reduction? TenneT is going to spend 22 billion. We could give a number of generations of old people a decent old age. But, the Minister writes, maybe someday we can save the wind energy. There is no idea of that and it would only make subsidy energy more uneconomic. Then there is employment. On several occasions, the Energy Agreement signatories stated that it would create 15,000 jobs. Taking 72 billion out of society, pulling it out of the economy, and then saying it's creating jobs? Economics may not be an exact science, but you would hope that those who say that, if you increase the burden, this would create jobs under the line, would be free from administrative tasks. Where Dutch tax euros roll through the wind park Gemini to Canada, because the investor lives there, where hard-earned Dutch tax money rolls through wind park Luchterduinen from Eneco to Tokyo. Both parks consist of mills produced in Denmark and added to the Chinese solar panels you really don't need to have taken too many lessons in the economy in order to draw the conclusion that the CPB and many economists draw, namely that, if you do a graze in the wallet of the Dutchman, this harms prosperity, the economy and employment. In the written comments I referred once again to the CPB. That's what wrote a nice note about it a few years ago. Decisio came up with a report on wind off the coast. It confirmed what the PVV has been saying for years. At the back of the report is reported somewhere in brackets, and not in a summary, that wind at sea abroad produces seven times more jobs than in the Netherlands, while the Dutch pay the costs, the storage on energy taxes and the high taxes. I'm just gonna ring the bell again. The Committee on Economic Affairs also called for attention, just a side step, for the LOFAR radio telescope in Drenthe. I'm free to ask about it in plenary. At the time, the Minister referred to the fact that windmills did not disturb the radio telescope as a prerequisite, as a result of a question from Mr Flierman. I would like to see that condition confirmed once again, because there are contradictory sounds in the media about this. It doesn't matter that real science, in which millions have been invested, becomes the victim of green fairy tales. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would also like to make a comment on biomass, which is also an important part of the Energy Agreement. In the meantime, the PvdA in the Lower House wants to get rid of this, not because the emissions are dirtyer than those of coal, but because it is used as a supplement in coal power stations. On this subject, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences says repeatedly: "The burning of wood in power plants and of bioethanol and biodiesel in cars does not seem to contribute, or hardly does, to the saving of CO emissions. Therefore, they are not suitable as a means for the transition to a sustainable energy supply." I've sounded some bells. In the meantime, it should be possible for colleagues to know more or less where the valve is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Dercksen and his colleagues for their willingness to deal with this bill soon. I very much appreciate that, because this will enable me, if the legislative proposal is adopted, to realise the plans for wind energy on land and wind energy at sea without further delay and thereby enable us to achieve the objectives we have agreed in the Energy Agreement in good time. With regard to wind at sea, the legislative proposal provides a basis for the designation of TenneT as network manager for that network and the appropriate regulatory framework. In addition, we provide security for wind farm developers about liability for damage caused by possible delays and malfunctions. We estimate that they will not occur, but if they do, they will not be borne by those who cannot influence them, namely the operators of the wind farms. Then wind on land. This legislative proposal provides for an acceleration of the procedure for the connection of wind farms to the electricity grid, an improvement in the provincial coordination system and an improvement in the obligation to tolerate. These parts were already included in the Electricity Bill, which has already been dealt with in this Chamber. This legislative proposal was drawn up in an open process, involving many different organisations and citizens, creating a supported compromise on the legislative proposal. The provisions currently contained in this bill correspond in substance to what is stated in the STROOM Act. Only because of the other systems of the law STROOM, compared with the system of the laws currently in force, has there been some change in the wordings and in the placement of various subjects in the legal texts. The wind farms that can now be realized in time are primarily the wind farms at sea off the coast of Zeeland. These are usually referred to as the Borssele wind farms. If the legislative proposal is adopted in a timely manner, it can be implemented so quickly that by 2020 they can contribute to our 14% renewable energy target. TenneT has been designated as the manager of the maritime network. That's not a big find, because TenneT also manages all the large network on land. It seems obvious to me, when you realize windmills at sea, that you allow the connection between those windmills at sea and the network on land to be realized by the same party that does so on land. Moreover, the documents show that there are cost benefits when you engage TenneT; cost benefits through standardisation. TenneT is the expert in this field. If TenneT can connect all wind farms, the same system can always be used. That's cost-effective. In purchasing and maintenance, economies of scale can be achieved. Lower financing costs can also be achieved. This also reduces the loss of electricity generation in the event of redundancy failures that may occur. There are also benefits from planning coordination. It simplifies the absorption of grid fluctuations and balance sheet enforcement, leading to integrated grid management, knowledge pooling and a clear distribution of tasks and responsibilities in the electricity system. With this bill we are doing what is necessary to ensure the transition to a sustainable energy that we have started in the Netherlands and which is virtually agreed internationally. In Paris, it was agreed between 195 countries. The EU has already laid down this in directives. It is laid down in the coalition agreement and also in the Energy Agreement. It was also dealt with in the judgment of the judge in the Urgenda issue. This bill makes it possible to start the transition to renewable energy quickly and responsibly. We are far from there; much more needs to be done, but it is important to make this start now, in the way we have been able to explain it to the Chamber on several occasions and as we have worked out it in more detail in the legislative proposal that is now under discussion. Mr Dercksen has spoken dozens of times about whistleblowers and whistleblowers. I understand he was talking about himself. I also understand that his whole group consists of whistleblowers. I have the impression that he may, although I doubt it, have heard the bell ring but in any case does not know where the clapper is. At least I can't make chocolate out of his story. That story basically means that CO is not a problem, that the graphs give a distorted picture, that the Netherlands is not interested in science, unlike the Senate of the United States that would be, and that climate skeptics are in his view the same as realists who believe that CO does not affect the climate. He quotes the IEA as if it were a supporter of him, whereas this international energy agency is precisely stating that it is absolutely necessary to use the transition to renewable energy, as we are doing. He concludes that we are only doing something: development aid is being given under the guise of green, TenneT should be treated as a contractor and TenneT would make a mess of it anyway at the expense of Dutch citizens. Madam President, what am I supposed to do with all this? I have made a serious legislative proposal to the Chamber here and I would like to give a serious explanation of this. I have been able to do so in my explanatory statement to the bill and I have tried to do so in my answers to Mr Dercksen's written questions. I do not think he has put forward any new points of view in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u5	No, but I did want to highlight a few things once more. I can announce that I'm going to do that every time this kind of bill comes along. I did say some things and some things didn't. I didn't say TenneT would make a mess of things in advance. I have just said that if you take this kind of large infrastructure measures, there is also, of course, a chance that it will go wrong. When I read your answer to my questions, that risk will be fully borne by the taxpayer, either as the holder of TenneT or through taxes. So my question is how you are going to tell this house, as well as the other side, that the 40% reduction you are aiming for is also being achieved. We won't know for a few years. You'll be gone. How can you guarantee that this is true? In addition, if I may ask the second question at the same time, a large part of the work at sea is tendered by TenneT. We have no problem with TenneT becoming the manager of the network. We're fine with that. TenneT is an important infrastructure in the hands of the state, but that doesn't mean that you have to put it there and it doesn't mean that you get the best price if you have it built by TenneT. Those are my questions right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u6	Next time, would you like to ask your questions through the President, Mr Dercksen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u7	Not only did Mr Dercksen take the word "debris" in relation to TenneT; in his eyes everyone makes a mess of it, whether in Germany, in the Netherlands or in France. That doesn't matter: everyone makes a mess of it in the eyes of whistleblower Dercksen. That is not a realistic presentation of things. It is even formulated in such a way that it makes no sense for me to go into the substance of this matter. The security of supply of electricity is currently 99,97%. It is constantly monitored that costs remain affordable for citizens, regardless of how the citizen has to pay that price, via the tax or via the electricity bill. Subject to a single exception, efforts are being made to address CO emissions, in the way in which international agreements have been made. The Netherlands makes a loyal contribution to this and does what is necessary. A major transition must be made from fossil to sustainable, and that is not easy. A plan has been drawn up for this between now and the year 2050. Political and social agreements have been reached on this. We're doing what's necessary right now. Mr Dercksen's qualifications are therefore completely out of place. I don't have another word for that. Then I come to what Mr Dercksen says about TenneT. How can I guarantee that TenneT will achieve a cost reduction? We have given extensive information to the First Chamber and therefore to Mr Dercksen on the cost of the network at sea at various times, from different angles. We have indicated what is causing this cost reduction. We have indicated how this will turn into numbers of euros. We have indicated how that turns into amounts to be paid per kilowatt hour. That has been indicated in all possible ways. If we enable TenneT, we can achieve a major cost reduction, with the arguments I have just briefly mentioned. Of course, it makes sense that TenneT is contracting out the work that has to be done at sea. TenneT is a 100% state participation that manages networks, but it is not a company that can realize this at sea itself. You have companies that do that: companies that supply parts for the power stations that are made at sea and companies that supply the cable connections. Of course, this is being tendered, as is the case in the Procurement Act. TenneT is very capable of doing so and has done so a lot on land, but also at sea, and knows exactly how to do that for the wind farms off the Dutch coast. In my opinion and according to the firm itself, it is very capable of doing so. I have not yet heard any argument from Mr Dercksen as to why TenneT would not be able to do so, other than to call into question and give disqualifications. Arguments why that company couldn't do that, I haven't heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u8	I didn't qualify Tennet at all. You may take the measure of things I say, but you cannot take the measure of things I do not say. I said that if TenneT fails and has to pay compensation because it is not on time or because there are malfunctions, the bill does not come to TenneT. Yeah, for up to 10 million a year, but that's a slap on a billion-dollar assignment. That's what I said. So you shouldn't take me the size of things I didn't say. TenneT will be able to do the best, but the question is whether they are doing the most economically advantageous thing, if it is a package of conditions that would be very attractive to the market as well. Finally, I did not say that they made a mess of things in Germany. I have quoted an SPD minister who says it is absurd to continue with wind energy and I have indicated that a million Germans are out of electricity. That you qualify that as a mess, I see as a compliment, but don't tell me it's from me. I produce the facts here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mr Dercksen's whole speech was based on suggestions and disqualifications. If he can't imagine that, his reading of his text is more than clarifying to him, I think. There is no point in constantly qualifying as negative what we are doing with all of us, because we believe it is necessary to make the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy, for which we have a strong social base in the Netherlands, what has been agreed in Europe and what has been agreed in the world. It's not gonna do you any good. What could be done is that Mr Dercksen will come up with arguments on the basis of which things can be reconsidered. For his part, however, I have not heard any arguments calling for this. It was entirely obvious to appoint TenneT. It is also self-evident that TenneT has to procure it. TenneT is very capable of doing that and has already proven it. We also have the Procurement Act for this. We have a guide on proportionality which states how all this should be done in more detail. The problem Mr Dercksen raises is completely unclear to me. With regard to TenneT, I really can't make anything more than what I've made of it now in its direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u10	Mr. Dercksen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u11	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u12	Then I come to Mr Dercksen's statement that 10 million comes from TenneT and the rest on behalf of the taxpayer or the payer of the electricity bill. But Mr. Dercksen will understand, I hope, that the account always comes from the payer of the electricity bill. At the moment, we are supplying fossil energy, the costs of which are paid by the electricity customer or by the taxpayer. The transition to renewable energy is no different. People need energy. We organise with each other that all kinds of energy are supplied. The costs are paid by the customers. To the extent that part of the costs are borne by the government, this is ultimately done by taxpayers. It's never been any different, and it's not gonna change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u13	That was at the heart of my question about tendering. I can remember that the A15 almost lost two contractors, because we had launched a tendering process in which the risks were with the contractors. Now you hire TenneT, if I may say so flatly, and you say: whether you have to pay compensation, whether you make it right or wrong, TenneT's risk is limited to 10 million a year. That was my question, particularly in conjunction with your 40% reduction plan. You give an open end command to TenneT, in which you have every confidence. You can have that. We will see, because infrastructure in the Netherlands unfortunately often goes wrong. I would point out the risk that things might get out of hand and that the risk is not with the contractor, but with TenneT, and that is us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u14	I'm not hiring TenneT. I will just leave the person who manages the grid on land to provide the connection between the windmills at sea and the power grid on land. That makes perfect sense, because if I did not do so, and I would give a third of the opportunity to do so by means of a call for tenders, after which I would contract separately for each wind farm and employ a third, I would run risks. Who are these third parties, do they have sufficient expertise in the house, is TenneT not going to say: what is provided by that third party is not good? Or does the third one say it's at TenneT? You can imagine what could go wrong. We are trying to prevent this kind of thing right now. We're just gonna let the normal network operator control those connections. The cost of this is much lower, as I have said to you on many occasions. I have listed the reasons for this at the beginning of my term. I think what we are doing is entirely obvious and logical. Furthermore, we have made good arrangements to ensure that this is done smoothly. If there is a delay at TenneT, wind farm operators may be burdened with the costs. Those who have to register on the tenders are going to think: we run a risk, we don't know how big that is, but let's estimate that risk and charge for our registration. The taxpayer will then have to pay for a risk that is estimated by someone who participates in a tender. That risk is unlikely to arise. This only leads to higher costs, for which no one buys anything at all. We'll have that connection run by the one with the most expertise, so TenneT. Let's do that in a time frame that, according to TenneT, is ambitious, but feasible. And we ensure that the risk remains with TenneT, so contractors do not have to charge high amounts for risk assessment. The electricity consumers and taxpayers are thus saved these additional costs. That is how we should do it, and that is how we can do it with the support of the Chamber. Mr Dercksen asked me to confirm that there was no interference by the windmills towards LOFAR. That is the subject of discussion. In the first instance, the management of LOFAR indicated that it did not think that would be the case. To the extent that this was the case, these risks could be addressed by mitigation measures. Later, on the basis of research carried out elsewhere, the management came to different insights. We have now had that other study submitted with a second opinion. Moreover, one of my services is also looking at this itself. We will then discuss this with LOFAR and ASTRON. We will then see what conclusions need to be drawn from this. In my opinion, ASTRON will present an opinion on the documents that I have now made available in relation to the wind farm De Drenthe Monden and Oostermoer. In dealing with this point of view, I shall deal with this matter in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u15	I asked if you could confirm the commitment you made in this Chamber in response to a question by Mr Flierman that it is a prerequisite that LOFAR will not be disturbed in his activities. As far as I am concerned, you did not give a direct answer. I would appreciate such an answer, all the more so because that commitment has already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u16	I said what I can say about that. I took my position on the basis of the position taken by the management of ASTRON. If there are further insights into this, I would like to look at it. If there is any interference, I will see whether it can be dealt with with with mitigating measures. Depending on that, I will be able to come to conclusions. I'm in that process now, so I don't want to get ahead of myself. It is not surprising that, as far as biomass is concerned, Mr Dercksen also comes to the conclusion that this does not contribute to CO reduction. He doesn't think that's gonna help. As far as anything contributes to CO reduction, it is nonsense, because CO does not need to be reduced at all. That's pretty much his reasoning. I think biomass does contribute to CO reduction. If anything grows, the CO is bound out of the air. If you use that then CO will be released again and you will have a cycle. Therefore biomass is considered as part of renewable energy. Internationally, it shall be considered as such. In the Netherlands, we have made the strictest criteria in the world for assessing the sustainability of biomass. We have put in place a unique control system, which is being further improved. With regard to biomass, we are also doing what is necessary to ensure that both biomass and wind at sea and wind on land can contribute to the most necessary transition from fossil energy to renewable energy, which the government is fully committed to and which we want to achieve in a way that will ensure that energy is sustainable, secure and affordable in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u17	The Minister has me high, because now he is suggesting that that was my ruling, when I have told him twice that it is a statement from the Academy. Maybe I have an idea of my own. If I repeat that twice, it may be, but it's not my thesis, it's one of science. I know the story that CO released by burning trees is absorbed by new trees, but science, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences and therefore not René Dercksen, thinks very differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u18	Mr Dercksen is still trying to give himself some authority by appealing to the IEA and the Academy. He thus suggests that his argument would be scientifically substantiated and supported by science. Of course, that is not the case at all. These agreements between 195 countries in Paris were made on the basis of years of scientific studies under the flag of the UN, in which everyone commented on each other and tried to convince each other. In the end, conclusions have been drawn from this. Not only by the Netherlands, not only by Europe, but by 195 countries. On the basis of these agreements and on the basis of European agreements, we also do what is necessary in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u19	Finally, on all those countries that are all in agreement. I have here an interview with Mr Samsom in the magazine of Milieudefensie. He says in that: we have to tell each other the truth about the whole fable of CO targets and coal plants. If you put three coal plants in the Netherlands and not Germany, the effect is zero. I do not know Mr Samsom as a rational man on this subject, but what he said here is what we are saying now. There are 1,500 coal plants under construction or planning worldwide. Then what is the point of putting billions in here to close a single one? That is what Mr Samsom said in 2009 and that is what the PVV continues to say in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u20	In his speech, Mr Dercksen focused on renewable energy, against attempts to prevent irresponsible climate change, first sought support from the International Energy Agency, then from the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences and now from Mr Samsom. What he is doing is selectively removing something here and there and trying to fund his argument. As far as I'm concerned, that attempt failed. We all know, of course, that a lot of coal plants are under construction in the world and that as a result, the CO emissions problem is getting bigger rather than smaller. That is also why all these countries have come together in Paris and said that it is no longer possible to do so. We must ensure that we reverse that movement, that we do not emit more CO but much less. This requires all kinds of measures. This will also lead to much more energy being generated in the future in a sustainable way and much less with fossil energy. Of these fossil energy carriers, coal is the most harmful to the environment. That is why attention will also focus worldwide on achieving the transformation that is necessary for the future worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u21	I have just understood from Mr Dercksen that he no longer needs a second term. So the Minister does not have a second term either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-22-eerstekamer-8.u22	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote directly on the bill, but not after I have sounded the bell. Everyone must be aware that there will be a vote.
