ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u1	I give the floor to Mrs De Caluwe on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. This does not seem to be the most exciting subject we are discussing in the Chamber this year, but it seems to be cheating. The law we are discussing this afternoon aims to promote market forces along the national road network. When auctioning a fuel point, it is important to create a level playing field so that there is fair competition. This is good for both entrepreneurs and consumers. It is a pity that the pump holders could not agree on the sharing of data on fuel sales. We would have preferred that. The VVD supports the idea of creating a level playing field. For this purpose, it may be necessary to provide data on the number of litres to be refueled at the pump. However, the legislative proposal before us is also about adding the so-called shop turnover to the items that entrepreneurs have to give up in the bidding book. That is why the VVD would like to talk about this bill here. This is not a good idea as far as the VVD is concerned. The shop turnover depends not only on the location, but also on the stakes, creativity and sales talents of the gas station tenant. This turnover does not directly say anything about the sales results of other potential tenants at the same station. Shop turnover is thus competitive information, which can boost the bids and ultimately also the prices for the consumer. A pump holder who manages to turn blood, sweat and tears into a well-run company can cut his fingers at the auction of his own location by his good results. The price is being increased, only large groups can still pay it and the higher price will eventually be passed on to the consumer. According to the VVD, adding the shop turnover is therefore not a good idea, especially for the smaller entrepreneur and the consumer. I have therefore tabled an amendment to this bill to remove the shop turnover from the bill. Then there's another point. As I said, creating a level playing field is very important for both entrepreneurs and consumers. If we are to achieve this, I think it is important that as many people as possible have access to the auction that this law is talking about. The cabinet has said that it wants to organise an electronic auction in order not only to avoid a low turnout, but also to auction a location for a low price. These electronic auctions should be organised from 2017, and that is almost it. I ask the Minister to speed up this process so that the next auction, scheduled for December 2017, can take place by electronic means. Both by organising the auctions electronically and by removing the shop turnover from the bill, the auctions will actually be able to count on a level playing field. In this way both entrepreneurs and consumers can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief. It has taken some time, but now we are dealing with the Supplementary Books Act. My group considers it very important that new entrants have sufficient information to make a well-founded bid. That is why we support this law. I have one wish, like Mrs De Caluwe, although it is heading in a different direction. We have tabled an amendment to include data in the bidding book per year rather than averages over the last three years. This also allows the bidder to see how turnover develops in those three years. I would like a response from the Minister to that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. I was preparing yesterday. I put that on Facebook and immediately got a reaction: you make laws about everything in parliament. Yes, I thought at the time, if it is necessary, unfortunately, because there is no voluntary agreement, we have to settle it by law. I regret, however, that a voluntary agreement has not been reached. The PvdA considers that prior to an auction all interested parties should have the same information relevant to determining the highest bid. As far as we are concerned, this includes the information mentioned in the legislative proposal on the number of litres of motor fuel sold at the location, the perseverance, the number of litres with a proprietary card, the card litres, and the turnover from the sale of products other than fuel, the shop turnover. We therefore agree with the proposal and hope that by legally anchoring it, it will lead to a fairer auction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u5	I was just talking about an amendment, but it has not yet been formally tabled. It will appear later under item No. 8, but I want to give it to the minister on paper now, so he knows what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u6	I'd like to take a look at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u7	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. Both Mrs De Caluwé and Mrs Fokke pointed out that the initial assessment might give rise to the feeling: why is a whole law needed for auctioning petrol pumps? Mrs De Caluwe herself gave the answer to that question: it is in the interests of the consumer that there is competition at the location of those petrol pumps. A motorist on his way from A to B doesn't travel all over the country looking for a gas pump. As a result, it is vulnerable to abuse of attractive locations. It is indeed a technical law but a lot of technical laws together make a country a good habitable country! I'm treating this law myself, I suppose the MPs are doing the same with pleasure. Mrs de Caluwe has tabled an amendment designed to exclude shop sales. It is the purpose of this law to serve the consumer. It is in the interests of the consumer that the auction should be given a strong bid, because then the bidders must also operate in a strong manner in their business operations. It is always in the interest of the incumbent party to provide as little information as possible. An experiment of thought: if there is no information available at all, there must be blindness and the chances of a real offer coming out are the smallest. Along that line of reasoning, I find it unwise to extract pieces of information from the flow of information. Shop turnover is indeed dependent on entrepreneurship, but I think that is what petrol turnover is. There too you have to make the well-known choices. That doesn't apply to the place, because it has to be auctioned, but you also have to make choices with your promotions and your petrol price. Therefore, I do not think it is in the interests of the successful conduct of the auction and thus of the consumer not to provide some of the information. I therefore reject Mrs De Caluwe's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u9	I thank the Minister for his answer. I am concerned not only with the interest of the consumer but also with the interest of the small shopkeeper. That little shopkeeper is the sitting shopkeeper the minister just mentioned. If it does well by providing clean toilets, good coffee and I know what else to make sure that people would rather stop at him than five kilometers away, then that might increase the price. This makes it very difficult for a small pump holder to play well in these bids. Especially for these large companies a location can be interesting and then one is also willing to offer a little more to get a location in their hands. It could be very difficult for the small gas pump holder. If you do it right, you will be punished by increasing the price for your location.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u10	We have had the ACM examine whether there is really any unreasonable competition-sensitive data if you were to provide that data on shop turnover. The ACM also concluded that it is important to provide all information for an optimal auction process. And again, I do not agree that petrol sales would not depend on entrepreneurship. You certainly have different offers in terms of price, stamps, towels and shells. Even the quality of the coffee and toilets influences, at least in the case of frequent drivers, the question whether they are filling up at that pump or at least a little bit further away. I fear that I am sticking to my line that for a good auction process, and therefore for the consumer, openness about all turnover data is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u11	The Minister talks about the shells and then you get to the big suppliers very quickly. That is precisely what I am concerned about, because there are a lot of medium-sized and large suppliers. The small suppliers and entrepreneurs who are not yet active in that market simply have some more difficult opportunities. That was the commitment of my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u12	The shells happen to be by... I don't even know if it happens anymore. I hope not, because I didn't think it was so nature-friendly. Anyway, the towels are indeed used by larger groups. Of course, this is not a reason why a local small entrepreneur cannot use a similar promotional tool. I stick with it, also hearing the ACM, that for the auction the relevant turnover data should simply be available. I therefore advise against the amendment. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8 submitted to include the data per year in the bidding book instead of an average over three years. An average is important because it produces crazy effects. There is no possibility of steering with that either. Reasoning from the bad in man, which fortunately does not occur very frequently but sometimes when money is involved, you can start to steer on a low turnover in the last year. With a three-year average, steering is not very attractive and you also get the fluctuations that can be there for other reasons, out of the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u13	I understand that you want to see a development over time and that is why the three-year period has been chosen. I understand. However, it saves whether the turnover goes down or goes up. That could be relevant to the bid. An average over three years makes sure that "the strange years," so to speak, have an effect. The purpose of this amendment is precisely to provide more insight into developments over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u14	With the danger of steering on it. I wouldn't underestimate that in processes where really substantial amounts of money are at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u16	That is why I also reject this amendment on balance. If I have understood Mrs Fokke correctly, she welcomes the fact that we are standing here and she is keen to see this law come into force. I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-02-tweedekamer-10.u17	This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill. We will vote on the legislative proposal and the amendments tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister.
