ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	Coming in is the next letter. "Dear President, dear Khadija, ladies and gentlemen, Sometimes you get these messages you write with a double feeling. This is one of those. After almost four years of being a Member of Parliament, I return to where I come from: the local government. I will be mayor of the municipality of Oude IJsselstreek. A beautiful municipality in the Achterhoek. The region where I live. On the one hand, I am extremely proud of my new position. On the other hand, it also means that I am unfortunately leaving you. I consciously took my step towards national politics four years ago. Not because I wanted to be a Member of the House of Representatives. It is because I had a "political bucketlist." Why do you choose those difficult words for me? "A list of things I wanted to settle and for which I had to be in The Hague. A lot of that list I've been able to finish. I wanted to offer space for more customization in the care and solutions of people and care workers themselves. I wanted health insurers and municipalities to work together on good care in the neighborhood. Above all, I wanted to make the Netherlands more accessible to the more than 2.5 million Dutch people with disabilities. Therefore, my highlight in the Chamber is undoubtedly the adoption of the UN Convention on Rights for People with Disabilities earlier this year. I could not have reached all these things without you, my fellow roommates. With many of you, I've enjoyed working with you very much. I would like to thank you sincerely for that. I'm by nature a polder boy. Someone who likes to work with others. However, the House of Representatives is also infamous for the Hague stuff. The focus is often focused on "emerging" problems. In my opinion, however, politics is mainly in favour of resolving it. Our society also craves sobriety and connection. Politics must set an example. A compromise is not only a necessary evil in our multiparty system. A compromise also has value in itself. It shows you're willing to listen to others. That fits our country's DNA and made it so beautiful. Maybe I already sound too much like good mayor. Many of you know that the local government has never completely abandoned me as a former alderman. I like direct contact with people. Municipalities also face major and important tasks. Ordering good care. The reception and integration of refugees. The municipality of Oude IJsselstreek is an innovative Achterhoek municipality where there is much to do. Also an incredibly beautiful and touristic municipality. If you are thinking about a short domestic holiday during the upcoming recess, think about a visit to the cultural factory in the industrial heritage of the DRU in Ulft, cycling along the Oude IJssel, a visit to Varsseveld or the town of Terborg." I think you have taken this line from the tourist guide! "As mayor, of course, I must also advertise for my municipality. You see, I'm doing quite well! I'd like to thank some of the people I've worked with. Of course, the employees of the House of Representatives. Without all these loyal and hardworking people, this Chamber cannot function. For me personally, it started when I came here and the room had to be modified because of my wheelchair. The drive of the facility service to ensure that I as a MP could simply do my job was enormous. That was also true for the messengers who pushed me up here in the plenary. Let that be an example for the rest of the Netherlands. Make sure everyone can participate regardless of their limitations. I would also like to thank the staff of Bureau of Legislation, the restaurant and security. The Chambers Company is a beautiful company with beautiful people. Of course, I would also like to thank my group colleagues and my direct colleagues. What extraordinary moments we have experienced! Finally, my wife Karin, who is always there for me, motivated me when I came home grumpy when I was struggling, or put me on the ground with both my legs when I was a bit too euphoric in a success. I'm gonna finish up. I want to thank you all. I'm gonna miss you. I'm gonna miss MPs. Even the sometimes, how shall I put it nicely,'special' debates in the VWS committee. I continue to work, also as mayor, on matters close to my heart, such as the pursuit of an inclusive society. I feel like we're definitely gonna run into each other. I look forward to it. I say for now: go well and have a nice summer recess! Sincerely, Otwin van Dijk'
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Dear Lord Van Dijk, dear Otwin. "The personal is politics"; this quote certainly applies to you as well. Your accident at the age of 18 has shaped you personally and professionally. You've always been very open about that. It confronted you with problems in care, problems that you could hardly believe and which you couldn't just put next to you, for example that you didn't get another, cheaper wheelchair because it wasn't in the package, or that your request for a transport facility to the university was rejected because you wouldn't get a job as an invalid anyway. It made you battleable and laid the seed for your commitment and focus. For you, upliftment and solidarity are your anchor points, the compass you sail on. Politics is there in your eyes to help people get stronger, by putting people into their own power, at the same time a solid safety net for when things go wrong. That ambition also came through during your aldermanship in Doetinchem. You were open to the personal stories of, I quote, "people who want to make some of their lives but who sometimes need a push in the back to get out what's in them or who need good care to grow humanly old." In 2012, you took the step towards national politics. Karin made sure you were always in the Chamber on time. She has always been and still is your support, as you said in your letter. Your environment changed, but your schedule remained the same. You became a member of the permanent chamber committee for VWS. The concern is a wonderful file, you said during your maiden speech about the change of the AWBZ on September 27, 2012. You added: it will be quite difficult. I think you've done an excellent job. You had to stand your ground in debates that, as you said yourself, were sometimes very special, especially in the VWS committee. You did, and you do it without polarizing. With you, the ratio often wins off the emotion, with one important exception. 21 January 2016 was a historic day for people with disabilities. After years of talk, the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities was finally ratified. In addition, a majority of the Chamber supported your proposal to legally lay down general accessibility. A special and emotional milestone, which in practice means making the whole of the Netherlands accessible step by step, so that everyone can participate fully in our society. I remember your joy and those of the people who followed the debate in the public gallery and who were so grateful that they grabbed and hugged you after the debate. Together with Linda Voortman, you filed a motion at the beginning of this year that called for all Lower House debates to be subtitled for people who are deaf or hearing impaired. You stopped that motion then, and eventually she dropped, but I'm still running her. The Report and Editorial Service will soon launch a pilot to subtitle oral Question Time live. If this proves to be a success, we can see if other debates can be subtitled as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	Where filed motions are sometimes not carried out or only with a great deal of pain and effort, the Chamber will work in the spirit of your unsubmitted motion. It may have happened more often, but it certainly goes into parliamentary history books. Since your entrance into the Chamber, steps have also been taken to make the building and the room more accessible. The chair has been given a kind of annex and the entrance doors to the plenary room are equipped with pushbuttons. I'm personally grateful for that, too. Dear Otwin, you're going back to your roots. For us a loss, but a great asset for Old IJsselstreek. In you, they find a driven, passionate, social and above all a warm person. Take care. I'll try to put it on his back corner: hold oe kreggel!
