ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The housing market has been locked for half a century. For 50 years, The Hague ministries determined where residential districts could be located and then decided exactly what could be built there. Central stock planning was what we called it. And the Dutch didn't have much to choose. When we finally buried that communist model, the financial crisis came and construction production stopped. It became harder and harder to get a mortgage. The VVD has a clear vision of the housing market. Anyone who gets a place in a big city today should be able to rent an apartment there tomorrow. And anyone who can afford a store tomorrow should be able to get a mortgage next week. We have done a lot in recent years to achieve that ideal. Customization begins close to people. Regional planning policy is now with provinces. Municipalities make their own living vision and conclude performance agreements. We have implemented legislation to make social rent truly social and we are working very hard to develop affordable free rent. And there will also be a scoop of money to tackle the problems in Rotterdam-Zuid. The housing market is doing very well and big investors are lining up to invest now. The biggest problem is the land issues. In various media this weekend we read that the province of Zuid-Holland and municipalities such as Rotterdam and Dordrecht are calling the alarm clock about a threatening housing shortage. The alarm bell ringing while you're talking about it yourself? With the VVD that leads to great amazement. That is why I am asking the Minister the following questions. What problems have been raised by the authorities involved that they cannot solve themselves? Why do large areas of explanation remain unused, such as Valkenburg? For what purpose do governments ask for financial support and how does the Minister assess that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde refers to a number of newspaper reports that were published following a consultation I had last week with the province board of South Holland and the number of municipalities in the Zuidwing van de Randstad. Such consultations shall take place annually. As far as I am concerned, the main theme here is the shortage of construction sites. The press release published by the province on this subject contains some of the issues raised, but certainly not all of them. That, in my opinion, gives a really wrong impression. The bottlenecks raised by the province concerned regulation and finance. As far as finances are concerned, I pointed out to the province that housing corporations in the Haagse-Rotterdam region have an investment capacity of 3.8 billion. That amount corresponds to 25,000 social housing units. On top of that, they own 26,000 already liberalised rental homes. If they were to sell them, the same number of new homes could be built or the existing stock would be better insulated. In addition, these corporations own a total of some 200,000 rental houses which, in terms of housing valuation, are actually part of the free sector in terms of total points. Even if they sold part of it, they would have enormous investment capacity. On top of that, I have pointed out that private investors are very interested in investments, especially here in the Randstad. Nationally, an amount of 6.5 billion is available. In short, money is not the problem; locations are. For example, Mr Van der Linde rightly points to the location of Valkenburg. That is a state property on which I like to see housing take place. In the conversation with the province and the municipality of The Hague, for example, I pointed out the newly sold Ministry of Social Affairs. As far as I am concerned, housing can take place there. The municipality deals with the conditions under which, but again imposes restrictive conditions. The same applies to the Binckhorst site. In short, there must be built in the southern Randstad. Finance is not the problem. Where the Empire can do something about regulation, I'd be happy to. I invited the drivers to give examples. It has a lot to do with its own zoning plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	I thank the Minister for his answers. I think we are in complete agreement that we need to build fast and much. I find it striking to hear that action is apparently being taken through the media and not at the board table. This story has not yet made it clear to me what the financial bottlenecks the municipalities are talking about. Are they in the social rent, in the free rent or in the buying sector? I heard the minister say there's plenty of money. What is the financial problem that the municipalities have? Is there anything not covered by the Municipal Fund? What do the municipalities themselves do? I believe that a separate land price is still being charged in the Drechtsteden for social rent. This is at the expense of families with their own homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	The bottlenecks referred to by the province and the municipalities were not clear. That's why we made a follow-up appointment. It has been agreed that the shortage of available land for construction will be filled in for some 40,000 dwellings in the coming period. That's where the county's in charge. In addition, I asked those involved to give a more concrete definition of the regulatory and financing bottlenecks. I have just outlined how much money is available. That money's stuck a lot now. I actually wanted to use the next year usefully to solve the problems, if they are already there, so that they are really going to be built.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thanks again to the Minister. We'd like to wait for the follow-up meeting. But let's not forget that these are homes for ordinary, hardworking people. They just want to live in a nice house in a nice neighborhood close to their work so that they can eat with their children at night. Those people want something to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	Does the Minister wish to respond briefly to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, I was expecting Mr Bashir, who is now standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	In four months, the elections will be held. Then we can take stock of the last four years. In the last four years, the rents have increased enormously and the waiting lists have increased enormously. Little is being built. This minister of VVD-huis is charging social tenants with 1.7 billion euros, which means that hardly any social housing is being built. Wouldn't it be more convenient if we returned that money from the social tenants to the social tenants, so that the rents can go down and so housing corporations can build again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	The balance sheet of this reign, to which Mr Bashir refers, is that the financial position of housing corporations is very, very strong. I shared that with the Chamber; Mr Bashir knows that. The investment capacity of the housing corporations amounts to around 250,000 social housing units nationwide. Of course, the amount can also be used to isolate the existing stock. This is often an even better use, but investment capacity is even greater than the expected demand for the coming years. So here too, money is not the problem in the housing market. It really is about making good choices. Housing corporations have to adapt their assets to the target group. There are too many expensive homes and too few cheap ones. They have to sell the expensive houses and invest the proceeds in affordable homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	I am suspending the sitting because we have finished Question Time a little earlier than usual.
