ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are having an important debate today. It is important for the Chamber, for Groningen, for the Wadden, for all those affected by gas extraction and for anyone who wants to get rid of the use of fossil fuels quickly. Welcome to this new climate! That's what NOS-weatherman Gerrit Hiemstra said at the beginning of this month after heavy storms over North Brabant and Limburg and Germany and France also faced extremely high water levels. It was not the first time that we had to deal with extreme weather and it is not the last time. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs is currently on his way to areas in Limburg where farmers have suffered a lot of damage from extreme rain and hail over the last few days and even weeks. Due to the extremely wet month of June in some places in the province of Limburg, 20 cm of rain fell in a few days, four times as much as usual in a whole month of................................................................................................................................................ This is a harsh blow to farmers and a small example of what climate change brings about. I live in South Limburg and this month I have also been with mops and buckets in the weather to make a flooded basement anhydrous. Fire and emergency services had to pull out dozens of times every day to help people and traffic had to be rerouted due to flooded streets. Welcome to the new climate! Why do I start my contribution to this debate on mining and gas extraction with a story about extreme weather and extreme rain? Because this illustrates why it is so important to get rid of fossil fuels as quickly as possible, which contribute greatly to global warming and climate change. We have brought about the misery of ourselves and we must solve the problem ourselves. The greatest challenge of our generation is to keep the Earth alive. That is to say, we must prevent the global warming from getting too far. The necessary adjustment of the economy is so drastic that it is comparable to the collapse of the Eastern European economies after the fall of the wall in 1989; this is what CE Delft rightly writes in a recent report. As the Eastern bloc had to adapt to a different form of economy and to live together, so will we have to do with all of us worldwide. We will have to shape our lives in such a way that they weigh much less on the climate, on nature and on the possibilities of future generations. There's no planet B, there's no exit. Keeping our earth viable is an overriding interest. All policies, all laws must be in this sign. We must test everything against this interest, too, or perhaps just mining. After all, not only does burning fossil fuels heat up our earth dangerously, its extraction causes great problems for nature, man, climate and the environment. Unfortunately, we have not spoken for too long about what the extraction of gas from the Groningen field actually meant for the people there. Now we are having a lot of debates on this, and that is only right. We are trying to solve the problems caused by gas extraction. It is, of course, everyone's aim to ensure that gas extraction or salt extraction or any other mining activity does not cause any problems. The Mining Act, as we are discussing today, does not appear to be an appropriate and complete instrument for this purpose, and we still need to change the law. The Mining Act is only a market organisation law. Under the Mining Act, permits are issued for experimental drilling, for mining or for the use of soil to store things as a waste pit, for example, waste water that causes so many problems and worries in Twente. The Mining Act aims only to ensure that the company has the exclusive right to extract gas or oil in a given area. That's what the Minister emphasizes every time. The safeguards for people and the environment, for example in view of the danger of groundwater pollution or the prevention of damage to houses due to soil degradation and earthquakes, are not at all included in the Mining Act. The test of activities on their effects on the environment and health is only in environmental and environmental laws. That's not what this Mining Act was designed for at all. The basis of the law is an efficient extraction of our mineral resources. According to the Party for Animals that is really the wrong starting point. What we see in practice is that licensing for gas extraction or salt extraction, and perhaps in the future also for shale gas extraction, is an automatism. In fact, permits under the Mining Act are always given. The Minister has no grounds for refusing the licence, lets be able to amend or withdraw a licence once issued. These are market organisation licences, but not licences which take into account the risks to man and the environment of pilot drilling or extraction. The Chamber has tried to strengthen this on the basis of firm advice from the Security Research Council. I shall return to that later in my speech. I'm gonna go check on the current permit. The market organization authorisation under the Mining Act is therefore almost always given. The same applies to the permits needed to be able to effectively drill, namely the environmental permit and in some cases a nature protection permit. They're usually delivered. It is very difficult to demonstrate that the intended drilling entails unacceptable risks. This does not happen in practice, or hardly does it. A company can simply drill for mineral resources that are all ours, for mineral resources that, when mining and using them, warm up our climate even further, for mineral resources that are under our houses and next to our drinking water supplies. These drillings have done an incredible amount of damage in recent years. Why, I ask the Minister, is we so much inclined to offer investment security to companies in our country and so little in terms of the safety of people and the health of our climate and environment that the political consideration of saying "no' to the application for mining permits is nowhere in this process? The Animal Party considers the whole Mining Act to be wrong, and that is not surprising either. The Mining Act of 2002 replaces, among other things, the Mining Act of 1810, which was introduced under the rule of Napoleon. Also in this Mining Act, as in the early nineteenth century Mining Act, it is mainly about the efficient extraction of fossil fuels. The Mining Act of 2002 is still a very conservative law. The biggest difference from the law of 1810 is that the old law was drafted in French and the Mining Act in Dutch. It is time for a new law, a modern twenty-first century law aimed at the future, aimed at keeping the earth viable rather than at efficient extraction, aimed at the transition to a sustainable energy supply. Let us therefore call it a transition law. Whether or not to win Dutch mineral resources can then actually become an informed decision rather than an automatic one. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this proposal. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Until there is a future-proof law, we will have to do it with this Mining Act. Today we are discussing two changes to the law, two changes with a long history. For decades, billions of cubic meters of gas have been extracted from the ground in Groningen every year. This is done to meet our addiction to fossil fuels and, at least as important, to fill the state treasury. For a long time, the safety and well-being of the inhabitants of Groningen have not been an important factor. The creed was "more," but it wasn't "safer." Physical damage to buildings, damage to emotional well-being due to constant stress and tension: in Groningen, gas extraction has left deep, deep traces. Unfortunately, she still does. Last year, my group was forced to use an amendment to the Mining Act, which was intended to prevent disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico, to do what the Minister had for years failed to do, namely to defend the interests of the Groningen people who are being held up by the NAM. The Groningers were saddled with damage to their homes and had to learn and fight for years to get that damage compensated. My colleague, Mr Ouwehand, together with colleague Jan Vos of the Labour Party, tabled an amendment to make sure that victims of damage no longer had to prove themselves that the damage to their homes was caused by gas extraction. The burden of proof would then be transferred to the NAM. That was only logical, since the NAM, who caused the damage, had left the people in the cold for years. Those people didn't ask for their house, that safe place they're proud of and where they put time, energy and money, to be damaged. The Chamber has been insisting for a very long time, since the original Mining Act in 2001, on helping those people and taking care of them. The government has always refused to do so. Even now, the Minister has ignored the wish of a broad majority of the Chamber. I'm gonna explain that. The novelle has completely stripped the amendment adopted, which, in the event of mining damage, placed the burden of proof on the causer. Of course, I have also read the opinion of the Council of State. There is no conclusive legal framework that states that there would only be a presumption of evidence in the case of many reports. It is up to the legislator to determine the scope of the law. Can the Minister confirm that? He now proposes that instead of the whole of the Netherlands, the impact area of gas extraction in Groningen should be eligible for reversal of the burden of proof. But what exactly is this area of effect? And why does the Minister want to designate this per ministerial arrangement, which in fact puts the Chamber out of play? If it is indeed based on already recognised claims of damage, is it true that the Technical Committee on Soil Movement estimates that this area will be very small and that this will also lead to great legal inequality? In a manner of speaking, people on one side of the street could call for compensation, but not their neighbors. If this assumption is correct, why did the Minister choose this serious restriction of the amendment? The Minister's solution now leaves far too many people in the cold. Together with colleagues from other groups, we have sought ways of getting as many people as possible under this reverse burden of proof. After all, all people who are saddled with mining damage have a right to be helped. The battle of the Groningen against the mighty NAM is an unequal battle: a battle by David against Golinam. Let us try to help David to force the giant Golinam to his knees. The restrictions imposed by the Minister on the reversal of the burden of proof really go far too far to achieve its objective. Today we are proposing a new regime, linking the reversal of the burden of proof to gas extraction in the Groningen field. After reading the history of this amendment, the next thing really has to be my heart. I hope that the Minister will be generous in his attitude towards the people who are being burdened with damage to their homes. Let's get the best deal possible for them, Minister. Only in this way can we implement the recommendations of the Research Council for Security and restore the broken relationship with the people of Groningen. Does the Minister agree with me? The Minister said that he embraces and accepts all the recommendations of the OVV. The amendment to the Mining Act, which we are discussing today, comes from this. But once again, the Chamber really had to take the lead, simply because the Minister is not speeding up enough. And here too, in anchoring the security importance, the better involvement of the local authorities and the extension of the grounds for refusal of permits, the Minister weakens everything. Why is that happening? I would like to thank my fellow Members for all the amendments they have tabled on these points in order to better safeguard the interests of public health, the municipalities, the waterboards, the provinces, our drinking water and, of course, the population. I would like to leave the explanation to them in a moment, but I say that I have co-signed the amendments with full conviction and that I hope for a cooperative attitude by the Minister. He is also the Minister of the Groningen. As a devil from a box we received a letter of amendment to the law last week, which allows the storage of CO in use in gas fields and which the Minister also wants to establish the security of supply in the law. This minister clearly does not want to say goodbye to the fossil economy. CO storage is not a solution to climate change. CO storage is an excuse for coal plants and other fossil industries to continue to emit greenhouse gases. It legitimizes their existence and legitimizes their survival. That's sticking your head in the sand. That's what lived in the last century. Every euro we invest in CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage), the storage of CO, is one euro less invested in new, renewable energy. The Minister now wants to get ROAD (Rotterdam Storage and Capture Demonstration Project) off the ground at all costs and even amends the law to push through a currently unproven technique, the safety and environmental risks of which are not known, at the expense of the taxpayer. The companies ENGIE and Uniper have built 3 billion in new coal plants, but they pay EUR 100 million in ROAD, less than 20% of the total cost. Is that right? Is it true that he himself invests 150 million and that the European Commission invests even more, namely 180 million? The tax reductions for companies that want to use gas off our coasts are apparently not enough as a financial injection for the fossil industry. This amendment will ensure that taxpayers pay for the storage of COvan coal plants via both Brussels and The Hague. This also involves direct State aid for the production of fossil fuels. How does this relate to the polluter pays principle? This principle is also embraced by the Cabinet. I propose that we stop paying the polluter's accounts through tax rebates, funding demonstration projects or whatever. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, because I am considering a motion on this point. Can the Minister also confirm that CO will be used to increase the pressure in the field in order to gain more gas? This will partly offset the temporary climate effect of that CO storage. Is that really a sensible climate measure? Not as far as the Party for Animals is concerned. I have an amendment in preparation to reverse the Minister's change in CO storage. CO storage is not a useful tool in the fight against climate change. The same applies to shale gas. The Minister has reluctantly agreed to a moratorium on shale gas extraction until 2020. At the same time, he opens the door to extraction by making sure that tests are carried out for scientific purposes. The law allows the Minister to exclude mineral resources from extraction per AMvB. I ask the Minister to say to the Chamber that he will not allow shale gas drilling at least until 2020 and to record it in such an AMvB. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The Animal Party has for years been pointing to the large emissions of greenhouses associated with the production of our food. Deforestation, fertiliser use for the production of animal feed, animal dragging, animal feed and meat all over the world, but above all the emissions of greenhouses from livestock, including methane, contribute more to global warming than all traffic in the world combined. Methane is a very strong greenhouse gas that does its destructive work in a short time. If we manage to reduce methane emissions in the short term, we will make a major blow to the climate. However, methane is not only a by-product of the meat industry; the largest proportion of natural gas is methane, i.e. more than 80%. And I said it's an extremely powerful greenhouse gas. It's tens of times more powerful than CO2. So it has much more impact on climate change. Like I said, methane is the main product of gas extraction. It must therefore be said that a great deal of methane escapes and that it enters the atmosphere when it comes to extracting natural gas, the same methane. How much methane escapes from gas extraction in the Netherlands every year? Does the Minister know that? If not, can and will he have it investigated? President Obama earlier launched plans to reduce methane emissions in the oil and gas sector by 45% over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Jan Vos wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u4	It's about that CCS. It is very nice to table an amendment on this and say: we do not want that. Sensitively, I can go a long way along with that. But even Greenpeace recognises that the capture and storage of CO will be necessary. Then where is the Party for Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u5	We don't think it's a good measure. It is not really a structural solution, because coal will continue to be used and we think that we should get rid of it. And that CO you're trying to store temporarily. COis a gas that's heavier. I mean to say it sticks when something goes wrong and the gas escapes. This may cause asphyxiation. So it's not like it's gonna blow up and get into the atmosphere. You're really playing with fire, because it could be a dangerous technique. The evidence for this technique has not been provided. In particular, it is an extremely expensive technique and it provides a safety valve, an outlet, to continue firing coal in coal-fired power stations, which we consider very undesirable. If we really want to get rid of these coal plants, we need to invest the money in alternatives instead of investing 500 million in the collection and storage of CO. It is not a real measure, but it is a sham measure, a pubic measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u6	CCS is not only used worldwide at coal plants but also in initial processes and at gas plants. The International Energy Agency (IEA), the United Nations and Greenpeace recognise that this technology will be urgently needed to prevent us from emitting too much CO and extracting that gas from the atmosphere in the future. Everyone recognizes that. The last argument is not reflected in your story. So it's very easy to keep this up, but I really don't think you'll be in reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u7	Is this a question or is this a thesis? I just extensively argued why I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u8	You may respond, but you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'll take it as a statement. Mr Vos does not seem to agree with me. I have argued that we are not finding a solution to the storage of CO. I have just said that it is a very expensive technique and advocates that the money that is available and that should be made available should be used to replace those coal plants. Put on renewable energy instead of patching up the old techniques.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u10	You want to explain something?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u11	Yes. Rewording: what argument do you want to show that you think you know better than the International Energy Agency, the United Nations and Greenpeace?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u12	It's an emergency. If those authorities say that we should take this emergency measure, I can say that we do not want that emergency measure to be taken, but that we want the money that would be used for it to be spent on real alternatives that we have something to offer in the future. We do not want to do anything to make sure that these coal plants can go crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u13	I do hear one-sided lighting, because it is only CCS that is involved in energy generation, but there are also a lot of companies that provide jobs that we need in the future. They make products that we also need in the future. However, they emit CO. That technique could be an excellent means of maintaining that activity and capturing CO. What is Mr Wassenberg's reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u14	We cannot prevent all CO emissions. I mean, you and I are also breathing out CO and activity will always be associated with CO emissions. What we have to do, of course, is tackle the most CO-intensive companies. Let's try to make it less CO-intensive. You say people make their money there, too. I can tell you that there are also a lot of people making their money and more and more people are going to make their money in the renewable energy sector. I believe that we should tackle the major CO emissions and make the techniques used less CO-intensive. That's where we're gonna have to put the money. Sustainable alternatives and renewable energy will also create a lot of jobs in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u15	I think we are getting a little closer together, in the sense that we both recognise that there is industry where there is employment and CO emissions and that it will always exist in the future and you have to do something with it. And then the VVD says that CCS is definitely an option, because it's actually shown by all the studies. You can't gamble on one horse at this time. You're gonna need the storage of CO. You're gonna need coal power plants. You're gonna need gas power plants. You'll need nuclear power plants and renewable energy. It'll be a combination. Mr Wassenberg said just now that it is a transition, a transition law. So for the next 30 years, we will need everything we can do to make the economy run.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u16	I agree with Mr Bosman that we will have to bet on different horses. We are. We can bet on the horse of isolation of houses, which is very important. We can focus on renewable energy. We can focus on making production techniques of the large CO emitters more sustainable, which reduces CO emissions, but CCS is not a solution for us. That's a fake solution. It's a temporary thing. It costs a lot of money and it creates a lot of uncertainty. So for us, CCS is no solution. Mr. Chairman. President Barack Obama earlier launched plans to reduce methane emissions in the oil and gas sector by 45% over the next ten years. In August last year, Minister Koenders of Foreign Affairs in Alaska, in front of President Obama, signed a declaration calling on oil and gas companies to join the Climate and Clean Air Coalition oil and gas cooperation; this is an initiative of the United Nations, governments, companies and NGOs to identify and reduce methane emissions. But who is missing as a member, despite repeated calls from the Foreign Minister? Shell is missing, the NAM is missing, the Gas Union is missing, so the causes of the problems are missing. How is that possible and what is the Minister going to do about it? Is he prepared to attach a reduction target for methane emissions to his agreement to the extraction plan for Groningen and to any other permits for gas extraction in the Netherlands? Then there is my final point: I see that I have a minute and a half to speak and perhaps a few seconds to pass. Above Groningen and Friesland lies a beautiful and unique nature reserve, the Wadden. This year, too, this area of exceptional beauty and value is threatened by gas extraction plans. Last year at Terschelling, this year at Schiermonnikoog. Our Wadden region is world heritage. Everyone who's ever been there even I as a Limburger have been there.In his heart we know that we have to leave this beautiful area alone. There's room for a sailboat, there's room for wadwalkers.I've been wadwalking there myself myself, but there's no room for a drill tower. World Heritage sites have cultural and natural values that are unique and irreplaceable. These areas are considered valuable to the whole world and it is considered very important to preserve them. Not for nothing does Shell even point out that some nature reserves are too vulnerable to extract minerals. The Wadden area and world heritage Wadden Sea are protected and appreciated, precisely because of that fragile nature. The decline in the soil caused by mining on the ground and the rise in sea levels due to climate change can have major consequences in this sensitive area. Mining activities are simply not part of the Party for Animals, but are not part of vulnerable unique and indispensable natural areas. We must therefore ensure that these drilling installations are not placed just outside the boundaries of protected nature reserves, for example near Terschelling or just near Schiermonnikoog. That is just outside the protection regime. And yet the risks to nature reserves are so great that my group says: we should not do that. I also propose to exclude drilling under Natura 2000 and World Heritage sites. Such a ban is in line with the existing policy of energy companies, which explicitly state that they are not looking for oil and gas reserves in world heritage and not to develop these stocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u17	I'd like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. I think I was originally scheduled for 22 minutes, but I'm not gonna make it. I need about three-quarters of a minute. In this way we can actually respond to the broad protest on Terschelling against the extraction of natural gas by Tulip Oil and on Schiermonnikoog against the extraction of natural gas by the French company ENGIE. I'm closing up. Fossil fuels like our Groninger gas should be left in the ground as much as possible. That is essential to stop the dangerous global warming. If we leave our gas in the ground, we do not have to continue to solve all the problems if we are already able to do so! We're gonna have to re-screw the gas extraction. We'll talk a lot about that. Making work on energy saving I just said to Mr Bosman: making work on the economy of the future must really be an absolute priority. I would like to hear from the Minister today how he intends to give a new impetus to this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank you for your compassion for giving me a little more speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. You'll only live on Schiermonnikoog or Terschelling. You can choose the city council there, but you have absolutely nothing to crumble in the milk if a test drilling or drilling is planned in a beautiful nature area on or near your island. You will only work there in the recreation and think: will the tourists still come when there is a drilling platform right in front of the beach? This minister says that he does not want to hear the advice of municipalities but also of the people who provide the water supply on such an island or in the province of Groningen. He doesn't care. If you've got some work to do up there in the high north, you report to the county and we'll see. Even the House of Representatives has said that she does not want drilling at Terschelling or Schiermonnikoog. The Minister has not responded to this at all so far. He didn't say, "That's not where we're gonna do it." Or you'll just stand there as a civilian in a lawsuit against the NAM. Then you'll have to prove that you've suffered damage, that it's caused by the gas extraction and that it's not the result of moles or late maintenance on the foundations. Or you're democratically elected to a waterboard and you're worried about inkling, bottom descent and the dikes. This minister doesn't want any advice from you about a test drill or about the gas extraction. We also read that people no longer have the right to live without damage. No, that has changed into "heavy damage" in the explanatory memorandum to this law. And what is "heavy damage"? Why don't people in the north have the right to just live without damage? What's the big reason this minister has to say: I don't want to hear from Schiermonnikoog, I don't want to hear from the people on Terschelling, I don't need to hear from those people on those waterboards? I have not yet been able to find a clear answer from the Minister. I'd love to hear that today. If the Minister comes up with the statement that it is so important for the Netherlands, that it is really a state interest and when he says: people on Schiermonnikoog, people on Terschelling, people at Boxtel or in Flevoland, the land interest is at stake and I come as a minister asking for something of your nature, your privacy, your foundations, your front door or your recreational work for the great interest of the Netherlands; then I am sure that people would think seriously: can we make that sacrifice? But this minister doesn't explain it at all. The only thing this minister says is: I have looked into the law and there is no basis in that law for me to say "no'. Then I have a hard time with this minister on the stand, because as early as 2013 a motion from my party was adopted with the support of a majority of the Chamber, which states that authorisation under the current law is so limited that it does not address the major interests involved in mining, both above ground, where people live and work underground, where our groundwater is. In that motion, the government was asked to prepare amendments to the Mining Act. At the end of 2014 that law will come to the Chamber; the Party for Animals also said it. Of course, we are all taking the opportunity to make changes to that. The House of Representatives adopts three amendments by a majority. We have debated this very well. Next comes an almost unexplainable administrative process with the First Chamber, with novelles and with notes of amendment. Today, in 2016, we are actually back to square one. There is no new grounds for change yet. People are still not allowed to speak to see if we can change this law at all, so that it is truly stable at this time. I'd like to know from the Minister if he thinks it's going to work this year. Today will also prove to be something else. I'm looking right at Jan Vos. He really has the opportunity today to reassure people on Terschelling, Schiermonnikoog and Flevoland about shale gas and gas drilling. I wonder if the pressure of the VVD Group and the pressure of the Minister is so high that the PvdA Group is not able to do so. Last time, the PvdA Group courageously said that we want to reverse the burden of proof, we want democratically elected municipal councils, provincial authorities and water authorities to be able to give an opinion, and we also believe that nature and the environment can be very important reasons for saying 'we should not drill here'. We are going to hear it today and if it is not today, then at the votes. I am sure we are all incredibly curious about it, if it is not today than in the votes. So, Jan, people are counting on you. I have prepared a lot of amendments, because I have had three years to think about where we could improve this law. One of them, I have already mentioned, is that secondary democratically elected bodies should at least be able to give advice. That doesn't mean you have to take the advice. This minister has power of perseverance in three ways, and I would like to confirm this later. The Minister puts the National Coordination Regulation in this law. That way the minister can just get over all the bodies. The Minister has the Crisis and Recovery Act. The entire Groningen gas area is already covered. He can go through with it. The government can always push through an emergency act, if it so wishes, especially if it is in the national interest. I'd like to hear a confirmation from the Minister that this is true. GroenLinks continues to believe that the opinion should be possible. Another reason why we want this so badly is that the operator must think harder, explain better, be more transparent and, if there is any damage, be clearer about how he is going to repay it. The operator must also give people the assurance that the money is there. I'm sure we all believe that the money is there at the NAM and Shell and Exxon. We find it difficult for the citizens, but at least the money is there. Suppose it does go horribly wrong, do these small organizations have that amount of money? The water companies ditto: no life without water and no agriculture without water. We must be careful of our water. That is why I would like to endorse Mrs Dik-Faber's amendment. The CDA has tabled an amendment on the limitation period, where you say at some point that there can be no more damage and the company is not responsible. I think that is a very good point from the CDA, so we also support that amendment. Then I come to the difference between damage and serious damage. I don't understand. I hope the Minister can explain that we must not harm each other throughout the Netherlands. In the north of the Netherlands, it seems that this should not be serious damage. I also do not understand what the Meijdam Committee recommends. They say "all Dutch equally safe," but meanwhile it is said: with gas extraction you can run the same degree of risk as in a storm, as if there were no storms in the north of the Netherlands. So the people there are twice that risk. They run both the risk of gas extraction and the risk of the storm that we have throughout the Netherlands. A storm is basically a natural phenomenon, but a gas quake is an industrialised activity that we people do themselves and which we can also say ourselves: we do not do anymore. Saying to the storm stop, that's only ever, I think I'll take a look at ChristianUnion and CDA somewhere in the Bible succeeded, but in real reality we can't stop a storm on the spot, while we can stop the gas extraction. I explained the grounds for refusal. I also do not understand why we have so far no legal basis for issuing an environmental impact assessment or, in any case, for assessing whether such an impact assessment is necessary. On 2 March 2016, the Minister said that he could very well imagine that this is necessary. My amendment gives him a hook in the law to do the same, so I wonder if the Minister has changed his mind about this by now. I am very sorry that we have been working on this law for three years and then, at 11 o'clock, we are going to have two rather large changes that we have not had a hearing and have hardly been able to speak to experts. I support the part of the Animal Party's argument about CO in still producing fields. I would also like to hear an explanation from the Minister on how we now know that this is necessary and that it can be done. Do not drill in a world heritage area and do not drill in nature seems totally self-evident to me. Waste water injections are not in the Mining Act, while everything you do with that deep subsurface is a risk. Why is wastewater injection not treated in the same way as another drilling or other activity in the subsurface? Why is there no level playing field with the rest of the petrochemical activities? There, what you're charging, just needs to be purified according to the laws and regulations we have on the purification of water. I'm gonna land on the fee for mining equipment. We heard the NAM say in the hearing: we generally pay farmers if we have to be on their land, if we want something underneath or if we want to put something there. In the law we have a right to compensation in case there is a windmill or a high-voltage boom. An amendment by GroenLinks wants this to be done in exactly the same way as something for mining. I assume this is something the Minister should be able to embrace without difficulty. We have often had discussions about salt extraction. I'd like to leave it for today with a request to the Minister. Part of our strategic oil reserve is in Overijssel. I have been told that it is about ten times Euroborg combined, so incredibly much oil. That leaks quite a bit, after it was first said that this could not happen in the Netherlands at all. In Germany, it's leaking. Then we were reassured that this could not happen in the Netherlands. Now Esso has quite honestly reported that 11,000 litres of diesel have already been leaked. Is the Minister at least prepared to freeze the permit space Akzo has to pump more oil into those salt caverns? That must be done until we know for sure that leaks cannot be done, and then we must not do it, or until the minister somehow has the technical certainty that it has leaked in Germany and in the Netherlands, but that the next piece of those salt caverns in Overijssel cannot leak. I have also asked the Minister earlier what the risk is of using diesel in salt extraction in the Wadden Sea, world heritage area. The leakage in Overijssel concerns the same salt caverne, the top of which dissolves and softens. Are we quite sure that this is not going to happen in the Wadden Sea? We also heard of the planned split-off of a permit only Friday. We've received that bill before. Then it was going to be a hammer piece. GroenLinks asked for treatment, but it didn't come. It's about this. We heard from the Animal Party that that law came from 2010. Then the ownership of everything in the ground was given to those companies. In the rest of the Netherlands, everything that's in the ground of all of us is together. But with these permits, that right of ownership was given away. In new places it is said: no, what is in the ground remains from the State until you have brought it up. Only then will you own the place. It's called the transitional right. This gives economic advantages to the owner of that licence. I can imagine you wouldn't change anything about those old permits, but if a company sells a piece of it to a new company, it would make sense if it came under the new regime. That also advises the Council of State. The Minister is now proposing not to do so. He wants to create an uneven playing field for new companies. If a company buys such an old licence, it has a lot more advantage than if a company acquires a new licence. The Minister can do it differently. That's what the Council of State says. If there are any unused edges to the NAM's license, then the minister can simply shrink that area. Pieces that the NAM doesn't use fall back to the State, so it's up to all of us. Whatever might be in the ground is all ours. If we want to spend that again, we'll do it on the new terms. I want the Minister to explain clearly why he chooses not to do so. The Minister refers in the explanatory memorandum to the Energy Report 2015. There would be an integrated vision of energy sources. I haven't been able to find that balance. Why, for example, is it essential to still use these small last dumps of gas for the Netherlands and thus make it much more attractive in this way? After all, with these old rights, they are worth a lot more. The Council of State also wonders whether this is not an unjustified state aid. I am very curious to know what 'competition' is saying about this and whether it is fair there. We have therefore also tabled an amendment on this at the eleventh hour. I'm here to promote geothermal energy. That technique is often used as an excuse. If this is what you want for geothermal energy, it must be possible for oil extraction as well. When it comes to waste water, we hear that argument very often. However, geothermal energy is operated in a closed circuit in which the same water goes down, rises up and goes down again. In the case of wastewater injection, water is brought up in one place. That is then transported either with trucks, or by pipes to another place, where it is then injected. That goes on the assembly line, by the way. In Twente there are 700 large tank cars a day that have to transport water from one place to another. So such a thing is not comparable to a gardener who just has a small closed circuit. I therefore ask the Minister what he can do to reduce the administrative burden on these small, sustainable geothermal projects. We need to be able to get these projects off the ground. I hear from the people who are working on it that one of the obstacles is the administrative burden. The operator who sets up that system has to jump through all those administrative hoops over and over again, even if he has already built such a system with the neighbours, with the people on the other side of the road and with people three villages away. Isn't there any way to certify that? I have also found a few points where I agree with the Minister. So I would also like to make a positive sound. I see the Minister laughing now. He's glad to hear I found a few things I like. First of all, I would like to mention the possibility of withdrawing or adapting existing licences. I am very pleased that the Minister is given that opportunity. Secondly, I would like to mention the better regulation of this law of safety on drilling platforms. I'm very happy about that. We must not forget that there is a problem in the North Sea if BP had in the Gulf of Mexico. Thirdly, I would like to mention the three-mile zone which has been enlarged to a 12-mile radius. I'm happy about that, too. Here and there, however, in the explanatory statement, the three-mile zone is again popping up. I'm gonna assume that's another typo. I would ask for clarification on that point from the Minister. I also think it is a very good idea to use this law to make it possible for mining companies to pay for their own inspections, or at least to pay for them. That is what my group has been advocating for some time now. If I understand correctly, we are paying 750 million to the SodM to carry out those inspections. These inspections have only one purpose, namely to enable the work of those mining companies. I therefore think that their contributions to these questions are justified. The Minister already sees him coming: is this perhaps also an idea for the nuclear power plant? For that one nuclear power plant, I think if you look at the entire security and the Nuclear Physical Institute, we'll spend even more. I have gone through most of my questions to the Minister. All I have left is a final piece. The entire oil and gas production is a finite task, a finite industry. We can end that painfully, you see all over the world happening with bankruptcies, sudden redundancies for the employees, uncertainties and changing prices for oil and gas, or we can make an effort to get it done in order by people on time to school and make sure we don't keep wells that no one knows where they are. Wells must be monitored for infinity. You can see that in the Gulf of Mexico, for example. Furthermore, we have to stop business in time. Actually, I don't see that happening. I see the Minister working hard on wind at sea, doing his best with wind on land and making it more and more possible on land. I have also congratulated the Minister on this on a regular basis. On the other hand, however, I do not see him thinking about how he is going to phase out oil and gas production. We signed a climate agreement in Paris, with which we can no longer raise all known supplies in the world. This also means something for familiar scraps of garbage gas in the Netherlands. We can't bring them all up. Where's the Minister's phasing-out plan? We're all building up security now, maybe a little late, but still. But this industry is finite. The Minister also acknowledged that. How's he gonna do that and then what do we do with the permanent monitoring? How's that gonna be funded? We see in Limburg, for example, that a long time after a company has ceased to exist or still has some activities, there is still damage. How are we going to repay them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. This is a legal process, and that is always different from a normal debate. Hopefully there will be business with the Minister today. But as Mrs Van Tongeren said, there are two factions of government that depend a great deal on the success of what the Chamber wants today. You can talk the blisters on your tongue here as an opposition party, but if you don't get involved, you won't get far. Anyway, that's reality and that's the game and that's how it's played. We'll see. My first question to the Minister is how future-proof this law is. It's a very old law, 1810. There are changes now, but the treatment is very much based on what is happening in Groningen now. However, it is wider. There's wastewater injection. There's storage of CO underground. There's salt extraction. There is shale gas extraction, which is still a bit above the market. So what is the future of this law? Is it a law without extraction, is it a law whereby it is caught up at some point in importance by putting it in? This is becoming more and more important. I am curious about that, as the starting point for this treatment. Then there's the concept of security. The explanatory memorandum to the law gives a rather detailed exposition on this, but it does not really make it clear what the concept means for the minister. I have previously tabled a motion asking for a proper definition of that. That motion was also passed, but I don't see the Minister coming out. It literally says, "It's impossible to objectify." Then, quite rightly, the distinction is made between being safe and feeling safe. If you are safe, you can fall back on risks, such as those set out in the Building Practice Directive. But feeling safe, that's where the minister stays far away. That is perhaps because of fear that if you are going to record it, it will remain so vague that all kinds of claims can be made in relation to matters that cannot be properly quantified. But I still find it difficult. When I look at what has been achieved in this bill of safety, I see a lot of things that can be done. The Minister can refuse permits, the Minister can intervene, but the question is whether that will happen. It's nice that there is that possibility, but I'm not very excited about the way security is secured in this bill. This was a key point for the Security Research Council. He actually said: record that and do so in such a way that a certain fear is taken away from the people of Groningen and indeed from the people of the whole country. That is what my next point is about. Groningen and also due to the problems with wastewater injection, the threat of shale gas extraction and the plans in the past with Barendrecht, a kind of national subsurface fear has arisen. That fear is felt quite wide. Then you can say that people worry about nothing, but that's just not the reality. You're gonna have to deal with that. I would like to start the debate with the Minister on how to do that. That fear is widely felt, and wherever there is a threat of extraction or a waste water injection, things are happening. Even the drinking water companies are much more activist than in the past, because they also see dangers for themselves, especially in groundwater extraction. If I go through the country in a moment, I think we should protect the entire Wadden region including the islands from gas extraction today. That is the firm conviction of the SP Group. Does the Minister agree? How does he see the future picture of mining from small fields? He just made a proposal on the Groningen Field. After the summer we come to talk about this. For the SP Group, the 12 billion cube, once proposed by State surveillance as a safe level, is still the end point. However, we are not having that discussion in detail here today. But how long are you gonna stay out of those little fields, winning that "junk gas" that Mrs. Van Tongeren was talking about? Do you really need to scrape that out completely, so that future generations who might need that supply again might not be able to get much more out of it? Then you should also look at what lives in Woerden and Oppenhuizen and at least have a vision of what you want with those small fields. The scraping out of the last cub is not the most obvious thing in our opinion. In view of this, I propose a zero measurement in an amendment. If extraction continues, if we do not find it desirable today, then a village like Oppenhuizen, which is close to a planned extraction point, will at least have a zero measurement, with a renowned team also giving advice on what the impact area of zero measurement should be. That is the first concrete proposal. I now come to the "probation of evidence," let me just call it that. This is, of course, based on an amendment tabled earlier by the Labour Party and the Animal Party, which has also been adopted here. I would like to ask Mr Vos further questions about this, but I do have one point. It's about the Groningen field, but how do you define the impact area? That is, of course, the essence of the story. Do you have to look at the Groningenveld, North Netherlands or the whole of the Netherlands? That debate must be held here, but I shall hold it until Mr Vos has spoken. The concept of an area of impact seems difficult to me. It may be difficult for a judge to really make it clear that certain damage could have been caused by gas extraction or by a quake caused by gas extraction. A building can stand far from an epic center and still suffer from it. If that area of impact is to come into the law, it must be done, as far as we are concerned, by means of an overall measure of governance and a monitoring procedure and not by means of a ministerial regulation, because Parliament can have too little influence on this. The old amendment, which looks at the legislative proposal that we discussed last year, I mean that the sub-amendment on the obligation to provide information was incorporated into the main law. It's a little toned down. The obligation to provide information was unbiased and has now been claused. I can agree to this if it is legally necessary, but I would like to hear from the Minister to whom this clause relates and to what extent we know whether the cause of the damage also provides the necessary information. If we only see what we get, then we do not see what we do not get. I want an internationally oriented, multidisciplinary team that will establish and implement a measurement programme. I will table an amendment to that effect. This team must determine whether a zero measurement is correct prior to a possible extraction and study the causality between gas extraction, soil movement of a different nature and damage. I tabled a motion on this matter two weeks ago and the Minister wrote a letter to the Chamber last week. I would like this to be enshrined in the law. People like Manuel Sintubin and others, completely of the NAM and the Shell independent people with great scientific status should be on such a team. As far as I am concerned, there is no role to be played by engineering agencies and research institutes which are pushing too hard on third-party income from the oil industry in particular. The amendment proposes that this team be attached to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement (Tcbb). This is not my express wish, because I do not really notice very much from the committee, but it seems to me that it is the simplest legal approach because the Tcbb has been incorporated into the law in several articles. In addition, I will propose in an amendment that a measuring programme using tilt sensors be legally established. I have tabled several motions aimed at setting up a wide measuring programme using tilt sensors; those motions have been adopted. But if I read the Minister's letter on the implementation of the motions correctly, they will not be carried out or left to the NAM. I'm not satisfied with that. Now that this lawsuit is taking place, I'd like to try to get this into the law. The whole program, the international team and the use of equipment that really says the most about the reaction of a building to soil movement, can initially be aimed at monitoring the typical Groningen constructions, with or without damage. This allows you to figure out how these buildings live, how those terpen break up and how the systems react to vibrations. The essence is the heterogeneity of the subsurface, the top layer of the soil and what is on it. This applies both to infrastructure and landscape features such as the terpen, as well as to the buildings and the way in which they are founded. Then it's not just a snapshot of the situation today, June 29th, but also about how the whole landscape changes because of these movements. These are earthquakes caused by gas extraction, the autonomous decline in soil and the reduction in groundwater levels. You cannot separate those three aspects, because they are also dependent on each other. You don't just lower the groundwater level; you do that because something else has already happened. It's a rule in the statistics that you don't have variables with interdependence explaining something with each other. This sounds very understandable, doesn't it? I come to the damage, an important point in this debate. The purpose of what I have just said is that we get a better idea of the causes of the damage and that people are getting closer to advice or a result that shows that their damage is really the result of natural gas extraction. The power of the quake plays a role, but the vulnerability of the object that suffers the damage, just as well. In the opinion of the SP, we must get rid of the concept of A, B and C damage of which the NAM and the Centre for Safe Living are operating; this is neither a legal nor a scientific basis. With the reversal of the burden of proof and the arrival of the arbitrator under the wings of the National Coordinator Groningen, there is now room to implement a two-sided damages protocol that complies with what the Civil Code and the Mining Act already offer. So we don't have to create a new damage protocol and lift it into the law; it's just making use of what's going on. But that's different from the A-, B-, C-damage story as it's built up. I'll plead for this, and if necessary, I'll file a motion. Now any citizen can go to court, but you don't see a lot of people do that or dare. If the Technical Committee on Soil Movement says during a roundtable discussion that people don't do it because it doesn't work or because the NAM is too strong, then I really have a big problem and some sort of substitute shame towards Groningers who at some point don't know where the hell to go with their worries and damage. I'm gonna go into a few things that are important after all. I'll start with the statute of limitations. What happens if the operator has left? That is already the case in Limburg, but at some point it will be in Groningen. Was there a fund formed during the ride? In Limburg there is now a temporary fund. Our ambition and intention is to legally anchor a guarantee fund for mining damage. That will also apply to Mrs Mulder; we should see how the debate is developing and whether we can work together. In addition, we want to remove the statute of limitations from the law. In a letter accompanied by a report from Utrecht University, the Minister writes that Belgium and Germany apply an even shorter limitation period, but in my opinion Germany has a so-called lex specialise for this purpose, which always compensates for damage caused by mining. I think the Minister wrote that to the Chamber two years ago. So that's a perpetual duty. So that's a point for me, and for the Minister, I suppose. I have tabled an amendment on this. We will see how that is appreciated. We have tabled two amendments on the duration of the licences and the extraction plan. The long-term extraction plan has now been in force for ten years. Given the stocks in the Groningenveld and the discussion about the other fields, it seems sensible for the SP Group to limit the licence to two years. We believe that a licence issued should be consumed within two years. Otherwise, you will have a kind of endless seizure of a zoning plan while the operator, depending on gas price and market, waits until the time is right to really do something. We therefore want to shorten this deadline. The last point concerns governance. I never know: is that a good Dutch word? What's governance? Is that the way the whole thing is run and run? The Security Research Council commented on this governance. It's pretty inimitable right now. It seems that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the NAM ultimately make up the service. Energy management The Netherlands, EBN, is still among them as a somewhat obscure partner in the gas building. GasTerra also plays a major role. You can see that, too. State supervision of the Mines is strengthened and made more independent. That's ahead of us now. I'm happy about that, but is that independence going to be big enough? I don't know if or not being a Zbo is really the bottleneck, but I'd like to talk to the Minister about that. Shell says the extraction can go up again because it saves the state so much revenue. Of course, that doesn't have much to do with the sense of security. The National Coordinator Groningen is a kind of puppet in legal terms, because he is not a competent authority. The people in the province don't know what the National Coordinator Groningen has or doesn't have control of. Furthermore, there are quite a number of committees and organizations around this, such as the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, the Committee on Soil Reduction, a committee on poignant situations and, in the past, the Meijdam Committee and so on. They all play a role, but the whole does not really give the impression that governance, to use that word again, is in order. I think it should be in order. I want to hear from the Minister when we can expect that. I have a motion for that. I would like to have an answer to that. If everything stays a bit old, we'll get the book De Gaskolie II. Then everyone still hits each other on the shoulder, like: I'll scratch your back, if you scratch mine. We need to get rid of this bullshit. It just has to be a whole different picture. If you just let the whole gas building explode and you put something back in front of it that people say "this is good and is transparent; we can get away with it over the next few years," then you really have overcome some of the psychological problems or fear. I really want to rethink this to the Minister. It's not the first time we've talked about this, but today we can really make some progress. Actually, it was. I have some time left, but I'd like to give it to the others. With this whole Mining Act we must realize that we are not moving from a normal to a lamentable situation because we are off the gas; we are just switching from a luxury situation to a normal situation. I know it's gonna cost the treasury money if we keep lowering the extraction, but we're running out of gas anyway. And what we're leaving at this low gas price isn't gone either if it's ever needed somewhere in the distant future. In terms of the longer term, therefore, it is probably more economically useful to leave the gas than to take it out now. It sounds a bit bold, but I wanted to give this longer-term economic vision to the Minister, insofar as it impresses him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today, we will better anchor the position of citizens in the Mining Act. That is of course good news after all the misery in Groningen, but also in Saaksum, Oppenhuizen, Terschelling, Woerden, Limburg, Overijssel and so on. Places and provinces are often the direct object of decision-making over the heads. Every time the business interest appears to win, while ordinary people get hurt and inconvenienced. The safety and health of citizens have been affected by earthquakes, soil degradation and pollution. These same citizens feel powerless against a company like the NAM and against the government. However, there is an even greater question over this debate: how long do we hold on to our old fossil economy? Today, during this legal process, we are going to better capture the interests of today's people. But what about the interests of tomorrow's people, of our children and grandchildren? The Christian Union wants them to live in a Netherlands without pollution and fossil energy. The stakes are more renewable energy, but we can't do that without an exit plan for fossil. It is not enough, then, to work on a number of safeguards in the Mining Act; that is actually a back-guard discussion. What is needed for this is to really reduce the extraction of oil and gas in the Netherlands and no longer allow new extraction sites, in order to shift public and private investments from fossil to clean. The next generations will then double their profits. Firstly, this is good for the climate, the environment and a healthy living environment. Secondly, this is inevitable for our economy. The fossil economy is a dead end. Investors are increasingly withdrawing from fossil investment. Oil and gas are part of the economy of the 19th and 20th centuries. We are in the 21st century economy: a clean and circular economy. The cabinet hasn't acted on that yet. Companies are still allowed to do drilling and test drilling, as in the Wadden region. If it's up to the cabinet, Shell and Exxon, we're gonna pump the Groningen field all the way out. Gas extraction in new fields in the Netherlands is even stimulated in the context of our interests in the gas roundabout. How much longer does this minister hold on to the old fossil economy? Oil and gas extraction should henceforth be "no, unless' instead of "yes, if'. There should also be a moratorium on new mining sites. Furthermore, the Christian Union believes that there should be a check in the law: what impact on the climate occurs when all oil and gas from a given field is burned, what greenhouse gas emissions occur when the field is produced empty? I am considering an amendment on this point. The Minister does not want to give priority to renewable energy over fossil energy in the subsurface. Why not? Why doesn't geothermal energy automatically go before gas and oil extraction? The Christian Union calls for a priority to be given to sustainable subsoil. The extraction of renewable energy must always go before the extraction of fossil energy. I have prepared an amendment to that effect. The Christian Union considers that companies engaged in mining activities are fully liable for possible consequential damage to houses, loss of value of homes, environmental damage and so on. So they should not pass things on to others or to society. In practice, this often pinches. For example, the standard is not a zero measurement of the state of housing, which often leads to discussion about structural defects or other causes. At the Bergermeer has worked with a claims agreement in advance, but in Drenthe this variant is not used again. It seems to me that it is a good and clear agreement to lay down a company's liability in advance. Does the Minister agree? I think Mr Smaling has just said that he is preparing an amendment on this point. I see him nodding. I'm very interested in that. I am extremely pleased that my motion on one window for damage is being carried out, not only for Friesland but for the whole of the Netherlands. I thank the Minister for that. However, it is now a question of implementation. The counter must do more than simply point forward so that people are not still sent from the cabinet to the wall. It is also a question of cooperation between authorities. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Then I come to an important point, the reversal of the burden of proof. For the Christian Union, reversal of the burden of proof is an important part of the law. As in the countries around us, the burden of proof must lie with the mining companies. Why does a resident have to show in cracks in the wall that they're from gas extraction? The Minister now opts for a limited interpretation of the reversal of the burden of proof. This soon has the risk that it is only about the limited contours in Groningen, which are not intended at all to map damage. What about damages in the province of Friesland, Drenthe, Overijssel and Limburg? I understand that it is difficult to further broaden the reversal of the burden of proof, but I would ask the Minister to do so. I also refer to the earthquake chamber at the court in Groningen, which the Christian Union and GroenLinks have previously called for. Isn't that also where a weighting is made if a case is suitable for the earthquake chamber? Can we put this earthquake chamber in a position for legal proceedings surrounding the reversal of the burden of proof? With a letter of amendment, this week the Minister added security of supply for the low-caloric gas from Groningen as an important consideration in the Mining Act. He mentions households and companies in the Netherlands, Belgium, France and Germany. I still have a lot of questions. I see the amendment of the Mining Act as strengthening the position of the people in Groningen, and with them of people in the Wadden area and elsewhere. By explicitly defining security of supply as an interest, we are going in the opposite direction again. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The security of supply must never be an argument to keep gas production irresponsiblely high. I also refer to the recent past, in which security of supply has been mentioned every year as an argument for keeping the gas tap wide open. Every year a lot more natural gas was produced than needed. The recent cabinet decision to reduce the extraction ceiling to 24 billion cubic metres is in fact a confirmation that the previous quantities of 35, 33 and 27 billion cubic metres were too high. These quantities were not necessary for the security of supply, while at the time it was claimed otherwise, also by the Minister. We will undoubtedly be discussing this at length in September. Another passage in the law made my eyebrows frown. The law lays down a system of national coordination for the extraction of mineral resources in the national interest. The explanatory memorandum states that mining activities are of national importance because of the state ownership of minerals and the state revenue. Why is there a need for a state coordination scheme based on the importance of state revenue? I thought, following the report of the Security Research Council, we had concluded that it was not a matter of state revenue but of security? Does the Minister intend to abandon this weighting? The legislative proposal sets out the new provision which requires companies to prevent serious damage to buildings and infrastructure. The risk assessment shall specify the extent of the risk of serious injury. But why should this only be indicated for serious damage and not for all damage? Does a crack in the wall fall under severe damage? Why do we consider a risk of "ordinary" damage acceptable and do we not need to make this explicitly clear? I tabled an amendment together with Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Wassenberg to remove the word'serious' from the law in order to strengthen the precautionary principle in the law. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this amendment. The Christian Union wants a broad balance of interests to be achieved in the granting of the licence and the number of grounds for refusal and withdrawal to be increased. In fact, not only should there be an EIA, but there should also be a human impact assessment and a social impact assessment: a test on the environment, man and society, three times'm'. Think of the protection of health and nature. In addition, the Minister should be able to impose restrictions in the areas of nature, health and the environment in the case of permits and extraction plans. That is why I co-signed the Van Tongeren amendment on this. My name is also under the Van Veldhoven amendment with the aim of not allowing drilling in the Natura 2000 area or in the World Heritage Site. I am thinking in particular of the Wadden region. We shouldn't want to allow drilling in that area. The Christian Union welcomes the fact that, following the advice of the Research Council for Security, governments are also given an advisory right in the law. However, not all areas of government are given a right of advice. In addition, there is usually a step-by-step right of advice, namely through the province. Why does the Minister not opt for a more direct advisory right for municipalities and water boards? The deadline within which governments have to react is eight weeks. Is that term long enough to make a proper analysis of your own? What does the Minister think of the idea of starting a preliminary consultation on the extraction plan, similar to the General Environmental Law Provisions Act (Wabo)? Protecting our drinking water resources is of great importance. The drinking water companies, in particular, can provide good advice on the effects of drilling on essential drinking water areas and the quality of our drinking water. I have therefore tabled an amendment together with other parties with the aim of giving drinking water companies through the province an advisory right to licences and extraction plans. The Research Council for Security recommends that responsibility for gas extraction in Groningen should be better distributed within the government because the power is too concentrated and the gas building is too closed. The Minister opts for a number of small measures in the bill. The Christian Union has previously called for State control of the Mines to be placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. This would remove the surveillance at Economic Affairs, which is part of the gas building. In other areas too, we have invested environmental monitoring at I and M. Think about monitoring our nuclear power plants. I and M are also responsible for monitoring and enforcing the Environmental Law and Structural Visions. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. It is well known that the Christian Union is against shale gas extraction in our country. In our view, this does more harm than good and causes a major nuisance to the environment and has irreversible consequences for the subsurface. We have often discussed this with the Minister. Trials at Boxtel and in the Noordoostpolder are on hold, but these remain above the market. Therefore, the Christian Union now wants to legally lay down that shale gas and shale oil extraction is not permitted in the Netherlands. I am preparing an amendment to that effect. The law still distinguishes between test drilling and actual extraction. Why should we allow a test drill if the licence for actual extraction cannot continue, for example for environmental or health reasons? Would the Minister like to have an E.R. done in test drilling too? I'm coming to the CO storage. The letter of amendment extends the scope for this. CO can also be stored in a field still used for the production of oil or gas. The Minister sees this storage as an important part of climate policy. However, the Christian Union is still waiting for a coherent package of measures on the Urgenda case. Why is this suddenly being highlighted as an important part of climate policy? Why is the Netherlands spending EUR 150 million on a CCS project, the storage of CO in the subsurface, which costs a total of EUR 0.5 billion and which also maintains a coal power plant? Moreover, the net effect of the coal power plant in combination with CO storage is grossly disappointing. Only 15% of total emissions are stored. I also have many technical doubts about this change of law. What is the risk that more CO2 will rise when oil or gas is produced than is put into the field? Is it true that the injected CO2 is mainly used to increase the pressure in the field with the aim of extracting more oil and gas and, if so, what is the net effect on the climate? I'm rounding up. Today we are talking about a law that dates back to Napoleon's time, with a history of fossil energy. It is time to shift the focus to clean forms of energy. This will include a new name: the Sustainable Soil Management Act. Is this not an opportunity to change the name of the law to mark the radical change of course needed in our energy supply? Not only for ourselves but also for our children and grandchildren and for the preservation of God's beautiful creation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. As colleagues have already said, the Mining Act we are discussing today is an old law from 1810. At that time, the Netherlands was still full of windmills and man had not yet achieved climate change. How different is that now? After the Paris Agreement, we need to re-examine a large part of our policies and legislation to see whether all the signals or decisions we make are consistent and coherent and point in the same direction. The amendment of this law comes at a very good time. This law was mainly a market organisation instrument with the aim of ensuring that mining companies could earn back their investments and that gas, salt and coal would be extracted from the ground, but in our crowded country mining is increasingly competing with other applications: groundwater, drinking water and nature conservation. The objectives of the law are still very strongly focused on a fossil future and not on the energy transition. And of course: the earthquakes in Groningen show that large-scale gas extraction has enormous consequences for the environment and that it can endanger the safety of local residents. That has been denied for decades, but since Huizinge we can no longer ignore it. A lot of steps have been taken since then. This recognition now includes the amendment of this law, which should no longer be effective extraction but safe, clean and efficient extraction. In my speech, I will deal with the following points: the grounds for refusal of authorisation, the protection of the most special parts of our country, the Natura 2000 sites, groundwater, the participation of municipalities and waterboards and the strengthening of the position of victims by reversing the burden of proof. First of all, the grounds for refusal of authorisation. A mining permit can now almost only be refused on economic grounds, for example if a mining company does not have the necessary funding. If that economic condition is met, a permit must be issued and it is not actually possible to withdraw it. But when we decide on a mining project, economic feasibility must not, of course, be the only precondition. It's supposed to be a social wage. Profits must therefore be weighed against the cost of safety or nature. The protection of these aspects must in any case be ensured. In the old law this could not be done and mining in the Netherlands seemed to be a kind of self-provoking train that no one could stop. We have often had discussions in the Chamber with the Minister about whether or not certain drillings were sensible. And then the minister always said, "I have no choice." Well, we have to get over that. My group is therefore happy to sign the amendment to supplement the grounds for refusal with criteria for safety, health, nature and the environment. I am very pleased that the honourable Members concerned have tabled this amendment, because I wholeheartedly support it. The Minister is now choosing something else with his change of law. Safety will become an additional ground for rejection, but not, among other things, nature and the environment. I find this really incomprehensible in the light of all the discussions we have had and the importance of ensuring that these aspects are properly safeguarded. The Minister is now creating a system in which nature and the environment are taken into account through the Structural Vision Underground. But what's this Structure Vision Underground gonna look like and when's it gonna come to the Chamber? Will there be specific areas in the Structure Vision Sub-area in which mining permits are excluded in advance? So how are the criteria for this? Then what do you do with all those areas where you don't rule it out? Then how can you make sure that you can take that test, that after weighing up those commercial interests against the other interests, you can decide whether it is wise to issue a permit for that? And what do we do in the meantime? We're adopting this law now before we've passed everything else. So what do we do in the meantime? I believe that we in this Chamber all felt the inconvenience of the permits granted for new drillings just before we started to deal with this law. We are creating a new situation if we do not now include in this law all the grounds that we say: they must be part of the balance in the Netherlands whether or not we are going to issue permits. The link between licences will become crucial in the near future. The permits for detection, the environmental permit, the extraction permit and the extraction plan are now in succession in terms of time. All these permits are sometimes subject to the same criteria, but sometimes some licences are subject to different criteria. If you now work with one clear balancing framework, that is unambiguous and efficient. This could also save you costs, because your research that you do at a certain stage can then use again in a subsequent phase. Is the Minister going to impose a coherent framework of requirements on a mining company? And if, for example, there have been no changes in the security situation, can they re-use an investigation they have done before? If we streamline that whole process by applying a single set of criteria, that could also be an advantage for companies who know exactly what they need to meet. The Mining Act is intended to become part of the Environment Act in the long term. After all, it is all about the use of space. Isn't it convenient to have permits for the Mining Act and for the Environment Act run at the same time? A mining permit is then given simultaneously with an environmental permit. Then you make sure that the different criteria can be assessed at the same time and in coherence and that it is clear to everyone when extraction will actually take place. Otherwise you run the risk that someone has the right to do a mining activity in a particular area, but that they do not get an environmental permit for that. Then there is already a right in that area and there is nothing else you can do with it. It really only makes sense to give that right if someone can do something with it on the basis of the activities he would like to carry out in that area. That is why this coherence is very important. Then Natura 2000 and World Heritage. The Chamber has already adopted two motions against gas extraction in beautiful and fragile natural areas near Terschelling and Schiermonnikoog. Those are beautiful areas. The Chamber has said that there should be no mining installations in these beautiful natural areas. What has been unsatisfactory for my group is that there seemed to be some kind of ad hoc decision-making. It also creates legal certainty. We must give a clear picture of where we want it and not in the Netherlands. This gives legal certainty to residents and mining companies alike. Everyone benefits from that. Some natural areas have a special legal protection status, such as the Natura 2000 sites. That is a technical term, but those are the areas we have said in Europe: this area is so special; it is important not only for the country where the nature reserve is located, but it is of European quality. I also mention UNESCO World Heritage Sites. They are so special that we say to each other: this is important for the whole world. I know that there are a lot of discussions and sometimes they are also justified on Natura 2000 sites, but since you can also do well from a location just outside such an area, I wonder why you would necessarily want to keep the possibility of putting a drilling tower in the middle of a vulnerable area. My group will therefore table an amendment to exclude the placing of drilling installations in Natura 2000 sites or world heritage. We therefore deviate from the position of the Party for Animals, because we are open to laying down rules on how to drill under these kinds of areas, provided that this has no effect on the nature quality that you want to monitor in that area yourself. A very special orchid probably doesn't suffer from drilling at 4 km depth. We do not want to rule out such possibilities. We'd like to rule out putting such an installation in the middle of such an incredibly valuable area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u23	I would like to say a few words about Natura 2000. It is intended that everyone understands that it is a special nature reserve and that it has a special value, but that does not rule out everything. It doesn't mean that nothing can be done at all, even though it is becoming more and more the image. I live in Zeeland myself. There's the Westerschelde. The Scheldt estuary is unique in Europe. That is also a Natura 2000 site, but it has a nuclear power plant in it. We have a chemical industry there. We have three ports there, including the port of Antwerp, about the third port of Europe. It is now proposed to rule it out altogether for mining activities. There will then be a build-up in Natura 2000 sites. Why would you do it that way? Why doesn't Mrs Van Veldhoven just say: if it happens carefully, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u24	At Natura 2000, it is not necessarily the case that nothing should never be done, but there is always a heavy consideration, namely whether or not to do it. Then the question must be whether you have any alternative. There is a very good alternative, that is to put it just outside and then possibly drill from the side. I wonder why we shouldn't. At a port you have no alternative, but if you still want to use that port, you have to compensate. Mr Bosman knows that too, because we have had a lot of discussion about this in the Chamber. We had to depolate the Hedwigepolder to compensate for the damage we do to nature. We know very well that the Netherlands is far from complying with the agreements we have made on the protection of nature. We are far from complying with international agreements. If we can say about something with little difficulty that this does not cause any additional damage to the natural areas, why not? You can choose to place the drilling towers not in the middle of such a vulnerable nature reserve, but at a distance from it. Then why wouldn't you? Why would you want to keep the possibility open to additional damage to nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u25	I turn the question around: why would you insist on banning it if you can be careful? There's a heavy test. Care shall be taken in this regard. In fact, there are already drilling activities in all kinds of areas where we have learned a lot. We can see that it's going well. Why are you turning it around and shutting it down? That is a matter of concern to me. If there are alternatives, companies will definitely use them. Those alternatives will also be included in the permits, but why rule it out in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u26	We would like to rule it out because it concerns damage that does not need to be done. When a large industrial plant, a drilling plant, is installed in the middle of a very sensitive area, this always causes damage. They're not just areas. These are areas where we have said together in Europe: these areas are very important, not just for the Netherlands but for the whole of Europe. All countries have been asked to protect nature in these areas in particular. If there is a very great social interest, you may deviate from it, provided you compensate it. If there is a good alternative, i.e. by putting things aside, why would you want to explicitly keep open the possibility of setting up a drilling plant in the middle of that sensitive area, in that European-value nature reserve? There's a good alternative. That's why I'd like to rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's a nice proposal, but I'm going to compare it with some other options. It is clear what the Wadden region is for us, including the islands themselves. But what Mrs Van Veldhoven is proposing is something I run into. Certain parts of the North Sea also belong to Natura 2000. Are they included? The Green Heart and Súdwest-Fryslân were in a previous period, when we were still doing spatial planning, national landscapes, so no Natura 2000 sites. We'll drill right next to the built-up area. This is one option, but a few other options are against it. How does Mrs Van Veldhoven feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u28	D66 does not want to exclude all mining activities in the Netherlands by definition. I do think we should look very carefully at where we do and do not do it. Focusing on two clearly defined categories of areas gives legal certainty to everyone. About these two categories we have said together that they have a special status that even exceeds the Netherlands. They are of European quality. They are part of the European treasury or even part of our world heritage. By the way, the Wadden region falls within these two categories. Let's protect those areas. Let's just say we don't do it there. For all other areas, my group wholeheartedly supports it when nature, the environment and safety become grounds for consideration when it comes to whether or not to do so. You'll make some kind of pyramid. Certain areas are excluded, because they have so much natural value and because there is a good alternative.... that we say: we don't put a drill in the middle of it. As far as the other areas are concerned, as far as my group is concerned, the important test on nature, the environment, safety and health must always apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u29	I still think it is sympathetic, but for me it is also an alternative to simply reducing the extraction in the small fields between now and a point in time. We can discuss this. Let us also limit it to areas which are not close to a built-up area. This has a bit more relevance for residents than the Natura 2000 area. I would like to insert that option in Mrs Van Veldhoven's report. These Natura 2000 sites are scattered all over the country. Sometimes they're very small; a stamp. Whether that's the best geographical definition... There is also a fitness check in progress on the European Birds and Habitats Directive. So you can question its permanent nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u30	I fully understand the objections raised by Mr Smaling when he talks about gas extraction, and the concerns people have when there is a plan for gas extraction close to where they live. That is why it is so important that we look very closely at what it means in that place. If you follow that line, you have to rule out the whole of the Netherlands at once. My group does not want to go that far at the moment, but I can imagine that Mr Smaling is looking at how far he can get in the Chamber. However, my group does not go that far. What we do want to do is to protect those special natural areas, which form a clear category. In addition, we still have the test of whether people's health and safety and the environment in the immediate vicinity are being properly handled. I wholeheartedly support that test. I think I just indicated that. But let us give this additional protection to the Natura 2000 sites. An amendment has been tabled for this, or at least in preparation. Mining can have harmful effects on groundwater quality if wells leak. For example, salt extraction in the Twente-Rhine area has caused a contamination which could have been undetected for a long time. In order to detect this type of contamination earlier, I, together with the CDA, propose an amendment aimed at requiring companies to monitor groundwater before, during and after mining activities. The Minister wants to allow the storage of CO in a gas field, while gas is still extracted from that field. The main aim of this is to get the ROAD project off the ground. Let me be clear: in all the scenarios of the energy transition, the storage of CO plays a role, and so we will have to develop it. The combination with a coal power plant for the final use of that technology would I find totally stupid, but for certain industries, which actually have few alternatives, it might be a way of achieving CO neutrality. That is something that we will have to achieve with each other. The Minister assures the Chamber that CO may only be stored in a field from which gas is extracted, when safe. Can the Minister explain why he considers this to be the case in the present case? Has an independent party also considered that we can actually store CO without any negative consequences? How are companies supposed to prove that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u31	I have a question about mining activities in Natura 2000 areas that Mrs Van Veldhoven is talking about. Does she think that these Natura 2000 sites are so important that windmills should not be built there? That, of course, is also a ruin of the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u32	As far as my group is concerned, windmills are also affected by the fact that they are preferably not located in Natura 2000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u33	I am not a spokesperson I and M, but I have been told that IJsselmeer is also a Natura 2000 site. That is where windmills are being built and I think I have never heard D66 protest against it. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u34	I didn't say "preferably" for nothing. Sometimes there's no better alternative. I do think that you should make a difference between setting up an oil drilling platform, which is all fossil, old economy, and which poses an additional threat to the nature that we want to protect in those areas, and on the other hand a technology that contributes precisely to the future, in which nature has better opportunities. That is why I think that the balance is a different one, but I understand Mrs Klever's question, and it is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u35	It is therefore not a question of the principle that D66 does not want to have activities in Natura 2000 sites. If it is activities that D66 does not support, it should not be, but if it is activities that D66 supports, such as windmills, then D66 is totally okay with a Natura 2000 site being filled with them. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u36	If Mrs Klever has just listened carefully to my little debate with Mr Bosman, she has also heard me admit that things are still possible in Natura 2000. The entire Westerschelde is a Natura 2000 site in which all kinds of activities take place. We just have to consider each time whether something is socially responsible, yes or no. To some activities you say yes, because their social importance is very great or because you have no alternative. You say no to other activities, because there is a great alternative. As far as D66 is concerned, there is a good alternative in this case. If you really want to drill for gas, you just do it a little bit further away and don't put such a drill tower in the middle of a vulnerable nature reserve, apart from the fact that people just like to walk there, walk the dog, cycle or picnic with the children. We prefer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u38	Then I'm gonna get to the say-so. The Research Council for Security looked at the gas extraction in Groningen and found that the voice of the people was not sufficiently taken into account in the decision-making process. There's gotta be another way. The Minister now gives provinces the opportunity to advise on search permits, but municipalities are only allowed to step in. Moreover, they are actually dependent on whether the provinces involve them or not. The argument used for this is that a search permit can cover several municipalities, but is it really so difficult to involve these municipalities? The perspective that municipalities are actually taken into account is not guaranteed in the way in which the minister now wants to organise it, because it is up to the province to make that assessment. Water boards are not now given any advisory rights, while their tasks can be significantly influenced by mining activities. So they don't have any certainty. Why didn't the waterboards get a position? Why does the Minister choose this? It is not only important that provinces, municipalities and waterboards can talk about mining. The residents themselves must also be given a place in the decision-making process. They must be involved early and be given the opportunity to participate. I'll be on the gas building. The second opinion of the Security Research Council was the recommendation that State surveillance of the Mines (SodM) should become more independent from the Minister and from the gas sector. The interconnectedness of those involved in the gas building was too large and too focused on consensus, so critical noises were hardly addressed. I'm just going to give you a summary of this part of the opinion of the Security Research Council. The Minister now puts the SodM at a more distance, but still keeps it under the Ministry of EZ. The Council of State is quite rightly critical of this. Instructions may only be given in writing, and special instructions pass through the Chamber. Why does the latter only apply to the special indications? Giving a clue is a formal instrument, so there's something special going on when you do that, I'd say. Let us solve the problems at once and ensure that all the clues go to the Chamber at least. We have an amendment in preparation. The Minister is now adjusting the position of the SodM vis-à-vis the Ministry, but not vis-à-vis the gas sector itself, to which the Research Council referred. What is the Minister's view of the possibility of following up this recommendation? The Minister announced a long time ago that he would come forward with an amendment to the gas building. I wonder when we can have that in the Chamber. When I look at the opinion of the Research Council on Security in conjunction with the opinion of the Council of State, I wonder why the Minister is not choosing the much simpler solution to simply bring the SodM under the Ministry of I and M, as was also the inspection of nuclear installations under I and M. In my view, this is countering all criticism in a way that can also pass the test of the Council of State. I would say: we have the solution! Then I come to the reversal of the burden of proof. People with mining damage have to be compensated for that, period. It is very difficult to fight a large mining company as an individual. With the reversal of the burden of proof, the person who has the damage no longer has to prove that the damage is caused by mining, but the mining company has to prove that the damage is not caused by mining. That gives people a much stronger position and makes it easier for them to get their rights. It is, however, a fundamental change in the legal principle "who claims, proves." That is why it is right that we should look very carefully at its demarcation. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has been given the opportunity to give its opinion on this matter. D66 had asked for that before. That advice will help us, because we are all looking for what is the right definition and how we do it carefully. The Council of State has indicated that reversal of the burden of proof is obvious if there are many similar cases caused by an equal source. The Minister translated that into the gas extraction in Groningen and then only in the impact area. But it is not clear to me why a large number of similar cases would be dealt with by mining rather than a large number of equal cases by gas extraction. Why is damage caused by coal mining in Limburg not covered by the reversal of the burden of proof? I'm coming to the impact area. That will, of course, be very decisive. If that area of impact is well defined, clear and generous enough, I think we are going to really strengthen the position of the people in Groningen. And that's what the Chamber wants. However, if the area of impact is very narrowly defined and we get all kinds of court cases or procedures on whether or not something is covered by the area of impact, then we are still very far from home. After all, the inhabitants themselves will have to prove that they are covered by the impact zone, so that they do not have to prove that the damage is not due to mining. I therefore believe that this definition is very important. So how big is the impact area? On the basis of which data and criteria is it determined? Which areas are covered and which are not? This isn't just about Groningen. What do you do with effects that would occur in Drenthe or in Friesland? We must prevent two equal cases from being treated differently. How does the Minister feel about that? According to the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, it now seems that the impact area does not cover much more than Loppersum and that the rest is probably outside. Is that right? And what about all those people out there who also have damage? Will the Minister now indicate the impact area through a ministerial arrangement? That does not give people very much legal certainty, I would say. The Minister argues that the ministerial regime allows him to adapt the impact area quickly. We must, of course, find a mechanism in which we build in flexibility. There is no such flexibility if there is a need for a legislative change to adjust the impact area, for example if we see that the area is larger than we thought in advance. However, it should not be the case that, on an afternoon after a ministerial arrangement, the Minister can change the area of impact without the involvement of the Chamber, given the impact of this dossier and its political involvement. I am sure that the Minister did not intend to change this at all at an afternoon's notice, and that he only intended to speed up people's lives. I assure the Minister that the Chamber will be happy to cooperate in an early treatment to possibly change the area of impact, I would say through a General Measure of Governance. Indeed, the Chamber is involved in the decision-making of an AMvB. I also have an amendment in preparation for this. I would like to touch on the security of supply and the last letter of amendment sent by the Minister. I was surprised, however, that the Minister wanted to include the argument of security of supply as a kind of standard balancing framework when deciding on a permit for an individual well. The argument of security of supply concerns the total production of gas. I'd almost say it couldn't be an individual well if there were people in the cold. There may, of course, be situations where need breaks the law. But, yes, this minister is quite right not to be. Let us try to make the legal framework so that we do not have to break that law if there is an emergency. If you want something with that security of supply, why not just take it as some kind of hardness clause? After all, no one can predict whether such a moment will ever come. So we should not allow it to be part of the balancing of each licence, but we should include some kind of hardness clause. If there is a real security of supply emergency, the Minister could decide otherwise. I am going to prepare an amendment to consider whether we could include that security of supply as a kind of hardness clause in the Mining Act, rather than let it be a standard part of the consideration when issuing an individual permit. I would like to take colleagues with me on a few other amendments which will be tabled or which have been tabled. I've already referred to the directions to the SodM. If the SodM continues to fall within the scope of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, at least all indications must also be sent to the Chamber transparently and publicly. I also think it is appropriate to include an evaluation clause in this law, as we amend it so much. I believe that this is good both for the reversal of the burden of proof and for the whole law. In doing so, it is clearly not the intention to make it a horizon. It is therefore not intended to expire after a certain date. It will continue to exist, but let us evaluate this with each other so that we can improve, strengthen or retain it if the results of the evaluation are positive. I have already said that, together with the CDA, we have tabled two amendments on monitoring and on the role of the SodM in the follow-up to the proceedings in Limburg, because there too many people are faced with damage which they actually say: I did not know this and I did not have any part in it myself. We must also treat these people with care. I'm gonna finish up. With the amendments to the Mining Act, we aim to create a Mining Act that is more in tune with this time, which weighs the interests of nature and the environment, but above all guarantees the safety of people. In order to see whether these changes in practice really work out and whether we should not make further improvements on further points, I thought it wise to review that law after a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u39	We can share about 90% of the input from D66. My party would also like to co-sign some of the proposed amendments. I would like to mention a little more specifically the protection of World Heritage and of Natura 2000. That is something GroenLinks really wants, but I hear D66 say: there are small fields that we do need. Where's the border? I have two examples. One at Ternaard, that's in Friesland just behind the Waddendijk. Borings there do have an impact on World Heritage, because it is behind the Waddendijk, but the area is not formally Natura 2000. The NAM would like to drill there. How does D66 feel about that? Do you have to be able to loosen up in an area like this? There's already gas extraction in Mudhole. That is also just on the edge of the area, but it has effect on the bottom in the Wadden Sea. Should we or should we not stop that with regard to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u40	That's a clear question. The amendment I would like to table concerns the placing of mining installations in Natura 2000 sites. With that you have a clear framework of what you always exclude. It is a limited number of areas, it is clearly defined and you limit the placing of industrial installations in those areas for mining purposes. Well, at least you don't. In addition, we rightly have a whole framework to consider: can gas be extracted in the environment and what effect does it have on Natura 2000 and World Heritage? That is actually the principle of "hand on the crane," as is already used in the drillings that have an effect on the Wadden Sea. For this reason, the normal framework for Natura 2000 sites always applies, namely that you are allowed to do certain activities, provided that you properly map and possibly compensate for the effects. I'm not ruling that out. But it may be that a certain drilling has so much effect that you say: I cannot give a permit for this given the effects that drilling would have on that area. It is therefore an indirect protection that applies under the rules. That's exactly what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u41	So in World Heritage and Natura 2000 sites, no activities. So for example, no wastewater injection on Ameland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u42	I would not be in favour of that. As far as I am concerned, waste water injection is also part of mining activities, and you should not do so in a Natura 2000 or World Heritage Site.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. The amendment to the Mining Act that is before us today is the result of major social consequences of gas extraction in Groningen. The earthquake of 16 August 2012 in Huizinge has become the turning point, as the safety of our inhabitants was clearly at stake. This ultimately led to a gradual reduction in gas extraction in 2014. Much more than expected, this reduction reduced the earthquakes, as opposed to what the NAM always claimed as a licence holder, namely that it would take a very long time for that to happen. Let me be very clear straight away: because the 65,000 damage that has occurred since the earthquake in Huizinge has not been taken generously by the NAM and the government, we are talking today about the reversal of the burden of proof. That is why colleagues' questions about serious damage today are also relevant. We would very much like to hear an answer from the Minister to this addition'serious'. What exactly does that mean? In the first instance, the NAM even denied its liability, which of course became untenable with the increasing numbers and strength of the tremors until it became clear that there was also a relationship between soil decline and seismicity. The research of the Research Council for Security made it painfully clear that the safety of our residents is not well secured with the Mining Act, which dates back to 2002 and before that from Napoleonic times. Due to the increased role of the mining operator in the investigation and the establishment of the extraction plan, it seems difficult to have independent control and to intervene. In his last opinion, which became public last Friday, State supervision of the Mines continues to be heavily critical of the extraction plan of the NAM. It says that the measurement protocol of the NAM is not satisfactory, whereas this should be the basis for determining the production level. At the beginning of September, we will discuss this with the Minister. The question arises as to the extent of the operator's unwillingness. What measures can the Minister take to encourage the NAM to introduce a better regulatory and measurement protocol, which can also be approved by State supervision of the Mines, very soon? According to State supervision of the Mines, NAM does not take sufficient account of the acceptability of damage. The CDA considers the safety of the inhabitants of Groningen to be very important. We have great concerns about the unsolved large complex damage and the uncertainty that many Groningers experience every day. Because it has gone so badly, the confidence of the inhabitants of Groningen has been greatly damaged. Also in the rest of the Netherlands, as in Oppenhuizen and Schiermonnikoog, people fear mining activities, while this was perhaps hardly the case before. The CDA wants confidence restored. The draft law before us makes proposals to this effect. We do have a number of questions and comments on this. The most important issue before us is the proposed reversal of the burden of proof. The CDA wants to strengthen the position of residents affected by mining damage. That is why we voted in favour of the Jan Vos/Ouwehand amendment last year. I see Mr Vos now at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u44	This is about another point. The CDA spokesman keeps a wonderful story about the concerns of residents about gas extraction, but if I am not mistaken, the CDA voted against our motion not to allow gas extraction at Schiermonnikoog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u45	I shall come back to that in detail later in my speech. This has to do with the fact that the risk analyses were not available at the time. They are now available. We received the risk analyses last Friday. I have said to the press and also to colleagues in other debates that we think it is important that it can be done safely. Mrs Van Veldhoven just said that she does not want a drill to be installed in the middle of a Natura 2000 area, but that she does not have a problem with it if it is possible to do so safely underneath. I have made it very clear that I regard safety as a very important prerequisite for gas extraction. This applies not only to the large Groningen field, but also to the small fields. That's why I asked for those risk analyses last year. Unfortunately, it has taken a very long time, but at least they are now inside. We want to take a good look at it to determine how we proceed with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u46	It's a long story. I honestly don't understand much of it. Here in the Chamber GroenLinks has tabled a motion together with the Labour Party. In it the Chamber was asked: are you for or against the gas extraction at Schiermonnikoog? The CDA was against it at the time. Is the CDA still against it or is it for now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u47	I'll get back to you on that. It's about security. I have some questions about that. When you ask a question, I always think it's nice when people listen to it. Anyway, if it isn't, then so be it. The CDA welcomes the fact that the Minister has come up with a novelle to reverse the burden of proof. However, the choice to reverse the burden of proof for the still to be identified impact area in Groningen also raises questions. The CDA would like to hear from the Minister the extent of the impact area for which the reversal of the burden of proof will apply. In the investigation that the Minister sent us on Thursday, it is stated that in Germany the reverse burden of proof is applied to the area in which the soil has fallen to a certain extent. How does the Minister view this? Is this about the extent to which soil has fallen in a given area in a year? How is it determined in which area the damage is of a similar nature? How is it not possible to have the same discussion as we are now discussing the contour map, about which a lot of questions are asked in the Chamber? On what criteria can the impact area be properly determined? The CDA asks the Minister to reflect on the possible legal inequality between residents of the gas extraction area of the Groningenveld and residents of other areas in which mining activities are carried out. As I mentioned earlier, it is important for the CDA that the inhabitants of the rest of the Netherlands who are involved in mining activities are also helped in a good way when faced with possible mining damage. That is why the CDA has already asked for a central point of contact. I understand from the Minister's letter that he responds to our question. The CDA considers this to be a good thing, but the question remains as to how far the window will handle mining damage and help residents. Can the Minister answer that? Are there any file counselors coming to the counter? The establishment of a point of contact is an important prerequisite for the CDA. If that doesn't work well, the CDA will also see the reverse burden of proof for the rest of the Netherlands. The Minister will therefore have to make a great success of this. The CDA hopes, of course, that there will be as little nuisance as possible from damage caused by mining activities. But if there is, as in Woerden and elsewhere, it must be properly picked up and people should not be sent from the cabinet to the wall. When dealing with the Mining Act in 2002, the CDA argued that mining damage should always be compensated. Unfortunately, the reality of the after-fall effects of coal mining in Limburg shows that this is often not the case for residents who have to deal with the negative effects of coal mining in Limburg. The Minister has come up with a concession for distressing cases. Unfortunately, it does not provide legal certainty for these people. These residents did not ask for this damage. It is also important for Groningen that there is certainty that damage which has occurred well after the cessation of the mining activity is compensated. Other colleagues have already mentioned this. In previous debates on the subsequent mining damage, I called on the Minister not to invoke limitation periods in the applications to the Guarantee Fund, but the Minister did so, with legal proceedings and uncertainty in those who are already victims of the consequences of mining. In order to avoid this, I am tabling an amendment to compensate for the damage caused by the mining damage insurance fund. If it is established that damage is the result of mining, this is demonstrated by the opinion of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, then it must be compensated, even after 30 years. In order to achieve this, adequate agreements must be made on the nutrition of the guarantee fund. How does the Minister implement this CDA proposal when it is adopted? I would like an explanation of that. I come to talk about the role of the SodM in research and advice on Limburg. In the technical briefing on the Mining Act, the inspector-general of the SoDM indicated that his organisation would have been helped with a formal task in an terminated mining activity, such as in Limburg. That is why I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I think it is necessary to extend this task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u48	You know, I was just having a little bit of a chat about the guarantee fund. In principle, it is good practice in the Chamber to cover it when you impose a financial tax on the budget, but I understand now that the Minister has to cover it. Or does the CDA have cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u49	That fund is fed by companies engaged in mining activities. Our plea is that the fund is fed sufficiently, so that people can still draw from it in decades, when there are still effects. It's actually "the polluter pays."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u50	I think that is very sensible, but in Limburg there are no mining companies anymore. That's very difficult, because then the question is who's gonna fill it and who's gonna appeal to you for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u51	The Minister has chosen not to use the guarantee fund at that time. He indicated that he would make a separate arrangement for this. As far as we are concerned, that could have come from the guarantee fund. We mentioned this earlier in the Lower House; at the time there was another spokesperson at the VVD. That's how it's gonna apply. Mr. Chairman. The gas extraction in Groningen leads to a lot of worries among our inhabitants. It is right that the Security Research Council states that local and regional authorities should therefore be involved on behalf of the inhabitants in the mining process. The CDA wants this and sees an important advisory role for our fellow governments. The government should take the advice of the co-governments very seriously and depart from it only in a well-founded manner, should they deviate from it. The knowledge position of our fellow governments also needs to be strengthened, because this is a complex matter. This was also advised in the previous review of the Mining Act in 2008. Is the Minister prepared to share the opinion of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement with the co-governments so that they can take this into account in their opinion on the extraction plans? It would be good if the Chamber were to be informed by default about the annual reports of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement and the Mining Board. Is the Minister prepared to do this? I would like more insight, because the technical briefing revealed, for example, that, in the absence of capacity, the Technical Committee on Soil Movement cannot deal with the requests for advice within the required time limits. You can't do that, can you? Is the Minister aware of this problem? What's he gonna do about this? In addition, it is important that the present legislative proposal is followed with greater consideration and involvement of local authorities in ongoing licence applications. The CDA is pleased to receive confirmation from the Minister that he will examine and assess pending applications on the basis of the present proposal. Can the inhabitants of the Netherlands assume that? The CDA asked more than a year ago for the risk analysis of the small fields; I have just spoken about it. I would like to thank the Minister for sending it to the Chamber and for guiding these analyses. There has been much unrest among the people who live above the small fields and over the nature areas where those fields are located. Are preliminary safety assessments possible for test drilling in small fields? It is not clear exactly which safety analyses are made at the test drillings at Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling. The CDA wants the safety and prevention of damage to be adequately weighed. Security must be at the forefront. Other considerations allow us to think differently, namely that no gas should be extracted, but we must be able to weigh this up properly, and the environmental permit must be taken into account. For this consideration, the Structure Vision Underground is of great importance. In the opinion of the CDA companies, this provides more certainty than broad explanatory grounds for refusal. Of course, local authorities and residents must be very closely involved. Will the Minister comment on the state of play of the Structural Vision Underground? I thought he was coming to the Chamber this summer. How is the Minister involved? Are there sufficient opportunities for participation by local authorities and residents? How are the discussions in the region on the design structure vision going? Does the structural vision provide sufficient clarity for a balance between nature and the environment? How can we prevent cases from being duplicated in different laws? This is now in danger of happening. Are we also ensuring a proper connection between the different laws and visions? I would like a clear answer from the Minister to these questions. For the CDA it is important that State supervision of the Mines can do its work as independently as possible. The State Council and the Security Research Council also advocate this. By mixing the interests of the Minister of Economic Affairs, it is not desirable that State supervision of the Mines should still fall within the scope of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and that this should continue to be the case. Let us set this up in the same way as in the case of nuclear safety, that is to say, the SodM is also included in the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment. We advocate that State surveillance of the mines be truly independent. Then, as a Chamber, let us choose to make the SodM an independent administrative body, as well as the Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection Authority. I have prepared a motion for that. I have just heard Mrs van Veldhoven of D66 say the same thing; I expect us to table a joint motion on this matter. I've been looking into whether this can be legally established. That is not possible and we shall therefore propose it in a motion. I will continue with the importance of independent research; one of my colleagues has already spoken about this. For a number of years now we have heard strong criticism of the data and analyses of the NAM, among other things the State surveillance of the Mines. For example, the SodM advised in December 2015 that calculations of the seismic threat and risks should be invested with an independent body. The Minister has undertaken to discuss this with KNMI, TNO and SodM. We do not know how far this is going. Can the Minister say a little more about this today? Does he intend to shape this independent body in addition to the knowledge programme he informed the Chamber about last Friday? In collaboration with the CDA and GroenLinks in Overijssel and in collaboration with GroenLinks, the CDA in the Lower House has played an important role in the field of wastewater injection in Twente. Old pipes are used to transport the wastewater to Tubbergen. The water comes from the oil extraction in Schoonebeek and contains heavy metals. Anticorrosive agents are also added. In Tubbergen it is pumped into an empty gas field. The pipes are leaking and that's why the water injection is shut down. Yesterday, the NAM presented a study on the alternatives to wastewater injection. In order to find out how this should be improved in the future, the CDA will further examine the results of this study. It wasn't brought out until yesterday. So I cannot go into this too much at the moment. The aim should be to purify waste water as much as possible. The disadvantage of purification is, of course, that the water pumped upwards already naturally contains heavy metals and toxic substances. Of course, if they are all cleared out, the costs will be enormous. At the same time, residents fear that additional substances will be added, the exact composition of which is not always completely clear. Nor is it clear what the effects on the water can be if leakages occur. At that time, actually only purification offers 100% guarantee. However, we do believe that consideration should be given, including under the Mining Act. We have tabled an amendment on this with D66 before. Groundwater must be protected. Groundwater is important for our water supply and can be irreparable contaminated by mining activities. This happened in Twente, for example, in the extraction of salt. That's what's in the Minister's letter last Friday. That letter states that AkzoNobel has been aware of contamination since May 2015. How come this has been under the hat for a year? The CDA is really wondering. The Minister writes in his letter that the marketing authorisation holder must report an incident to the inspector-general of the Mines without delay. Did that happen, or didn't that happen at all? What are the sanctions on this? Can it not be prevented that only 25 years later it is discovered that 11,000 litres of diesel oil and 21,000 litres of brine have been leaked? This pollution occurred in the period 1987-89 but only became known last year because it is not monitored at greater depth. At present, only shallow, up to a depth of 6 meters, is monitored for leakages through measurements in probes. The CDA would also like to see more detailed monitoring so that we know at least what happened. Then we can avoid this sort of thing in the future. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? To ensure this, I have tabled an amendment aimed at making further requirements for monitoring in the deep subsurface per General Measure. All colleagues are, of course, free to contribute to this. Since groundwater needs to be adequately protected from pollution, I assume that the Minister is prepared to submit this AMvB to the Chamber within one year. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Zero measurements prior to mining activities of a certain size give our residents certainty. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this. On the one hand, this certainly makes changes understandable, but on the other hand it still does not show a causal link between mining activity and damage. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this and whether he thinks that the mining operator should do a zero measurement. During a working visit to the municipality of Dongeradeel in Friesland, I was asked how the legislator regulates that damage suffered in case of a transfer of property between generations in the long term will be reimbursed on the basis of the law. I am thinking, for example, of damage to drainage systems in agricultural land. There is now a great deal of uncertainty about this in the gas extraction areas. The transfer of ownership between generations leads to uncertainty. The same applies to the purchase of real estate in gas extraction areas. It came to my attention that whoever buys the land had to settle it with the price. If that were the case, I think that would be crazy. Mining operations are causing damage to your land. Then that land drops and you as a resident have to make an assessment of what that should do about the price of your land. I cannot imagine that the Minister agrees with this, but I want to make it absolutely clear today that it really is not going to work that way. One more thing about the last amendment to the law, that of last Friday. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. This makes it possible for CO to be stored in a field that is still in production. Can the Minister explain whether the safety of CO storage in a field in production can actually be guaranteed? Is that what research has been done? This is particularly true since this change is made in order to store CO in the much smaller field nearer to the Maasvlakte Q16-Maas, instead of in the P18 field of the ROAD project. Will public resources be well spent in using that smaller field, if it does not fit in with CO? What is the relationship between the avoided CO emissions and the 500 million investment? In itself, the CDA is positive in relation to the storage of CO in fields just off our coast. We believe that we should investigate this technique further, because CO is a major problem for the change of our climate. Several colleagues have already said it, and I can only confirm it: all the pictures of all the researchers show that we need this technique very much. You can say you don't like it and that's why we shouldn't do it, but I think we need everything we can do to stop climate change in the end. Unfortunately, it's not a nice story, but it's the way it is. We would very much like to know whether our investments in such a field and those relationships are real. We can only spend our euro once. Let me conclude by saying that we welcome the fact that, at our request, the Minister has come up with a one-stop shop for the inhabitants, including those of the rest of the Netherlands, so that their serious complaints about mining damage can be properly dealt with. Whether that actually happens then depends on its layout. We also welcome the fact that these risk analyses have been carried out. It all seems to be a bit bad, but we think it is important for the inhabitants, through their local municipalities, the province and the water companies, to be properly involved in the consideration of mining and mining. If the Minister deviates from their advice, we think it would be good if he did so very well. My final point. Like the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we think it is logical that the companies should participate in the inspections of the SodM. I congratulate the Minister for having incorporated this into this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. At first sight, this seems to be a very technical debate. It's a very technical legal treatment. It's about mining and the rules that mining has to comply with. However, if you look further, you will see that it is about the environment where you live and where you want to feel safe. The important thing is that you know that you can take part in the decision about that environment. How is it ensured that the safety of residents is at the top of the licensing process? The picture is that a mining permit may be issued before the environmental permit is granted. Is this law going to streamline that? Why can a mining permit be obtained before safety is guaranteed in an environmental permit? Maybe it's all technically correct and explainable, but people feel that the decision has already been taken. Does the Minister agree with me that streamlining is important? I am considering an amendment on the possibility of streamlining.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u53	A nice beginning of the VVD: people also want to be able to talk. Can Mr Bosman say clearly to the people of Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling who are sitting here in the bleachers that we are not going to drill there? Does the VVD support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u54	Now Mrs. Van Tongeren is turning it around. In principle, there is a certain time limit for consultation. There's legislation for it. There are rules. That's how we're gonna take care of it. Mrs Van Tongeren now says that she ignores all the possibilities and participation and that we are going to do it from the Lower House. So we have to stop having that say and decide in plenary at every well whether or not we are going to drill. It's either one or the other. Either we take part, but then we shouldn't write tough texts here that we're going to decide here, or we're going to decide here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u55	I understand that it is difficult for the VVD, because it must try to defend the Minister. There are amendments before us today which exclude world heritage and which identify the Wadden Sea as an area where we do not want gas drilling. Does the VVD support that we are not drilling on or near Terschelling, Schiermonnikoog and mention the islands? Does the VVD support that we're not gonna drill into that beautiful piece of Wadden Sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u56	I do not have to defend the Minister, because he is perfectly capable of defending himself. That's not my intention either. I'm sorry about this. Of course, this is a debate in plenary, with many people in the gallery. However, I haven't been working for a minute. All these things are coming along. I also have ideas about how we should deal with gas extraction. I'm sure I'll get to that. But now we are chasing each other and I have to explain in response to GroenLinks' question what the VVD's vision is like. I have my story. I have ideas, too. Mrs Van Tongeren knows that, too. I regret that she is now coming up with tough lyrics like "I need to know now, Mr Bosman!'. It's gonna be in my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think that's a very good idea. I suggest you continue with your text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you. In your own home, in your own environment, you must feel safe. You should be able to enjoy the beautiful view over the meadow or the skyline of Middelburg. Your kids need to be able to play outside safely and go to school. We all know the stories of Groningen. Residents have damage. Residents don't feel safe at home anymore. There are monuments with damage. Living quarters are about to be strengthened, with all the nuisances of that. No one wants that. A house can't be your home with so many problems. I can only understand that too well. Unfortunately, I still regularly talk to people with complaints about the damage handling of mining activities from Groningen. All claims for damages, both in respect of damage within a security area and in respect of damage outside, must be dealt with seriously. I think we've agreed on that several times. That agreement must be fulfilled. Does the Minister agree with me on this? Last year the VVD voted against the amendment on the reversal of the burden of proof. We are still not in favour of reversing the burden of proof. However, we do see the adjustments made by the Minister on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State and its implementation. But we still see a lot of shortcomings in the implementation of this law, which can help to disappoint the people who thought this was the solution. We can see that coming. What is the area where the law is in force? At every border a problem arises: why him and not me? What should be the nature of the damage and what should be the cause of it? Reversal of the burden of proof gives people a little support in a court of law, but this does not mean that they are right in advance. There will still be a legal procedure to determine whether or not they are right. I foresee a further legalisation of the handling of complaints and that there will be less room for mutual agreements and the provision of customisation. However, I do understand the introduction of the reversal of the burden of proof: we all want people to be helped in the earthquake area caused by gas extraction in Groningen. It's as simple as that. However, people feel that sometimes they do not only feel that this aid is inadequate. It is precisely because I believe that what this Chamber is doing should lead to a better situation for those suffering damage that I am considering taking the step towards moving along. I would like to ask the Minister whether an evaluation period can be included as regards the reversal of the burden of proof. I heard the content of Mr Van Veldhoven's amendment. Can we, for example, evaluate the FUR after five years to see if this arrangement has produced the result that we expected from it? Legislation is good, but there is paper legislation if no results are achieved. That would be extremely unfortunate, because it is about the goal rather than about the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u59	This is asking for an interruption. I give Mrs Van Veldhoven the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u60	This is an invitation. If the VVD would like to be a co-signator of this amendment, I would like to put the name Bosman underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you for inviting me, Mrs. Van Veldhoven. I'll talk to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u62	It is not so nice to leave an invitation hanging in the air, but in this case I will give Mr Bosman some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u63	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u64	I see it's hard for you to turn down that invitation. You had to think for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u65	I've just been dropped off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u66	Yeah, I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u67	I don't get that kind of invitation from the opposition that often, but we agree. That's gonna be okay. I express my disappointment at the fact that this measure is necessary in order to do justice to the damage. If there is damage to a house, the problem must be solved and no exception must be made, whether there is an area of impact or not. Experience with the NAM shows that it is a danger to work with impact areas. I would like the Minister's confirmation that he is ensuring that no one is going to use the area of impact as an excuse not to have to help people. I am pleased that there will be a one-stop shop for mining damage and that in Groningen the national coordinator will have that role. People shouldn't be sent from the locker to the wall. We have also discussed this issue on a number of occasions. We all understand that there must be good regulation. The Research Council for Security has carried out research into the old mining legislation and has found that there are many shortcomings. Fortunately, the current law has been adapted to this. It is good that there should be more considerations on the basis of which a permit can or cannot be granted. It is therefore better for the environment to assess what the permit must comply with. In addition, there remains an important role for state surveillance of mines. With this law, the SodM is a bit more distant from the minister: it has become more independent. I believe that the best thing to do is to strive for maximum transparency. I would like the Minister to confirm that this independence is fully guaranteed. This law could and should streamline the processes for granting the Mining Act. If the licensing process is simpler and more transparent, people can also see better what they can appeal to and how and where to do so. The procedures will then be completed more quickly and both the entrepreneur and the neighbour will know more quickly what he is up to. How does the Minister see this? Is this indeed a way to clarify the situation for residents? Does this mean that they are less insecure for a long time? I have already announced the amendment on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u68	My question was about the independence of State supervision of the Mines and the advice given by the Council of State and the Security Research Council. In the view of the CDA, it could be put even further at a distance, namely by hanging it under I and M and turning it into a zbo. How's the VVD in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u69	In many ministries you can see that they have supervision within their own ministry and also have a responsibility for it. I like to see it in steps. I would therefore like to see how this step will work. I think this is a good step. We're all here to see what's gonna happen. As a first step, this might be something to think about before we take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u70	Does the VVD still see the possibility of taking one of the two steps faster, for example by placing it under I and M, so that you do not get caught up in the balance of interests in that same Ministry of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u71	We must be careful at this point in the balance of interests, as if it were not taking place or that there would be problems with it. For example, the Health Inspectorate is just under VWS. Those interests are also at a distance from each other there. So why couldn't that be the case here too? I believe that these steps are a step in the right direction. So I'd like to wait and see. In a year or five years from the review of the law, we can always look further. I think we should be careful to make a structural change at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u72	A difference with the Health Inspectorate is, of course, that this is not based on a report by the Research Council for Security which recommends that we do things differently, which also better protects the bottleneck of ministerial responsibility. Perhaps Mr Bosman would like to think again. My question to Mr Bosman concerns the following. An interesting part of his speech is the combination of all those permits, which I have also mentioned. How do you make it simpler, more consistent and clearer? Something has changed since 1810. Then you had a permit based on the Mining Act that gave you the economic right because actually only one activity was foreseen in the subsurface and that was mining. Now there are a lot of different activities and a right that actually hangs in the air for one activity in the subsurface may sometimes conflict with a right for another activity that you would like to perform there. So the point is that you actually say: you get that right only if you also get the corresponding environmental permits, so that you can actually do what you would like to do, and that there is not some kind of frivolous right. What does the VVD think of this problem? Do we think, even as regards the questions I have asked the Minister, in the same direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u73	That's a story about streamlining, because now you get the picture that you already have a mining permit but that you still have to wait for the environmental permit. Of course, that's a very strange picture: that mining permit is already there, but I have to jump through a few hoops and then it's done. In other words, the mining licence has already been issued, so the rest must follow. I think that's the wrong picture. It may be technical and legally correct, but it seems to me unwise. Hence my question about streamlining. I'm also thinking about an amendment. However, I would like to ask the Minister what he thinks first. I think Mrs Van Veldhoven and I are on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u74	I will not make another invitation to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u75	Shall I invite you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u76	You can always do that. What I am referring to is something else, but it is very much in line with this. It may be that, under the Mining Act, you will have a permit to drill for gas near Bussum, if necessary in a Natura 2000 area as far as Mr Bosman is concerned, but I do not think that is the case. That could then conflict with other activities that you would also like to do in that subsurface. For example, if there is a right to gas extraction, you could not do geothermal activity or any other activity there. Of course, things have changed since 1810. Therefore, it would also be good to look at these two in conjunction, so that you cannot obtain that right if you do not have the environmental permit for other activities, so that you also make room for those other activities that may be eligible for that environmental permit. Does Mr Bosman agree with me that we should make that link in that sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u77	If I understand correctly, Mrs Van Veldhoven says that there should be no claim in an area if it excludes all other possibilities. I think it would be wise for that to be given serious consideration. It can't be that I can pass out different claims. It can't be that I don't honor a claim because that would limit it. So there are a lot more hooks and eyes to it, but in principle that is the discussion. It can't be forever. If you have that claim, you're gonna have to do something about it within a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u78	It's actually about preventing empty claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u79	I agree. We regularly discuss several permits for gas drilling on and around the Wadden. This is a sensitive area, I say to Mrs Van Tongeren. The Wadden Sea is even on the UNESCO World Heritage List. We have to deal with that carefully. The VVD therefore believes that we should have a more general policy on activities in that area and that we should not exchange views here in the Chamber per permit. That way people on and around the Wadden know what they're up to. This also applies to those companies that may be interested in drilling in that area. My colleague Jan Vos is working on an amendment on a clearer policy. I would like to hear the Minister's views on gas drilling on and around the Wadden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u80	I call Mr Jan Vos. I see he's going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u81	I get that a lot!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u82	You do that a lot. Yeah, I know. I give the floor once again to Mr Jan Vos, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u83	There is a long tradition of PvdA-Room members who sometimes seem to have gone in the wrong direction, but eventually got far in life. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill implementing among other things the recommendations of the 2015 OVV. The cabinet had already indicated that it would adopt all the recommendations. This includes strengthening the independence of the supervisor, the SodM, and ensuring a long-term research programme with independent research. Last year we discussed another amendment to the Mining Act in this Chamber. This was about the safety of offshore drilling platforms. That bill was passed. At that time, four amendments were also adopted which the Minister did not agree with. By means of a novella, the Minister intends to delete these amendments and introduce their own variant into the Mining Act. He then does so after consulting the Council of State. This is done by means of two different legislative proposals. Last year's bill was arrested in the Upper House. In total, there are now three legislative amendments to the Mining Act. Now you're thinking, why does he come up with that whole story? With this, I would like to point out that the debate on gas extraction and mining activity in the Netherlands is quite politicised. A number of references were made today to the age of the Mining Act, but it is clear that this issue is currently at the heart of the political debate. As far as my group is concerned, the recommendations of the OVV are widely supported. The cabinet had already embraced these recommendations. The point is that other departments should be better involved in the decision-making of mineral resources and that provinces and municipalities should be given a clear role in decision-making so that the perspective of citizens, such as residents of Schiermonnikoog or Terschelling, is taken into account in a recognizable way. In addition, the independence of the SodM vis-à-vis the department and the sector is strengthened. We have received the SodM in the Chamber and we have been told that the changes are also very much appreciated by the SodM itself. Another recommendation concerns the provision of a long-term research programme with independent scientific and applied research. The bill that we are debating today provides that the safety importance is more important when issuing search, extraction and storage permits and extraction plans. Insecurity and damage to buildings may be grounds for refusal of the permits and the extraction plan. The same applies to spatial considerations based on structural visions. The Structure Vision Substrate (Strong) and its AMvB may identify areas in which mining activities may not take place. The House of Representatives is not directly about Strong and Barro. It's a bit of a jargon, but you'll have to excuse me, Mr. President. We are considering asking the Chamber to give its opinion on the way in which coal mining areas will be framed in Strong. However, it is not yet certain that the cabinet will now make it easier to understand mining activities in and around the Wadden Sea, which we have advocated in this Chamber. By "we," I do not mean the Labour Party. It concerns a majority of the House of Representatives. One of the motions in which we have advocated making mining activities in and around the Wadden Sea impossible is a motion on Schiermonnikoog. That motion was passed by the Chamber last week. Today there are also residents of Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling in the public gallery. It will be clear that my group is considering tabling an amendment to designate the Wadden region, the Wadden Islands, the Natura 2000 sites near the islands and the UNESCO World Heritage Site as an area in which mining installations are no longer permitted. I hope to reassure Mrs van Tongeren van GroenLinks in that regard. We are also considering tabling two other amendments. Those amendments were tabled and adopted last year. In that sense, we'll do our job again. These amendments have been taken out of the law, at least, they have not been incorporated into the legislative proposals before us. They're coming back in a variant that we're just thinking differently about. It concerns the reversal of the burden of proof in the event of damage to soil movement caused by gas extraction and the extension of the grounds for refusal in planned mining activities in natural areas. I have come to speak about the reversal of the burden of proof. Together with Mr Ouwehand of the Party for Animals, the Labour Party has tabled an amendment to make it possible that citizens no longer have to prove to the courts themselves that they are harmed by mining activities, as it is up to the cause of the damage to prove that the damage is not the result of gas extraction in that area. We did this because tens of thousands of people in Groningen are in miserable procedures. As the chairman of the Technical Committee on Soil Movement, Dick Tommel, said here in this Chamber, it is not really a fair trial. On the one hand, you have that great powerful name. I paraphrase it for a moment, and on the other hand, you have a single citizen. That's not an honest affair. The Council of State agreed with the amendment, but also made a number of comments. One of the important comments made by the Council of State is the following. If you want the reversal of the burden of proof to be effective, you have to define clearly that it is a limited area. We are very much looking for the right wording. For example, we have thought about the entire province of Groningen. But yes, here and there in surrounding provinces people also suffer from soil decline and perhaps even more in the future; perhaps even from earthquake damage. We have also thought about the contours. We have discussed them many times here. They're not that popular in Groningen, and I think for some reason. We have chosen, in consultation with a number of other groups, a wording that currently falls within the scope of the Legislative Bureau. The amendment will come to the Chamber this afternoon. In the amendment we describe the area in such a way that anyone suffering from damage to movement caused by extraction in the Groningen field is covered by the reversal of the burden of proof. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether we have responded effectively to the comments of the Council of State and to the cabinet's wish to restrict the area. We were initially talking about the whole of the Netherlands. There is much talk that this amendment would not apply retroactively. That's what I read in the Dagblad van het Noord. However, the retroactive effect is regulated outside this legislative proposal, namely in Article 68a of the Transitional Law new Civil Code. So this is not taken into account separately in the amendment. The evidence presumption applies to pending cases that have not yet been closed and to cases that still need to be started, but not to cases that have already been fully resolved. It's not like you're not covered by that new law if you have damage right now. That's sometimes said wrongly. However, the presumption of evidence does not, in principle, apply in the case of an appeal, i.e. the case before the court, unless the court decides otherwise. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can confirm this reading. My colleague Lutz Jacobi from the Labour Party said that the Wadden Sea is a unique and very valuable natural area, which must be protected from harmful economic activities. The Labour Party no longer wants mining activities to take place in the Wadden Sea as a Natura 2000 site. However, we do not think that we should ban gas extraction in Natura 2000 sites throughout the Netherlands. There are 400 small fields in the Netherlands. If you were to ban it for all Natura 2000 sites, you would really make it very complicated. Unfortunately, we still need some natural gas in the transition to renewable energy. An amendment has been tabled by the SP to limit the period of approval of the extraction plan to two years. At least I saw that amendment pass, but Mr Smaling did not mention it in his first term. I think that amendment is a little out of order in this debate, but I understand that Mr Smaling is using this debate to present it. After all, this is an opportunity to change the law. I sympathise with the amendment, but I would consider it more appropriate to propose an evaluation in two years' time. Then we can see how the current cabinet proposal is going. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have to anchor that in the law. The way Mr Smaling now proposes would mean that these 400 small fields where gas is produced should all be given a new extraction plan every year instead of every five years. That makes it all very complicated. So I understand the concerns of the SP on the one hand; we do not want to wait five years before we look at the matter again in Groningen. Every group here in the Chamber has that concern. On the other hand, I wonder whether it would be wise to settle this legally. Perhaps instead of this amendment, we can jointly draw up a motion to address our concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u84	I am a bit looking for consistency in Mr Vos's speech. I know the line of the Labour Party in the field of nature. The PvdA is a party that stands for the protection of nature's interests. This is not about existing installations, but it is really about the installation of new installations. I think it was a year ago that Minister Kamp said: I would like to go back into small fields in the North Sea. Then Mr Vos said: none of that, we are not going to do that. So he ruled that out while it wasn't even about Natura 2000 sites. Would Mr Vos really be pleased if the Minister still decided to grant a permit for a new drilling platform in, for example, the Naardermeer, the Gooimeer or the Vechtplassen? These are all Natura 2000 sites in the immediate vicinity of the place where Mr Vos lives. Would the Labour Party really be pleased with the installation of new installations in such sensitive areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u85	I am very glad that it finally becomes clear that I am not from Groningen. I believe that Mrs Van Veldhoven is making a number of inaccuracies. Firstly, it is not the case that my group opposes gas extraction in the North Sea. I was against spending taxpayers' money on subsidising the activities of oil companies in the North Sea. That's what I said. Subsidising oil companies is something other than otherwise setting up the tax regime. I am not against winning gas either, because Mrs Van Veldhoven knows as well as I do that, just as we will need CCS, which is not a popular story either. We will need gas in the coming decades before we have sufficient renewable energy and alternatives. Mrs Van Veldhoven also understands that I am not in favour of installing drilling platforms in nature reserves. I think that what she says about this is a bit charged. On the other hand, I am also opposed to everything being completely closed so that nothing is possible anymore. The Minister said before, "Listen, I'm not allowed to do anything in the Chamber." He's got a bit of a point there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u86	In my view, D66 has made it very clear that we do not exclude gas extraction in the Netherlands altogether. Mr Vos says every time: no, not here, not there. I do not want to see the decision-making process becoming ah hoc, in which Mr Vos says: in this nature reserve it is and in that nature reserve it is not. These are new installations. That is why I repeat my question. Would Mr Vos and the Labour Party really be pleased that... Such an amendment is likely to depend on the Labour Party. Will the Labour Party soon allow new mining facilities to be installed in Natura 2000 sites, the most vulnerable areas we have? Does that really fit in with Mr Vos' vision? The alternative is to put them on the edge of such an area. So this doesn't have to stand in the way of gas extraction. I agree with Mr Vos when he says that we will need gas for a while. Why, however, does he want to keep open the possibility that new installations, new drilling platforms, will be placed in those vulnerable natural areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u87	We have been working with D66 for four years to get nature and the environment on the agenda, to say goodbye to fossil energy and to work together to generate more renewable energy. Today we have a wonderful moment, because we realize for the inhabitants of Terschelling and Schiermonnikoog and other Wadden Islands that there can be no more drilling in Natura 2000 areas near those islands, that there can be no new installations on those islands and that there can be no new installations in the Wadden Sea. That's a beautiful area. Let us celebrate this, but let us also be reasonable and listen to the Minister when he says: "Dear Chamber, you must be aware that we are a country where everyone needs energy and that we will actually have to win that energy in a number of places. I'd like to take that middle position right now. If Mrs Van Veldhoven says that she disagrees with that, then we can and then our paths are divided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u88	I am very glad that the PvdA here today saved the Wadden area and the Wadden Islands. For that, my compliments. However, I have another question on another subject. During the previous examination of the Mining Act, we tabled two amendments together, one to give the Minister more grounds for rejecting an application and one to give democratically elected bodies at least an advisory right. From Mr Vos' speech so far, it is not quite clear to me whether we want to put it in the law together this time or whether we have not heard anything about the waterboards: let that go through the province. I have not yet heard whether public health remains in the view of the PvdA this time in our joint amendments or whether there is a progressive understanding on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u89	With regard to the grounds for refusal, I think that these are broadly the same, but that, as a result of the opinion of the Council of State, they need to be changed in a number of detail. I hope that we can reach a consensus on this. Mrs Van Tongeren says that the Labour Party has done well, but of course that is not the case. It's the majority of the House that does that. We have worked very much with her party in this respect. I hope that we can table these amendments together at the end of the day and take due account of the points raised by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u90	I would find that a fantastic conclusion to this debate and also a good step in an orderly process on the road to the fossil energy transition. Let's get to the bright future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr Vos says: we make the inhabitants of Schier and Terschelling happy, because there is no drilling on Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling. Can we also make them happy that they are not drilled near Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling? Because if there is drilling under those islands, I don't know if the inhabitants will be so happy in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u92	I think it is important that we do not allow new mining installations on those islands, that those installations are not allowed in the Wadden Sea either, that those installations are not allowed in the World Heritage Site and that in Natura 2000 sites in the Wadden Islands it is not allowed to install new mining installations. With this, I have defined very precisely how I feel about it. Of course, it is then possible, for example, to drill from a distance underneath those areas. I also understand that your party would very much like to ban it. That is a point where you want to go a little further than my party. I hope that today we can celebrate what we have been able to gain for nature and the environment, for the inhabitants of those islands and for all the other people in the Netherlands who always go there with such pleasure and that we do not use that last leftover to increase the differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u93	The damage is, of course, partly caused by the drilling towers that are being built, but the damage is also partly caused because the soil is going to sink due to gas extraction. Especially the Wadden Sea is a very vulnerable area with areas that are sometimes underwater and sometimes dry due to low tide and flood. The moment you start drilling and you are going to gain gas there, you can also bring about very radical changes there. You can say that you are not going to drill and that you are not going to put those towers in the protected areas, but if you place the towers on the edge of the protected areas, you will create a problem if you are going to win gas under the protected areas, under Schier and under Terschelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u94	My reaction to this is broadly in line with the story I just gave in response to the interruption of D66. I do not think it is good to stop winning gas in the Netherlands; that is not possible. We have halved the gas extraction in Groningen since 2012, since the beginning of this cabinet period. We have said a lot of places that we do not want gas extraction there. At the same time, Mr Wassenberg knows as well as I do that in almost all houses in the Netherlands natural gas is still used. The Labour Party thinks that we should get rid of that and that we should switch. We need to get the central heating boiler out, but it didn't happen from today to tomorrow. The gas is also used by the neighbouring countries. So we do need that. In the case of extraction, of course, soil decline does not necessarily occur. This is monitored on the basis of the "hand on the crane" principle. Nor do we allow those installations to enter the Wadden Sea itself. I believe that I have addressed Mr Wassenberg's concern in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u96	I have come to the end of my speech, because I have been able to deal with the remaining points in the answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u97	I have listened with attention to Mr Vos. My group has tabled an amendment on the issue of drinking water companies. I don't think I heard that coming. Drinking water companies have a lot of knowledge and expertise on the subsurface from their job to protect drinking water extraction. How does the Labour Party view the possibility of giving drinking water companies an advisory role in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u98	That is one of the points to which Mrs Van Tongeren referred. I think it is important that we give the various levels of government in the Netherlands proper opportunities for participation. I do not know whether we should give the same position to companies, even if they are drinking water companies. We can wait for the government's reaction to Mrs Dik's input, but you will then be flung out very widely, making processes that have been quite long and complicated even longer and more complicated. I also wonder what precedent we will set. You can then give all companies the opportunity to participate in such a bill. I really do not think that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u99	I understand the point of drifting; we certainly should not want that. However, this is not a regular profit-making company, it is a company that serves our interests, which provides our drinking water supply and has truly specialist knowledge. I am therefore happy to bring my amendment to the attention of the Labour Party. Let us indeed await the Minister's response, but I hope that the Labour Party will look at this with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr. Chairman. It has taken some time, but at last there is the legislative proposal which must lay down the reversal of the burden of proof for the Groningen people, at least for some of the Groningen people, because the Minister intends to limit its scope to the controversial contour map. Does the Minister recognise that earthquake damage has already been observed outside this contour map? If so, why should these people not be subject to the reversal of the burden of proof, which is true for other Groningen people who suffer damage from gas extraction from the Groningen field? As far as PVV is concerned, it is clear that the contour map is not sufficient to define the reversal of the burden of proof. That is what the practice has shown. It is reported that in some villages outside the contours there is more earthquake damage than in some villages within the contours. That is also possible, because the extent to which earthquake damage occurs in homes depends on many more factors than just the distance from the home to the epicentre of the quake, as several scientists have repeatedly explained in the Chamber. The PVV has therefore tabled an amendment to extend the reversal of the burden of proof to the entire province of Groningen, "From Lauwerszee to Dollard tou, from Drenthe to 't Wad." I have only just tabled the amendment because Mr Vos was in favour of an amendment. But since he has just said in his speech that he is going to amend that amendment and still reduce it a little more, I have decided to submit my amendment, which concerns the entire province of Groningen. I come to speak about the other bill: the revision of the Mining Act. This review is based on the disenchanting conclusions of the report of the Security Research Council. The PVV strongly supports this proposal, but has reservations about the way in which the Minister has worked it out. For the PVV, it is important that citizens are given maximum prior participation in a new search or extraction permit. The PVV doubts to what extent this is the case under this law. The participation of municipalities and water boards is being improved, but what exactly is the situation for citizens? Furthermore, the legislative proposal does not change anything in terms of liability for damages to residents. The current Mining Act already obliges the operator to compensate for damage, but that, as we can see in Groningen, is apparently not clear enough. Why has it not been chosen to clarify this with retroactive effect? This applies not only to Groningen, but also to the mining damage in Limburg. The PVV has repeatedly filed motions to get compensation for that damage, but this revised Mining Act does not provide a solution either. Why not? If this cannot be regulated by law, what other options does the Minister see for compensating the Limburg victims? With regard to the strengthening of the independent position of State supervision of the Mines, we are also wondering how exactly the Minister fills this out. To date, the opinions of the SodM have been non-binding. If the Minister did not like the advice, it was possible to ignore that advice, for example by pointing out all kinds of investigations that had yet to come. Can the Minister explain in what cases and under what conditions he may deviate from the opinions of the SodM? Can he also explain to what extent the status of the SodM differs from that of the ACM, the Authority Consumer & Market, when it comes to the legal obligation to follow these opinions and, if so, why it deviates? As far as PVV is concerned, it is clear that the earthquakes resulting from the gas extraction in Groningen justify public intervention. Besides Groningen, however, there are several hundred other locations in our country, especially in the North Sea, where mining activities take place. This is often done without any problems. These activities make an important contribution to our economy and employment. The continued existence of these activities in the Netherlands may come under pressure with this legislative amendment. The Minister can say that existing permits can only be withdrawn for serious reasons, but what exactly is the situation? Can the Minister define the term "heavy" in more detail? For our part, this is necessary in order to prevent left-wing climate politicians, whether or not under the leadership of heavily subsidised environmental clubs, which claim to represent a major interest, from withdrawing permits already granted on political grounds. Our economic prosperity is also based on legal certainty for investors. As a country, we cannot afford to deter investors by being unclear as to when an authorisation already granted can or cannot be withdrawn. We would like to hear from the Minister a clarification of the concept of 'heavy'. The PVV does have some reservations about both legislative proposals. It wholeheartedly supports the reversal of the burden of proof. However, with the limitations imposed by the Minister in the law, it is the question whether it does not work counter-productively, as the Technical Committee on Soil Movement indicated in the briefing. This problem can be solved by my amendment. I hope, of course, that this will be accepted. As far as the other legislative proposal is concerned, the PVV still has some doubts. It is clear that the legislative proposal strengthens the political grip on mining, but the PVV still has the question of whether the position of the citizens will benefit from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u101	The citizens of Schiermonnikoog, of course, would like to know why Mrs Klever voted against our motion calling on the government to stop allowing gas extraction at Schiermonnikoog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u102	This is an authorisation for which all legal procedures have been completed. Because of legal certainty, we do not think it is fair to withdraw it as a political act. However, I would point out that the position of citizens needs to be strengthened. The city council of Schiermonnikoog has agreed to the search permit and the province has also agreed to it. Even Natural Monuments have agreed to that. But the citizens weren't aware. We call for the public to be informed when such a permit is applied for and to be able to object. That is the time when the participation of residents must be regulated. I would argue in my speech that this should be regulated by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u103	I think the citizens want people's representatives, you and I, who stand up for their interests. Are you now for or against the gas extraction at Schiermonnikoog?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u104	Schiermonnikoog has people's representatives who we give more say in this legislative proposal, but this does not apply to the citizens. We want citizens to have a say in advance. At the moment, we are not legally able to do anything about the permit that has already been granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-29-tweedekamer-3.u105	Thank you, Mrs Klever. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The people of Schiermonnikoog who want to offer something to the members of the Chamber can do so on the Square. I shall suspend the sitting until 2:00 p.m. We shall then begin with an arrangement of work. Then there is a VSO (report of a written consultation). This debate will be resumed at 3 p.m.
