ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Klein. I know from my own experience that a few people in this Chamber know that this is a special moment to come up with an own initiative law and to defend it. Mr Klein does not have to do it all by himself. He is supported by Mrs Van der Zanden, policy officer with Mr Klein, Mr Tielen, policy adviser with the Social Insurance Bank and Mr Van Zoest, legislative lawyer............................................................................................................................................................................................................ I also welcome, of course, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response will be discussed at a later date, in consultation with the initiator. Speaking time has been indicated in advance. Interrupts always go in two stages. As the first speaker of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Ulenbelt of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. A colleague in the Chamber who writes an initiative law deserves a compliment for that alone. My first question is: what problem does the initiator intend to solve with his proposal for a flexible AOW? In the explanatory statement I read that he is concerned with freedom of choice, that a fixed AOW-time would not be of this time and that the flex-AOW would bring the AOW back to its time. Is freedom of choice the only argument underlying the initiative proposal? There is indeed a growing desire for a flexible AOW. Trade unions such as FNV and CNV are for that. But the background to this is that they see that for many people working until the age of AOW is impossible. The difference in life expectancy between high-paid and low-paid is seven years. The difference in expected years without health problems is even greater. Does the initiator solve this with his bill? He doesn't write a letter about that. My question is, why not? The initiator says that his proposal encourages longer working after the AOW age. Someone will receive a higher AOW benefit: 6.5% more for each year that they work longer after the AOW age. But in his calculations, the initiator starts from the exact opposite. He says he expects 20% for the AOW age to stop and 10% for work. Now I don't get it. What is it? What is the purpose of the law? Making it possible to stop earlier, which the initiator assumes in the calculations? Or continue working after the AOW age, as is much less in the calculations? The result of stopping two years earlier is 13% less AOW. Those who are up and can't do it anymore get a lower income. Anyone who can continue to work gets a higher income. You can choose, but the result is that who has built up a good pension can bring his AOW age forward and who has built up a low pension that is financially impossible? What's social about that? Perhaps it is a bit of a loose end, Mr Klein stands for it, but what is social about it? Freedom of choice has a pendant in choice stress. If this bill were to be passed, you'd have to start making your financial planning at some point. When are you gonna stop working? If all this comes true, it's gonna be a hell of a job. You have to figure out how much pension you get. You need to figure out how much AOW you need. That's gonna be a thingy, a tricky thingy. I am curious about the reaction of the initiator to this. The pension funds must provide data for this purpose. Has Mr Klein spoken to the pension administrators? How often do they want to provide this data? Should pension funds take into account the income situation of the person who wants his AOW to take up early? Let me give you a concrete example: someone has a high-low pension. He wants to apply for an early AOW. His pension for the high phase is enough, but his pension for the low phase is too low. Who's signaling this? It may be that someone with a low pension, if he has taken up a lot, will be below the level of welfare. But we won't know for five or ten years. The initiator says that if you fall below welfare level, you will not be eligible for the advance of the AOW age. According to him, there should be a General Measure of Governance that defines what that structural income is. That must be stable and regular. I wonder what that is exactly. Why doesn't the author choose to put the definition of that regular and stable income in the law? There will be many questions about that. Another question is whether you can apply for an early AOW if you continue to work in addition. I'm very curious about that. It can be very interesting for some people. I have this idea that it's possible, because you'll have a regular, stable income. But what about people who want to work in part and who have a temporary contract? When can they record this? Are people with a zero-hour contract out of the boat? You can continue working after the AOW already. Then you just put the AOW in a savings account and take the money later. So you also have a higher AOW, you might say. As an argument against this, Mr Klein says that you have to pay taxes on savings. Yeah, that's true, but if you leave the AOW with the government, don't you work a little bit on tax avoidance, legalized by the initiator? I have a very specific case. Someone goes five years earlier, at 61, with AOW. Retirement is enough. He's got a permanent contract, he gets fired after a year, he gets two years of WW and then he gets welfare. How are you gonna do that? Actually, he shouldn't get it. Or is this one of the circumstances that Mr Klein says: it is not your fault; it is all possible? Finally. Does the author not agree with the SP that its proposal is particularly interesting for high-income people who are physically and mentally able to continue working until after the AOW age?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	I would add that the initiator will only reply at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the initiator on his initiative. Such an initiative bill is a huge job. Fortunately, he is assisted by experts. Certainly this subject, the AOW, is an extensive subject, and is a very important topic in many people's lives. That's a good thing, 'cause this is a nice public insurance policy. I know the current chairman of an initiative proposal that we put forward together on the General Administrative Law Act. That wasn't easy, but we did it with great pleasure. I can therefore recommend it to everyone. But I think Mr Klein already has some experience in submitting initiatives. The initiative law concerns the flexibilisation of the starting date of the AOW. I have no choice but to be sympathetic to this idea, because it is in the election programme of the Labour Party. We'll start with that. But I would also like to begin with the fundamental question that Mr Ulenbelt has already put: what is the starting point of the petitioner's submission of this bill? We have been discussing the flexibility of the AOW for a long time. It comes from the idea that there is a group of people who have worked pretty hard their lives, have not built up a lot of pension and for whom that finish line, especially with the acceleration in the increase in the AOW age, is quite difficult to achieve. On this basis, the idea of the flexibility of the AOW has become part of my party's electoral programme. But if not with Mr Klein. He's based on the very different principle that you need to be able to choose. He finds this important from his ideology and his way of thinking. Five years ahead and five years backwards: that is what my first question is about. There's a lot going on in your AOW if you let it go a year earlier, 6.5% net and 7.2% gross, if I'm right. If you're gonna do that for five years, you're gonna have to get a decent pension to make it. Mr Klein is counting it. He mentions the amount of €8,800. I'd like to get some more precise figures anyway. In the note on the report, he also uses annual amounts all the time. I would like to see it reflected in monthly amounts and net amounts. It's a fair amount of money. If you really want to get your AOW in five years earlier, you're gonna have to get a decent pension. You're gonna lose the whole pension, I'm gonna say. That's the choice you make. That would not be the choice of the Labour Party, because it is a different principle. That is: how do we look at people who have worked incredibly hard, have done hard work and do not have such a high income? My second question concerns the budgetary implications of this proposal. I've been looking for that. The proposal is neutral over the very long term, because you take the actuarially fair discount, but in the short term it simply costs a lot of money. In the note following the report, we read on page 15 how the initiator intends to cover this. He proposed that this be financed temporarily from the funds normally used for helping the work of the re-integration budget for 62-plussers. My group does not think that this is a very good proposal for cover. First of all, it's about billions, and as far as I'm aware, that's not in that range at all. I would like to receive a response from the initiator. Secondly, these are resources that we believe are all necessary to help people get on the labour market. It is precisely from that group that the money is taken to cover this proposal. We have big problems with that. I therefore ask the author to come up with other proposals for cover and real proposals for cover that really keep up with the cost of this proposal. I have one more question. The initiator says that you can start the AOW five years earlier but also five years later. The latter will give you a significantly higher AOW. Now five years longer, it is best for people who want to do it, who can do it easily and who are physically able to do it. Perhaps that is what we belong to in this Chamber. But it is not for people who have to work day in, day out on their knees or on shiftwork. It's complicated, isn't it? Why didn't the proposer choose a lower yield for longer working? After that, you could take a closer look. That's a suggestion, because five years later your AOW recording gives you a much bigger AOW. I did not calculate that; I would also like to see some more calculations of this. For which group is this about? Apart from this example, we also have questions about duty of care; I believe that Mr Ulenbelt had them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	I have a very short question. Mrs Vermeij rightly said that this is also included in the electoral programme of the Labour Party. Should I take the question she just asked in such a way that you should not calculate actuarially, but with a much lower than current percentage, both up and down? Is that the PvdA line with regard to the flexible AOW? Did Mrs Vermeij ask an open question or is this actually the line of the PvdA? I am very curious to see whether this means that Mrs Vermeij does not want to recalculate actuarially neutral, forward and backward. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	No, that's still being worked out in our election program. We're gonna get some pieces back that go over that. Our election programme now includes a flexible AOW that can start from 65 years of age. There is no such effect yet, but you can be sure that we will make good proposals for cover in our bill. By the way, there is also the phrase "a reasonable discount." You have already heard this discussion, because we have been having it for a long time. As you know, the Labour Party is working on this because it is sometimes incredibly complicated for a group of people who have worked for a long time, who have made little money and done hard work to reach the finish line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	I am particularly touched by Mr Klein's argument about freedom of choice, but I also see Mrs Vermeij's argument. The Labour Party starts at 65 years. The AOW age will rise to 70 in the coming years. Do I understand correctly that you can include AOW in the final picture of the Labour Party five years earlier, or even more if the AOW age is even higher than 70 years old, as is currently the case in some sums?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	We're not there yet. We haven't established that either. In five years, we're gonna be 67 years or something up there. You're a step forward now. This election program has been written for the next four years. So it would be two years. That's less than five years. This also includes a very different financial picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mrs. Vermeij, you're moving on. You are already well over your speaking time, but you can of course finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	Yeah, I'm gonna finish it quick! This proposal also raises questions about the obligation of care. Who's gonna take care of this? And how do we ensure that people make the right financial assessment? Mr Klein replied to the questions from various political groups that anyone who did not ask for anything would simply receive AOW on the date set, but that anyone who wanted advice would have to take an advisor. That's a bit of a weird thing, because we don't want people to end up in situations where they make a choice, but then they don't really know what financial consequences it will have for the rest of their lives. We would like a more detailed explanation of this, not the rather easy sentences as they appear in the note on the report. These were my questions. I hope for careful answers from the initiator, especially on the budget, because that is extremely important for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Klein and the people who support him on being able to defend an initiative legislative proposal in plenary today. It is always a great asset when MPs exercise this constitutional right to make their own proposals as a parliament. I'm allowed to speak from my own experience. In any case, I always found it very special to be able to take the place in box-K. When I look at Mr Klein, I am sure that is true of him today. That is quite right. My group is sympathetic to the idea behind this bill, namely that we are all different and that it can have added value to give people more space to get the AOW going sooner or later. This proposal is also reflected in the D66 electoral programme. We too, like the Labour Party, are in the process of clarifying this. This offers people the chance to retire a little earlier, record their AOW and then get a lower AOW per month or just a little longer working and then get a higher AOW. Mr Ulenbelt asked a number of pertinent questions about usefulness and necessity. I am convinced of the usefulness and necessity, but I think it is right that Mr Klein should deal with these questions in detail. I agree with a number of more precise questions put by Mr Ulenbelt. That saves time again. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament has made two points. They are also explicitly included in my party's election programme. The first comment is that if people take up AOW earlier, they should not be left with too low an AOW after their retirement date, which means that they should have recourse to the supplementary income provision for older people (AIO), say the supplementary assistance for people who are retired. I would find that an unfortunate situation, because then the collective will be called upon. We are in favour of an actuarially neutral calculation: you should not move into the AOW with money between people. That would at least mean the basic idea of the AOW. The Council of State says that this idea is at all critical. I don't have that conviction. I am curious, by the way, what the Secretary of State thinks of this criticism by the Council of State. However, I think it is wise not to pursue a policy of income through the degree of reductions in the AOW premiums. As far as I'm concerned, it's at your own risk and expense if you take AOW out of your own expected later AOW benefits. In Mr Klein's proposal this seems secure, but I do not think it is precise enough to say with certainty that there will be no recourse to supplementary assistance. Can Mr Klein say something about that? A second precondition that my party attaches to the proposal is that it should not have a negative impact on the sustainability of public finances. That is where the proposal comes in, I say honestly, starting from the fact that the short-term coverage does not convince me. Covering from reintegration funds does not seem to me to be sufficient to finance this. This creates the image that older people should not work anymore and that we do not want to help them to work anymore. It is precisely the aim of my group that people who want to work should be supported. I find the coverage unfortunate and totally inadequate. I would like to receive a response from Mr Klein. The sustainability of public finances also appears to be under serious pressure. Mr Klein downplays the accounts, but the Central Planning Office is the mathematician. With all due respect to the studies mentioned by Mr Klein, my group is absolutely not convinced. I ask him to pass on this plan to the CPB prior to his response, both on short-term costs and on their impact on the sustainability of public finances. The CPB can do that. I find the argument that Mr Klein does not share the CPB's considerations interesting. However, my group attaches great importance to this, and I am guessing that more parties do. As far as we are concerned, this sustainability must not be called into question. Moreover, I do not think that the form 'at least five years-plus five years' does by definition fit into that shelf life. I would like to look forward to Mr Klein's plan being passed on, both in the short and in the long term. Finally, I would ask Mr Klein to respond to CNV's concern that people will be forced into a form of part-time AOW. I thought that was an intriguing thought. I do not want people ever to feel obliged to use this, so I ask Mr Klein to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr Van Weyenberg says that you should not move money between people, but with the current AOW, is that the case? Grosso modo live low-skilled seven years shorter than highly educated. This means, by definition, that money goes from low-skilled to highly educated. It's okay to make a correction to that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	Especially when we look at the whole pension system, I very much agree with Mr Ulenbelt. I would like to thank him for the opportunity to clarify my words. In any case, I would like to resolve this in the supplementary pensions. Mr Ulenbelt knows the proposals of my group. An example of such a correction would be that people would be allowed to withdraw part of their money at once, because perhaps people with a slightly lower life expectancy would rather use it. The point is that I would like to recalculate actuarially neutral. This could still have an impact on public finances, as people have lower incomes after retirement and, for example, call for allowances. I would also like to take that effect for granted, but I would like to do it actuarially neutral in the level of benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	Yes, but then money continues to be pushed from poor to rich. You can be for the rich, Mr Van Weyenberg, but they catch a lot more from the AOW than people who don't make that much money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	I think we should keep two debates apart. We can have a whole debate here on the income policy of the AOW. I always look forward to doing so with Mr Ulenbelt. Sometimes we agree, but sometimes we don't. The question now is: do you think it is fair to give people the chance to record AOW earlier? And does that fit with the character of public insurance? The Council of State says no. D66 says: yes, we can, but that has an impact on public finances, and that must be guaranteed. I'm attached to an actuarially neutral recalculation. As far as I am concerned, that is the starting point. I think this is about trying to come up with a proposal that does justice to the wishes of people and to the choices people want to make. I think that's the goal. Mr Ulenbelt makes a different assessment in this respect, but I am still looking forward to covering all his plans. I am, of course, extremely curious as to whether the passing on of his election programme 65 turns out to be 65 this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks from the PVV to Mr Klein for this initiative proposal. The right of initiative is beautiful; it has been remembered by several people. You will only be in the European Parliament, then you have no right. For example, the Supreme Soviet had no such right. Well, here we have it. So it is a beautiful thing about our democracy that we can make use of it. The PVV is not directly rejecting it, I mean not as half negative as that sounds, but you have to find a wording for that against the petitioner's proposal. A flexible starting date for the AOW is sympathetic, as people seem to get more freedom of choice in the financial implementation of their old age. This gives freedom and people are given more direction about how the AOW is paid out by them. In the proposal by the author, Mr Klein, it is possible, therefore, that I have calculated it for the situation that is to come to pass in order to allow the AOW to start between 62 and 72 years. If I'm wrong, if in some cases that's from 61 years old, forgive me, but you still have to choose a fixed moment. The PVV, on the other hand, chooses to let the AOW simply start at 65 years. Most people are very happy about that. They're counting on it, and they're happy about it. Perhaps you can also count on, for example, 65 years as a starting point to become flexible; I will come to that in a moment. According to the complainant, there are almost no additional costs. That looks good, but Mrs Vermeij and other speakers said just now that we are, of course, a bit difficult to cover in the short term. The PVV agrees with the objections raised by other parties in this regard. I have the following questions to the author in the first term. How much does the proposal cost with a flexibilisation from 65 years of age as a starting point? Now it seems that the petitioner solves a cabinet problem with a cigar from his own box. Why does the author think that this proposal is better than just an AOW at 65 years without flexibility? Why offer flexibility if the government is not doing anything about the purchasing power of the elderly, or it is only deteriorating? Flexibility costs purchasing power for those who want their AOW before, because there is less payout and of course a higher percentage of tax has to be paid. Has the author given sufficient thought to this and taken it into account in the calculations? How many older people with lower incomes can let their AOW enter without getting into the poverty trap? This has already been mentioned by several speakers. Not everyone can start another presidential campaign at 69. That's not everyone's choice. There are a lot of people on their knees. Not everyone can set half the United States on fire with their billionaires' background at 85. In the meantime, has there not been too much purchasing power handed over by almost pensioners and pensioners, which means that this proposal will only concern the happy few or the 1%, the one percenters, as it is called in America? So it is a sympathetic proposal, but we fear a little, and with a joking tone, that it is only for the richer AVRO member who has money left for cigars, so that one can indeed be smoked out of his own box earlier. Can Mr Klein take away this fear for us? I come to the questions to the cabinet. The cabinet is afraid that people and masse will retire sooner. The Secretary of State is representing the cabinet today. My first question to her is: isn't that fear the ultimate proof that policy is not right? What's with the fear? This cabinet has raised the AOW age to 67 years, then accelerated it again and recently it became known that due to the increase in life expectancy, from 2022 an additional three months of work will have to be done. This Secretary of State has therefore done everything she should not have done and made it unnecessarily difficult for working Netherlands. This week it turned out that apart from Sweden, the Dutch are the longest working of all Europeans. That's what Eurostat says. Let's believe them this time. A 15-year-old Dutchman is expected to be part of the working population for 40 years. We like hard work, you know, at the PVV, very hard work. The same applies to the Netherlands. That's really Dutch culture. We have achieved a great deal with that, great and beautiful. But the question is, who are we still working for? A lot of people in the Netherlands, who are watching at home, wonder: what am I doing it for, who am I still doing it for? I have the answer. We are doing it mainly for mass immigration, for open borders. We're doing it for 59,000 asylum seekers alone in 2015. We are doing it for the EU and for the debt countries of southern Europe. People feel like they're crazy Henkie. We are indeed the crazy Henkie like the Netherlands, the crazy Henkie of the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	With all due respect, I believe that we are dealing with Mr Klein's own-initiative proposal on a flexible AOW age. Mr De Graaf is free to make his contribution, but I wonder if we are gradually not getting slightly out of hand. I can go back to interrupting and trying to pry through all this nonsense, but I would like to pay attention to Mr Klein's initiative. I think that's a nice thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	I have an introduction to a number of questions to the Secretary of State. Thank you to Mr Van Weyenberg for his interruption. It's not bullshit I'm telling you. I can level that out right away. It's the embedding in the totality we live in. Billions have been spent on it. I will make it a little shorter to meet Mr Van Weyenberg. The people at home do wonder why Rutte II had money left for all that and not for the AOW'ers. We want to take the AOW age back to 65 years. We want to take good care of our elderly. Mr Klein wants that, too. But the elderly do not have to, and for that the introduction was meant to solve a government problem by paying for it themselves. I wanted to remind you of that one more time. That's why I just mentioned all these problems. Because it means reducing purchasing power to solve a government or government problem. For us, the choice is crystal clear. The PVV chooses working Netherlands and we choose our elders. We will await the answers of the author, but above all those of the Secretary of State, and then we will take our position on the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Klein for having had the courage to come forward with an initiative proposal and congratulate him on being here. It's a special moment for a Member of Parliament. For the second time in a short time a few weeks ago, we discussed with each other his initiative paper on basic income and he shows that as a Member of Parliament he does not shy away from setting up subjects for which there is support in society, but also subjects that are rather large and complex. This proved to be the case during the examination of the basic income own-initiative paper, in which the coverage proposal that was discussed on the spot showed how extensive and complicated it is. Many of my questions about this bill have already been asked by my predecessors. I will therefore focus on a number of additions to that. Mr Klein has already responded extensively to Mr Weyenberg's speech. In addition, I would like to update the Council of State's firm criticism of this proposal. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to that. Mr Van Weyenberg has just indicated that concerns have been expressed by the CNV about the effects that the proposal could have. I would like to mention the very critical letter from the Union of CEDEFOP. The Union of CEDEFOP has been quite clear about the fact that it considers the proposal undesirable. She also points to the risks of poverty. They are the same risks that the CNV points out: the risk that employers take this into account in their offerings, for example in the case of a social plan and that it is perceived as an attractive option. And as the Union of CEDEFOP writes, does Mr Klein's proposal not overestimate the financial awareness of people? Isn't the risk of structural poverty high, especially for people who, at the end of their career, feel the pressure of the years, opt for the short term, but in the long term, turn in a lot of AOW? I think that Mr Klein's answer is a little too easy to overcome this risk by referring to the AMvB. With the structural income requirement, all risks would be nil. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has already indicated that he does not yet find that convincing. I don't think it's convincing either. I would like Mr Klein to address in detail the risks posed by the CNV, i.e. that it becomes part of negotiations with employers, that people are less financially aware than Mr Klein is assuming and that there are not all kinds of risks of poverty, one of the reasons why the Union is so critical. I'd like him to elaborate on that. I think that in recent years all the members of this committee have seen various examples of problems arising in implementation when something goes from simple to complex. The SVB is an example of recent years. I think we have also seen examples around the daily wage-WW. We have seen all kinds of examples coming along in which the implementation adjustments led to major problems. A recent one I have had to deal with myself is the implementation of maternity leave for parents with multiple births. It was a very small amendment and this week was the answer to questions. Because of the complexity, everything that has to be restored has gone wrong. In my opinion, the author in his written reply states that the social benefits of the proposal outweigh any implementation problems. With all the implementation problems that we have seen in many complex legislation in recent years, but also in non-complex legislation, I would like to have some clarification. The core is that it is not complex now, but that it is becoming complex. On what basis does the applicant base the assumption that the benefits are obviously greater than the possible implementation problems? On the financial implications, both short-term and structural, I agree with previous questions from both the Labour Party and D66 on real coverage proposals. Mrs Vermeij rightly pointed out that there is a rather large difference between the size of the pot of cover and the cost. I would like to highlight one specific point. This is about strategic behaviour. It should be noted that there is a potential for strategic behaviour. We have also seen this before in the case of measures. I remember the extraordinary cuts in expenditure over the last 15 years. I believe that the cost was once estimated at EUR 90 million. Due to unforeseen strategic behaviour, it cost a multiple of the estimated amount within a few years. The final amount was in billions. In theory, strategic behaviour can also play a major role here. So people are going to calculate whether it gives them an advantage or not, coupled with life expectancy and you name it all. Is that to be foreseen and does Mr Klein take that into account in his coverage? Does he want to go into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. From this point of view, I would like to thank Mr Klein for the initiative he has taken. I agree with those colleagues who remember his perseverance. It's really nice that he's put himself on such a complicated subject. That's really commendable. Many parties in the Chamber agree with the purpose of this bill, including the VVD. Why is that even so? We see that the increase in the age of AOW is very difficult for many people. They're afraid they won't last till they're 67. People who are now facing retirement age saw older colleagues go with the VRS before. Now they're gonna have to work on their own longer than they expected. Makes them feel like they don't have a choice. This proposal for an initiative gives them that choice. That's a good thing. The VVD is for freedom of choice. At the same time, I wonder whether the purpose of this proposal will be achieved with this initiative. People have to be able to choose when to retire. My colleague Mr Lodders also made proposals for this in the previous period, for example on the flexibility of the AOW and the part-time AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mrs. Schut says you can also record it in a flexible AOW earlier. That's what the VVD's for, but now I've taken her election program. There is indeed a flexible AOW in it and perhaps I am wrong, but if I read it correctly, it says that you can let it go later but not earlier. Then it doesn't seem like a solution for people who want to stop a little earlier. Or did I misunderstand the election program?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	That's right. I was just talking about the proposals made by Mr Lodders in the previous period, in 2011 and 2012, for the flexibility of the AOW. It is true that we have designed flexibilisation in our election programme in such a way that it will pay if you continue to work longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	That is a clear choice, but what puts me on the wrong track is what Mrs Schut said at the beginning of her speech, namely: the aim is that you should be able to stop doing something earlier because it is difficult to continue, and I think that is positive. Apparently that isn't the case anymore, because that's not in the VVD programme anymore. That's okay, but I got put on the wrong foot by the warm words about stopping earlier, which I couldn't quite place on the program of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	We are in favour of flexibility in the AOW, but this should always be within the framework, taking into account employment effects, sustainability effects and financial impacts. We support the principle that you should be able to allow your AOW to be flexible, but within the frameworks that work must pay on the one hand, and that it does not cost jobs and does not create sustainability deficits on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	I fully share that, but if you look at the CPB sums, you can also do so by saying: one year earlier, five years later. I'm just saying. But the VVD has explicitly chosen to say: rather should not be allowed. That's what the VVD election program is, isn't it? You can't go before, but if you let your AOW enter later, it's a little higher. That's the choice the VVD is making right now. I'm fine with that, but then I don't think it's very nice to start by saying warm words about being able to retire earlier. After all, you can no longer do that to the current state of the VVD-thinking. Again: fine, but then I would put that in the spotlight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr Lodders has tabled amendments in the past that have made the AOW more flexible back and forth. Those amendments were adopted in the House of Representatives. In the end, that bill did not go through, but the VVD did make these proposals itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	That was back in the day. Back in the day, Rutte also promised €1,000. That didn't happen. This didn't happen either. It's about the future now. On the one hand, Mrs Schut has warm words for those who have difficulties towards the end of their working lives. Then she says: flexibilising can be a solution. But in the answers, Mrs Schut is very clear: that is only true for longer work, which these people cannot do. She doesn't have a solution for that, does she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	The VVD is for flexible handling of the AOW, so for the freedom of choice of people. We are absolutely in favour of that. However, we are critical of the employment effects of the present proposal, and so are the effects on the sustainability balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	I understand. But Mrs Schut-Welkins referred earlier to a flexible AOW, and people think that it can go into it sooner than 65 years old. But you can't do that with the VVD. The flexibilisation is only going one way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	I repeat myself. The VVD is in favour of the purpose of this law. In fact, our electoral programme says that flexibility is ahead of us. But we are generally in favour of a two-way flexibilisation. That is what we have been in the past. But it must be affordable and it must not have an unbridgeable impact on employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mrs Schut-Thanks to her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	We were just discussing Mr Lodder's proposals. The aim of these proposals was to reward work after the age of AOW by a lower load and a higher AOW. The VVD also included this in its new election programme. I ask the petitioner how this bill works for those who want to stop working earlier. In the opinion of the VVD, Mr Klein does not offer a solution on this point. We understand that people must already have an income at minimum level, in addition to an early AOW pension. If that fails and people's income drops unexpectedly, the AOW is cut by 30%. That's a big deal. People may then have to call for additional assistance. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Then people, after they've stopped working, come from the rain in the drip. Instead of enjoying their old age, they keep worrying. The Council of State also considers this to be a major objection. Other colleagues have also mentioned this. We ask the author to reflect further on this, as other Members have asked. We note, together with other colleagues, that this bill costs jobs on balance, while we need so many more people on the labour market. I refer to 0.4% employment and EUR 3 billion increase in charges. Mr Klein has strongly argued that there is research that will be passed on to another. Well, that suits him, but we'll eventually follow the CPB calculations. As far as the questions of coverage are concerned, I agree with my colleagues Van Weyenberg and Vermeij. Does the petitioner really have solid coverage proposals? This is extremely important for the VVD. Finally. The VVD fully agrees with the aim of this initiative, namely freedom of choice and the conviction that working should pay off. But the negative impact on jobs and the uncovered 3 billion hole, together with the feasibility, are reasons for the VVD to be critical of this bill for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	We came here at the end of the first term of office. I would once again like to thank the initiator, who has been listening, the colleagues, the Secretary of State and the support staff. The initiator will respond at a later date. This will be discussed so that he can prepare himself for it.
