ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u1	Mr. Chairman. It's a lot of technique, but it does lead to practice. In any case, the SP wants to say here that it is not in favour of the introduction of personal funding. We have taken this view on a number of occasions. I have three motions on this experiment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the experiment, personal funding should be provided to all patients who receive their care through in-kind care and choose a healthcare provider in the two participating regions to participate in the experiment;]] [[noting that participation in the experiment requires a large role of the patients, who are far from always mature and regularly seriously ill, who are not always able or willing to take on a role;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no patient is forced to participate in the experiment, even if they wish to receive care in kind from a provider in one of the two participating regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the experiment will take place in two regions, Rotterdam and South Limburg;]] [[having noted that the South Limburg region indicates that additional resources are needed already in 2016 to enable sufficient independent customer support and that an intensification in 2017 and 2018 is necessary for both regions;]] [[Considering that it is important that there are sufficient independent customer supporters available in both regions to effectively support the client intensively in making the right choice within the next-person funding experiment;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure sufficient independent customer support in both experimental regions before the experiment enters into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all organisations in the two experimental regions will participate in the next individual funding experiment;]] [[noting that the forerunner of the next person's funding, the care gravity financing, led to less staffing and more flexible contracts including the running of broken services;]] [[calls on the Government to analyse the experiment specifically for the impact on staff deployment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-143]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-144]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u2	I have a question of conscience to the SP. I suppose Mrs Leijten is always in favour of that. What is the difference between the personal budget and subsequent funding for the SP at its core? I am asking this particularly with regard to the issue of self-determination, the provision of tailor-made work and the possibility of directing your own life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u3	I think there's a degree of misdirection in both because someone else decides for you what the budget is. You always have to operate within those frameworks. With the personal budget it is a choice of people. They must be able to manage it themselves and they must be able to manage it themselves. We all know how complicated that is sometimes. If you are going to introduce personal funding into the experiment, then it requires a lot of commitment from the residents in relation to their care plan and so on. I actually think that personal circumstances should always be looked at and that this should not only be possible in an experiment. If you're gonna pay per inhabitant, you're gonna have to answer to each resident. When residents die in the care of the elderly sometimes wave movements occur and sometimes several people suddenly die in a certain period of time; that often depends on the weather condition you can get into the situation that suddenly there is no funding for the department. So you have a big problem with continuity. One of the analyses that I have made of the care-gravity funding, whereby a continuous confidence in a budget on which you can at least estimate your staff planning, is that by looking at each care-gravity package, you have really looked at peak moments. At peak moments, when people get out of bed, get washed and dressed and get food, there is plenty of staff, but if there are fewer moments of care, there is understaffing. We all know that there is a need for supervision and attention at those times in the care of the elderly. That kind of thing is less appreciated in that care-gravity financing. That has led to a discrepancy. But we have had this debate endlessly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u4	Okay, then we're not gonna go into it too much, then we're not gonna use all night for this. We will also have to deal with the budget for infrastructure and the environment. But you may ask a brief follow-up question, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u5	Only a short answer would have been needed, not a very technical treatise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u6	You asked a question of principle, a question of conscience. That kind of question sometimes leads to long answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u7	I think you can answer a question of conscience with "yes" or "no." I think it's very simple. Are you, Mrs Leijten, for a personal budget and for personal funding because then the client is really central? I'd say "yes" twice. But if you are against personal funding, then you are actually against the personal budget. I think it's in your election program, too. I think you need to be clear about this now and give me hoo-hoo or hoo-hoo. You cannot be against personal funding at the same time and for the personal budget. Where exactly are you standing, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u8	The personal budget is of great value and therefore has absolutely a place in our healthcare system. But in the case of a residential facility, where you simply have to rely on a certain basis, such as staff and good food, you should not pay per person. Then you break the continuity of that kind of basic business. So I can't answer with "yes and yes" or "no and no." I'm not going to. The reality of your drawing board, which is that everyone has a budget with money and can thus enforce good care for themselves, is far more relentless than you think. These are old people, who are often very dependent. Since the closure of care homes, they have often been at a much further stage of dependence and dementia. You give them so-called self-determination, but it may not be there at all anymore. I consider the continuity of care and the attention that can be given through continuity of funding to be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u9	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about personal funding because the Chamber has adopted an amendment from me and Mr Potters, which has been incorporated into the Long-Term Care Act. I am pleased with that, because I am convinced that a lot of discussions we are having here on the quality of nursing homes, for example, could be very different if people could decide to go with the bag of money intended for them to a place where good quality is delivered. I therefore welcome these experiments. Reading all the pieces, however, gives me a question. When you read the pieces, you see lots of conditions, lots of system conditions, lots of demands, lots of accountability moments. My question to the Secretary of State is actually quite simple: what is the point in the experiments of the client, the patient, the person who needs care? How can we ensure that, once we have had the experiments, it will ultimately benefit vulnerable people most and not all kinds of institutions and companies around them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u10	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the CDA's words. It is very important that we actually carry out this experiment now. Mrs Keijzer also points out that this is the time to regulate self-determination for those very vulnerable groups, so that they can make their own choices when it comes to care. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas personal funding offers more opportunities for clients to make their own choices about the care best suited to their individual needs and wishes;]] [[considers that more opportunities for clients to choose their own provider in the longer term will encourage healthcare providers to improve and innovate the quality of care provided;]] [[having noted that in 2017 and 2018 in the South Limburg region there will be two experiments for the care and care sector and in the Rotterdam region for the care of the disabled person;]] [[invites the government, in the event of positive results with these experiments, to identify new experiments in other regions of the Netherlands in the course of 2017, so that more clients can make their own choices about care that suits them best,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Potters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34104-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u11	If you want everyone to be able to choose, you have to make sure that there is enough supply everywhere. How is Mr Potters going to ensure that there are no waiting lists for nursing homes and that people can opt for a protected environment where they can live safely without being at the end of their lives at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u12	I think that's a good question. What matters is that you have to be able to choose for yourself what is the best offer. Now a lot of institutions have a certain offer because you have your indication running there and then you depend on what the provider offers. With personal funding, we're really gonna turn that around. It won't apply to all clients. I agree with Mrs Leijten. There are clients and groups who want to decide for themselves what is the best provider and the best product they can get for this. They do not want it to depend on the one provider in the region where they happen to be. I would say to Mrs Leijten that she withdraws her position and goes along with it for funding, because I think that is exactly what many people in her constituency also need. They want to be able to make their own choice about care nearby.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u13	You are eligible for a nursing home location if you have very severe loss of direction in your own environment. If you still have some degree of direction, you have to stay home from this cabinet. And then saying that personal funding allows people to choose is really a twist in the head. That's how people are hindered when they want to choose. Then Mr Potters should be a man and say that there is sufficient supply, that there is no more fusion, that there should be no more large institutions and that they should be 'defused'. At least we're not gonna close the nursing homes and you can't just end up in a nursing home if you can't really direct yourself anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u14	I think that's a big difference between the SP and the VVD. Mrs Leijten is based on systems and on the provision of institutions, and for us what the client really wants should be put at the centre. In the case of a subsequent person's funding, in a number of cases, clients may be much more directing the care they want rather than being at the mercy of the offer. I really do not understand why Mrs Leijten would not want to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u15	That brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. Is the Secretary of State able to respond or does he want to suspend for a few minutes? I would ask the spokesmen if they would like to speak through the President, because speaking directly also provokes the tendency to react to it. The request is therefore to do so through the President. I see that the Secretary of State is now in a position to begin replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u16	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mrs Leijten's first motion. 143. I have a feeling she's assuming an assumption that's not right. There is no forced participation of clients in the experiment. The duty of care remains paramount. The care gravity will therefore have to be tailored, even if clients do not participate themselves. Care is bought in with more freedom of choice. So the client's choice is followed. That may be a very conscious client who necessarily wants to go to a particular institution and that means that institution gets the money, but in many cases there will be talk that clients have not chosen at all or have not been able to choose or choose, but are going to join that institution. Then that institution will be financed in that way. So it leads, on the one hand, to very consciously electing clients who have strong preferences and therefore vote with their feet, but I agree with Mrs Leijten that there will also be a lot of people who cannot or do not want to do so at all. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 144 is requested to ensure sufficient independent customer support in both experimental regions before the experiment enters into force. Indeed, that customer support is essential. In order to prepare the experiment, consultations will take place with the healthcare offices, so that sufficient resources are made available for customer support. In order to avoid misunderstandings about the importance that I, too, attach to customer support, I leave this motion to the House. In the motion in part No. 145 the government is invited to analyse the experiment specifically for the impact on staff deployment. Indeed, I intend to include the effects of healthcare providers' staff in the evaluation. That element is therefore involved, and that is why I leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 146 stresses that it should not only be considered as an experiment if this goes well, but should be part of the regular way in which care is purchased. That's very important. You can see that we are slowly changing from purchasing based on the distribution of budgets to purchasing by healthcare agencies that take more and more account of the client's wishes. This is going to be very helpful in redistributing halfway through the year. We move on to a situation where the client himself gets to say more about the care purchase. Then we're gonna have other issues. Mrs Leijten mentioned a few. What does it mean for the continuity of institutions? To what extent does that occur? With positive results, it is good to see whether it can be widened further. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mrs Keijzer asked if there would be too many rules. That is indeed a danger that we must bear in mind. After all, the intention of this movement is that we should be able to buy care with less rules and more attention to what the client wants. The rules are meant to put the client in a position to make the choice. For example, if you say to someone "choose the care offer you want," you want to guarantee in advance that the healthcare offer meets certain standard quality requirements, so that the client can choose the provider of his preference. This will be intensively supported. I would like to say to Mrs Keijzer that an explicit review of this instrument should be that administrative burdens do not increase but decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u17	I welcome this commitment, but my question also saw the following. How do you ensure that it is not a game of interest between healthcare agencies, healthcare institutions and healthcare companies, but really an experiment designed to put the client in a position so that he or she can ultimately determine where he or she gets the care from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u18	I think the experiment is going to teach us that. I think it's really helping. It is not the case that each health care office can make its own quality policy, with all kinds of separate registrations. There must be certain minimum requirements that the healthcare provider must meet. Then we follow the client's choice in the funding, whether it is a conscious choice or not. Indeed, patients and clients should not be forced to make very difficult choices that they may not want to make, but others do. We really feel the same way about that. It must lead to freedom for the clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u19	Mrs Leijten, in order to give the staff a break before the next debate starts, I should like to conclude. I appeal to you: could you perhaps raise your point in a subsequent debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u20	Can the evaluation include whether people can actually choose to make their choice? In other words, can they go wherever they want?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u21	That's never gonna apply to a hundred percent. It is not the case that care institutions are empty and waiting for clients; fortunately not. It is true that clients have preferred their beliefs, the quality of life as they were used to, or the proximity of the care institution. That's what we notice in conversations we have with clients. I think it's important that we put the client at the wheel a little bit more, so that more account is taken of the client's wishes. That will lead to client wishes. Suppose there are a lot of wishes for an offer that there isn't yet. This will promote new offers that better meet the requirements than the existing ones. That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-26.u22	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I would also like to thank the spokesmen.
