ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Manyzzp'ers are concerned if they can still work as entrepreneurs after abolishing the VAR. With these VARs,zzp'ers and their clients knew what they were up to and that disappears with the introduction of the model agreements to be approved by the Tax Administration. These model agreements will increase the risk to the client. There is a good chance that clients will become headstrong and hire fewerzzp'ers. It is still unclear on the basis of which criteria a model contract is approved or rejected by the Tax Administration. But it turns out to be even crazier. Already approved model agreements contain provisions that the risk for the client will again be entirely with the self-employed, according to recent reports by the Staatscourant Online. For example, the model contract for tennis teachers says literally: "The contractor shall indemnify the client for any fines or post-taxes from the Tax Administration." And so all the risk comes back to the self-employed. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore: does that not undermine the whole purpose of this law? The Secretary of State then says that that provision is not valid. However, it simply bears the approval stamp of the Tax Administration. Then why isn't it valid? Zzp'ers and their clients are in total confusion. Who else gets it? Kafka's nothing. Is this the deregulation the Secretary of State is seeking? Why does the Tax Administration approve model contracts with unlawful provisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. To Mr Van Weyenberg's very worrying but also great words, I will try to reassure him. The situation referred to by Mr Van Weyenberg comes from a blog in which the director of ZZP Netherlands has noted this. That gentleman is quite right in a way. This is all about the situation after the entry into force of the new DBA Act, which abolished the VAR Declaration. There are model agreements, which form the basis for the ex-ante assurance that there is no need to pay a wage charge. That security shall apply to the client. He used to have the VAR for that and now gets security from the Tax Administration in a different way in advance. But that security also applies to the contractor. That's new, because thezzp'er didn't have that certainty back in the day. Mr Van Weyenberg literally said that thezzp'ers used to know where they were going. That's not the case right now. Thezzp'er only knew that he had no right to social security and for the rest he couldn't be sure of anything. It is therefore a question of the guarantee in advance for both parties that there is no wage charge due. If the parties fail to comply with the example agreement, the Tax Administration can enforce payroll tax. So what can be told and what can't be told? The wage charge consists of a number of components: payroll tax, social security contributions, employee insurance contributions and income-related contribution. Two out of these four can be the one who has to contain it, so that is no longer a client, because he has now become an employer................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is always the case: the payroll tax is always paid by the taxpayer. That's true when you're an employee, that's true when you're an employee, and that's true when you have to pay taxes in a different way. The payroll tax has always been a tax tax that you simply have to pay. Logically, this can be explained, because it has to be paid anyway. The employee insurance contributions and the income-related contribution may not be recovered. In fact, there's a restraining order in the law. In this sense, therefore, we can see that it is careless in the model agreements. In fact, I agree entirely with Mr Van Weyenberg. The words "recharges" and "social insurance" shall be used. That's not true; it's sloppy language. It must be: the payroll tax and the social security contributions. These can be reclaimed by nature, but not by law. That needs to be adapted on the site and it will be done soon. Now Mr Van Weyenberg wants to know how mistakes can be made on the site. I once promised to the various stakeholders that was their wish that we would put the entire agreement on the site, with the Tax Administration of course assessing only the tax passages. But then again, in the non-fiscal passages there are things that are not entirely correct. In that respect, I have a little regret about this commitment. But the non-taxable but wrong things are being corrected on the whole. Far before the law comes into force, we must remove those mistakes. In that sense, the director of ZZP Netherlands, who noted this, is right. It's being corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	There is also a two-minute speaking time for directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Oh, dear!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	That applies not only to you, but to all rulers today. Mrs. Dijksma is listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	That error is good, but I do not think that the Secretary of State is sufficiently concerned about what is at the heart of what is happening here. A model agreement is agreed which contains provisions that are unlawful. The total is published with the image that it was nevertheless approved by the Tax Administration. This confuses clients and self-employed people. Let me give you an example. The Secretary of State says I'm just judging taxation. That's a bit of box thinking, isn't it? Soon, for example, there can be a model agreement on the website stating that as a zzp'er you can only get started if you are a member of the FNV. Yeah, say the Secretary of State, I didn't check on that, because that's not tax. But that's undesirable, isn't it? To make it even more colourful: there can be an agreement that onlyzzp'ers with red hair can get to work. According to the Secretary of State's reasoning, it can also simply be approved by the Tax Administration, because only the tax aspects are considered. The Secretary of State may say that they are not valid, but this kind of thing is then approved in the imagery by the Tax Administration. Zzp'ers and clients, who hear that you are not allowed to deviate from the model agreement, are confused, because how do you know which provision has been approved and which has not been approved by the Tax Administration? Would it not be a good idea for the reliability of the Tax Administration and the government that all model agreements are simply assessed and that any unlawful provision is simply removed and explicitly not approved? If that is not possible, it would be the least that the Secretary of State says neatly in every model agreement on the website: this and these are the provisions approved by the Tax Administration and I have no opinion on the other. In any case, there is more clarity for the self-employed and their clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'm trying to discover a red glow in Mr Van Weyenberg's hair, but I can't. That doesn't make him azzp'er right away. I have just said exactly what Mr Van Weyenberg is asking me to do. That is indeed undesirable. I don't need to ridicule that. The fact that we have not yet assessed this is therefore undesirable. That is what I said in the debate in the First Chamber. There was a provision that was not assessed, but is also not very correct. So, yeah, that's gonna come out. That is the promise. It is not my reasoning that it should not be, but that it should be. Mr Van Weyenberg asks me how people could have known that this provision was not assessed by the Tax Administration. It's on the site. The yellow marked ones have been evaluated, the other ones haven't. That's nice on the site. Nevertheless, I believe that we should not confuse people with yellow-marked and non-yellow-marked items, but should only mention in both passages things that comply with the law. I agree with him. I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	I assume that we will also be given a detailed record of how this process is going to proceed from now on. I do not have red hair. You don't need that as a friend ofzzp'ers, and you don't need that as azzp'er. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to look very strictly at these model agreements on the website of the Tax Administration, too, that these kind of weird provisions are simply not agreed, because they are really bad forzzp'ers and they lead to unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	I just made a promise that we're gonna take those provisions off. Now that I don't need red hair, I too can be a friend ofzzp'ers and there too Mr Van Weyenberg and I are in one camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	I just listened to the Secretary of State. The answers are clear. If I were azzp'er now, I wonder what information will take place in the near future. It's gonna be a while before it goes in. Good information seems essential to me. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	I happened to consult with the entire team this morning about the whole communication campaign. There must of course be communication with clients and with contractors. The special thing, but also the pleasant thing, is that the Tax Administration will do this together with the various organizations. This means that there are agreements with employers' organisations, but also with thezzp organisations to communicate together. That will happen in all kinds of ways. Intermediaries are also included. Finally, it is also useful to eliminate a number of persistent misunderstandings about the new legislation. People sometimes scare each other a little bit of nothing. Pre-security is the most important element of the new legislation. This means that we need to be clear about what is allowed, what is not allowed and how parties can work with each other. There's a whole campaign for that. I can't explain all that in two minutes. There will be a campaign on all target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	It's still a curious case. There are model contracts on the website of the Tax Administration that do exactly the opposite of what is intended, namely to lay the liability with the zzp'er, where he should lie with the client. Then there is also on the site: the Tax Administration has assessed the agreement solely with a view to providing security for working outside employment in the framework of the payroll charges. The Tax Administration is not liable for any consequences. In other words, you have to use this model according to the new law, but the contract is wrong and doesn't last in court. I would like to hear from the Minister on what date, within two weeks if possible, we can assume that a legal review has taken place on the contracts on the site. When zzp'ers take a contract off the site that they have to use under the new law, they should be able to use that contract in the knowledge that it is legally correct. Otherwise, a millionzzp'ers will have to seek legal advice on the contracts provided by the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	Let me say two things clearly, because there will undoubtedly bezzp'ers who are also worried about Mr Omtzigt's speech. Firstly, no, liability is not laid down, in any way, even in the contracts in question, solely by thezzp'ers. Both parties will be certain in advance if they follow the example meeting. Both parties are ultimately responsible for their own payments if they do not comply with them. If they do stick to that, they basically have both security in advance. It's really a symmetrical situation, which is not the case right now. Now only thezzp'er is the bitch if something goes wrong. That's where symmetry comes in. I would like to emphasise that. Secondly, it is not true that thezzp'er or the client should use such a contract. Anyone who wants to do it in a different way according to the law can always do so. Anyone who wants to submit a different way of working to the Tax Administration can always do so. Anyone who does not want to report it to the Tax Office, but who does comply with the regulations, is also doing it correctly. No one has to keep that contract. I promised, in consultation with colleagues in the First Chamber, an extensive legal review which will be completed in the fourth quarter. I have just promised that tax passage, which is obviously wrong, will be removed as much as possible in advance. The same goes for others, as far as there are. I just promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	When, is asked from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u16	The obvious wrong passages will be finished in at least two weeks. Furthermore, we have not yet discovered any errors, so it is difficult for me to make a commitment. That is something that is still being looked at. There will be an extensive legal review, which will be completed in the fourth quarter. So that's before actual enforcement begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u17	The subject is very much alive. I was approached in the schoolyard this morning by someone who has an agent's hour. A lot of photographers report to that agency. The question is at what level this information is provided. I can imagine that the Tax Administration and the Secretary of State and his team cannot go into any individual relationship, but will there be a hotline for people? People really want to comply with this law, but then they must be able to be helped quickly. Is that the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u18	Maybe it happens even more finely, because there is also extensive work on the idea of informing individualzzp'ers about the new rules. There is indeed a great deal of uncertainty. The joke of the new legislation is precisely that a great deal of ambiguity disappears and that it replaces clarity, but we are still too unclear about the new clarity and therefore we will try to approach thezzp'ers as finely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u19	We're still unclear about the clarity. I'm not following, but at least I have red hair, but I'm alsozzp'er here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u20	Do you have red hair?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u21	Yes, if you look closely, you'll see very well. And I'm a fiscalist, too. How can it all be? The other side of the coin must also be stressed, namely that false constructions by that law belong to the past and that people simply pay what is due to the government. Can the Secretary of State undertake that, as from the new legal system, we will also monitor how the number of post-taxes is then related to the number of post-taxes in the existing situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u22	That is not a meaningful comparison, because the essence of the situation now is that we are not really capable of reasonable enforcement. In that case, there is no substantive, extensive post-taxation either. To be honest, my idea for the new situation would be that we are not forced to pursue a comprehensive approach. After all, the ultimate goal must be to prevent false constructions and not to prevent them and then to fine them. At the moment, enforcement is very low because we are simply unable to maintain it. In the new situation, we would prefer to avoid it rather than to sign it; I would like to express it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-09-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you.
