ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u1	Madam President. I would like to start by thanking PAX, the Red Cross and the ASN Bank for raising this important issue with the Sign Against Nuclear Weapons initiative and more than 45,000 signatures. I welcome this important initiative because it has put the issue of nuclear weapons firmly on the national parliamentary agenda. That is good and necessary, because we are talking about extremely high-risk weapons that can have enormous humanitarian consequences and huge risks to our civilisation and to nature. It is good and necessary, because despite disarmament steps and non-proliferation efforts, with the greatest diplomatic success last year of the agreement with Iran, we are still too far away from the goal, zero nuclear weapons, which the government puts at the heart of its policy. It is also good and necessary, because we are living in a time that involves risks that are different from, for example, 1983 or 1985. Then, in this house, still in the old Chamber building, there was a very intense meeting about the possible placement of crusader weapons. Personally, I remember that very well. At that time, the debate was also about what we could do to get those manned weapons out of the world and how best we could deal with them at strategic and tactical level. In this sense, the urgency that is being devoted to this issue today is important. Even though this time is strategically different from the Cold War and we are dealing with far less nuclear weapons, the urgency is still great to stick to Global Zero. My ambition is and will continue to be to achieve and safeguard a world without nuclear weapons. I therefore once again congratulate the initiators of this citizens' initiative. The initiators also refer in their proposals to the context of the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. I would like to make a number of comments at the beginning. I would like to say something about the means chosen. I believe that we differ in this respect, not so much in principle as in terms of effectiveness, but we will undoubtedly return to the discussion on this subject in the near future. I would like to say something about the role of NATO in this and, of course, about the efforts of the Dutch Government to get to Ground Zero and to see how we can bring that closer in the most effective way. As far as I am concerned, the Dutch commitment can be described with three key words: ambition, right and result. The Netherlands currently plays a leading role in the international debate through its active diplomacy, reflected in the presidencies of the First Commission, the preparation of the Review Conference of the Non-Proliferation Treaty 2017, the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism and our hosting of the Nuclear Security Summit in the Netherlands. We're very active. I will go into the specific proposals and initiatives of the Netherlands later. We talked about the important Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty. I will deal with the Dutch commitment later in my speech. I will also explain what I am doing to implement Mr Knops' motions on transparency, an incredibly important matter, and Mr Sjoerdsma's on international talks on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. I will then give some examples of concrete ways in which we can achieve our objectives. Finally, I will describe how the introduction of a nuclear weapons ban in the short term relates to current policies. Let me begin with the humanitarian impact of nuclear weapons. The importance of realising ground zero has become clear in the conferences on the humanitarian impact of nuclear weapons in 2012, 2013 and 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u2	I see an outraged Mr Van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u3	No, Mr. Chairman. I want to remove confusion. The minister keeps talking about "Ground Zero," but that's different. He means "Global Zero."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u4	Can I use my own terms? Global Zero is about zero nuclear weapons in the world. Ground Zero is also used in many discussion groups in that area. If Mr Van Bommel prefers that, I say "Global Zero." I believe we all want the same thing, namely zero nuclear weapons in the world. If we can hold on to that, at least we'll use the same terminology. Perhaps it is better to do it in Dutch, to avoid any misunderstanding. I want to talk first about the humanitarian impact. During the meetings, new information was shared on the impact of nuclear explosions on our health and living environment, on other dangers associated with the survival of nuclear arsenals and on the fate of direct victims. Even after the poignant testimonies of the survivors of the atomic attacks on Japan, I listened very carefully to Mr Sjoerdsma, including the personal experiences in his family with them, those horrors remain unimaginable for everyone, especially those who have not experienced them. The Netherlands therefore considers that the consequences of a nuclear explosion would be catastrophic and disastrous. That is why, on 29 February, in my speech to the disarmament conference, I reiterated that not only do we have an expensive duty to pursue a world without nuclear weapons, but that, during this process too, I believe that this is very important when we talk about the strategy in the near future, we must do everything we can to minimise the risk of a nuclear explosion, for whatever reason. On the path, on the road, to that nuclear-free world, it is also important to minimise the risks. PAX and other colleagues of hers rightly point out these major humanitarian consequences. I myself am not convinced that there is an automatic link between the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons use and a nuclear weapons ban, a nuclear-free world. The aim is to prevent the victims of nuclear weapons. I think we need to talk today about what is the most effective means of doing this. We have also actively involved the RIVM in this regard, looking at the humanitarian consequences. It is important to ensure that all countries are present, including the P5. We're trying to encourage them to do that, but we can't always do that. This has to do with, among other things, seeing the open-ended working group as an outpost for negotiations on a nuclear weapons ban. In any case, this has been counterproductive in a number of respects. I will come back to that later. We are active in this working group and I believe that there are opportunities to move forward. However, it is a fact that it is currently polarizing and that a number of countries are not prepared to contribute constructively to it. I would like to return to what has been said about comments by the Secretary-General of the United Nations regarding international support for a nuclear weapons ban. They're less uniform than they might seem. Although several organisations have indicated their support for a ban, this does not apply to the United Nations, to the IAEA or to NATO, which are nevertheless leading international organisations in this context. The UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, has called on countries to take the lead in nuclear disarmament. That is a good thing in itself. We do so in many ways. This is precisely what the Secretary-General of the United Nations spoke to us about last week, about the positive initiatives we took under the NPT (non-proliferation treaty), the open-ended working group, the Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty (FMCT) and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT). In its five-step plan for nuclear disarmament, the Secretary-General calls for actions that are in line with the current Dutch policy. It is true that a majority of countries support the idea of an international ban on nuclear weapons. As we know, this does not include NATO partners and the nuclear-weapon possessing countries. This also applies to those countries which were mentioned as having a different policy on nuclear weapons on their territory. In any case, it is important that these humanitarian declarations should be able to push the debate on disarmament and the establishment of a Global Zero, a world without nuclear weapons. In that context, I would like to say a few words about the second element, and that is the question of how best to achieve it. We are also talking about the role of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Is that a route that goes too slow? In a way, of course, it's all going too slowly. Is the route being proposed a better one? It is never entirely in advance to prove what the best, most effective international route is to take significant steps forward. However, I would like to say something about the non-proliferation treaty, because I think that is at the heart of the grand bargain between nuclear owners and countries that are not and should not be nuclear owners. I'll come back to the point of law. A great deal has been said about this and about the fact that there would be a legal gap and that it should be filled. I believe that the core of a nuclear-free world is that it must be built on good, fair, verifiable and enforceable international agreements. Although the NPT is the basis for the disarmament process, it is highly likely that it will require a comprehensive international disarmament treaty at some point. I am therefore not against this in principle. Let me make that clear this afternoon. I am not opposed to a comprehensive international disarmament treaty. I'll add a few things. The NPT is the cornerstone of the global construction in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation of all 191 treaty parties. As you know, a number of states are not members. Until the NPT entered into force in 1970, there was no global rule of law prohibiting the possession of nuclear weapons or requiring disarmament. The NPT is still the only global treaty which lays down a partial ban on the possession of nuclear weapons. In addition, I think it is important to build on this, and the NPT contains the only legally binding obligation worldwide to engage in overall nuclear disarmament. It is also the only legally binding obligation to this effect, and that is the core in which the P5 has committed itself. Those are the countries that have nuclear weapons and we want them to give them up. The NPT is reinforced in the implementation of that obligation by several other legally binding and non-binding instruments. It is precisely there that the Dutch Government has taken a lot of initiatives over the past period. You can read it in the letters I sent you. Some examples are the conferences I just mentioned, but I think, if it has to be much more tangible, also of the nuclear summit treaty and bilateral treaties between the US and Russia, including the new START treaty. I will come back later on to the point of tactical nuclear weapons and arms control. How do we feel about the NPT? Is that too slow? Is that not going to work and should not actually take an accelerated route through a legal instrument, either national or international? Once again, I have no problem in principle internationally, but it is whether it increases or reduces the stability and risks of nuclear weapons. Although it is not clear exactly how many countries would have developed nuclear weapons without the NPT, it was predicted that there would eventually be 15 to 25 nuclear weapons states before entry into force. This number is still under ten. South Africa, Ukraine and Kazakhstan have abandoned their nuclear arsenal and joined the NPT. On the basis of agreements, the international community and Iran have resolved the Iranian nuclear programme crisis. The intensive verification is also really important. If you say you want to go to a nuclear weapons ban, you can legally record it, but it is obviously about how that is verified, how that reduction is achieved and how safe those weapons are. This intensive verification by the IAEA is also one of the foundations of the NPT. I still think that's the safest way to get to Global Zero. On the basis of the aforementioned agreements resulting from the NPT, at least part of the arms race between the major nuclear powers such as the US, Russia and China has ended. The number of nuclear weapons is still far too high for the Dutch government, but has fallen from 70,000 to 16,000 today. So we have to go much further. That is why it is so important that the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty does not only exist, but is also carried out. In any case, this means that nuclear tests have virtually ended. Finally, we must not forget how important it is to have shared fundamental standards in a treaty worldwide, which provide us with a common goal, a common framework and a platform for consultation and dialogue. It is precisely this approach that I consider important in relation to the role of the Netherlands in NATO; I shall speak about it in this way. The strategic concept must also include the elimination of nuclear weapons. Those are the effective means to do so. So I doubt the argument some people have put forward that a ban is necessary to reduce the risk of nuclear proliferation. The NPT, as demonstrated, is precisely the reason why nuclear arsenals are limited. Of course there is discontent, including with me, about the pace of nuclear disarmament of the nuclear states. Article 6 is also about the obligation to disarm. For me, that is the core deal between the haves and the portots, the countries that have nuclear weapons and the countries that do not have them. That's why I think this is still the core route to achieve that. That is also a reason for doing so in the Non-Proliferation Treaty in such a way that other countries see no reason to engage in the proliferation of nuclear weapons themselves. For this purpose, they have benefited only too much from the security and stability that the NPT has been offering for more than four decades. Now you will say: what do we do with Article 6? I think there might be an important key point there. Firstly, there are the conferences on the humanitarian impact. Of course, they do not make any difference to the facts on the ground, but it is important that these conferences have been held. Again, the Netherlands plays an active role in this, but the consequences are still limited. There is also the Open-ended Working Group on nuclear disarmament in 2016. I think that is progress. It is said that this is another working group. Unfortunately, everything is a working group, even when you start talking about global nuclear disarmament in a treaty. To be honest, I think that will take much more time, money and effort. In 2011, the new START Treaty came into force, reaching significantly lower limits for strategic nuclear weapons of the United States and the Russian Federation in 2018. The Netherlands is now actively involved in a number of initiatives, which, in my view, can lead to a reduction in nuclear weapons. Firstly, that is the initiative on disarmament verification. Because of the trust in the international strategic environment, it is incredibly important that if you abolish or reduce weapons, you are sure that this is actually being respected. That is a key point for the Dutch government. We are currently playing a central role in this. Secondly, we are talking about Fissile Material Cut-off Treations. Sorry about English, Madam President. Unfortunately these are all English terms, which are not very easy to translate into Dutch. The essence of this follow-up initiative is, of course, to ensure that means of delivery and the risks of nuclear weapons are immediately reduced. I will come back to transparency in a moment. I would also like to say something about the Test-Ban Treaty. I believe that a great deal still needs to be done after the de facto moratorium to ensure that it remains so. To be honest, I would like to say to everyone: let us not be naive about this. It is precisely a question of increasing confidence in these disarmament steps, which is verifiable, verifiable and perceptible. I would also like to point out that Article 6 of the NPT really contains three chronological steps for me: the end of the arms race, disarmament and a treaty with international control. In that sense, therefore, I do not see the roads mutually exclusive. I do see something in the periodicity. You will only be able to achieve a legal framework in the end if you do so on the basis of what everyone agrees on, namely Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. I don't think a nuclear weapons ban, national or international, is contrary to the NVP. I'll never use that argument. I would add that my impression is that there is little added value in a ban if the countries concerned do not sit at the same time and not even the verification is done in the way I have just said. I would like to speak on a number of points which relate to our own role. I think that the Netherlands wants to be at the forefront of a number of issues, particularly with regard to this joint agenda. Here's what I'm saying from the bottom of my heart. In the 1990s, I myself went into politics because of the issues of international security, including nuclear disarmament. I remember very well the debates over the years in the Lower House. In all the debates, from the cross-flight weapons to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban Treaty II, all kinds of legal instruments and the role of the International Court, it was always a question of how to move things forward and speed things up. I don't think there are any quick fixes. As far as I am concerned, it is going too slowly, but I would also point out that with simply declaring or prohibiting something illegal, especially if you do that alone, you will not put a lot of dents in a pack of butter. On the contrary: the important role that the Netherlands is playing now, I do not want to exaggerate it, but I will certainly not underestimate it too much. First of all, there is a huge commitment by the Netherlands within the framework of NATO to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in doctrines. That is an incredibly important point. We live best in a risky time. A number of spokesmen have pointed out how this is currently being discussed in the Russian Federation. There's a risk in that. This has to do with the feeling in the Russian Federation, rightly or wrongly, that it would be conventionally less strong than the West; I fear that this is partly a form of Cold War thinking. Tactical nuclear weapons could then in their experience become an instrument to de-escalate. I find that extremely risky. It is precisely the Dutch Government's commitment not to reflect this directly and not to do so again. We do not have much support for this, let me be honest: we are relatively isolated in this, but I am committed to this within NATO. I stand by the fact that at this very moment, when geopolitical relations are tightening and changing, nuclear disarmament or the role of nuclear weapons in military doctrines are becoming extremely important. That is what the Dutch Government is committed to, not just a little bit. That might be more important than anything else right now. Here's what I'm gonna say. Many Members have spoken of disarmament in relation to tactical nuclear weapons. Up to two times, the Netherlands has promoted the offer to negotiate the Russian Federation. Obama has asked the Russians twice, very recently, but they do not want to negotiate it. That's a bad thing. I can't change that. We will be working for it again. It has little to do with modernisation in itself, it has to do with the fact that the Russians are choosing a different strategy that has to do with the use of tactical nuclear weapons. When it is invested, people are less inclined to negotiate it. I'm sorry about that. As we know, the Dutch Government is not only concerned with reducing the role of nuclear weapons in the NATO doctrine, but also with arms control. I will do so again in the context of the NATO summit and in the light of what is being discussed strategically between the United States and Russia. I would point out that very large openings have been made by us and by the United States. Unfortunately, there's a njet on it. There is no way that we would not want to negotiate tactical nuclear weapons, quite the contrary. The example is on the table. Then there is the offer to move towards the removal of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe in consultation with the Russian Federation. Again, that's on the table. That was done by Obama as part of the follow-up to the new start. It has been repeated, but they are not prepared to do so. I think that is a problem, and I will do everything in my power to get on with it within the NATO-Russia Council. I believe that this is an effective policy to get weapons out of Europe. I also just said something about the nuclear doctrine. Yes, NATO is still a nuclear alliance, that's right. That is why it is important that we reduce the role of nuclear weapons. That's what I'm committed to. Then, as the Netherlands, you should not say 'we ban it in the Netherlands and then we are done with the problem', quite the contrary. There is no NATO country, which is also the case with the countries that have today been referred to as a national nuclear weapons ban. That just doesn't exist. That has to do with the exact same position that is being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u5	So far it has been a very clear statement from the Minister. He says that were almost his last words...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u6	I hope not!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u7	Figuratively speaking. I'm assuming the minister's gonna talk a little bit more. He said: I will do everything possible to fight movement for each other in the field of tactical nuclear weapons. Now I and the PvdA Group have suggested in the first term that we consider whether we can use those weapons, which everyone knows are also on Dutch territory, to make things smooth. I understand very well that the Minister cannot undertake an obligation to achieve results in view of Russia's attitude, but would it not be appropriate to consider, in the run-up to modernisation, whether arms should be temporarily removed from the territory, whether they could be permanently moved and whether the Russians could be moved to remove their weapons from Iskan and other areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u8	I'll answer that a little longer, if you'll allow me. As you know, I cannot comment on whether we have nuclear weapons here or not. I regret that, and I am working hard to change that. However, you cannot persuade me to change my mind through this question. I really come back to that point of transparency, because I think that is a national frustration, also for myself. Another point is modernisation and another point is how this would relate to arms control. Honestly, I don't think it has anything to do with each other. Modernisation of nuclear weapons on European territory is firstly a responsibility of, in this case, the United States and not of us. Secondly, it is known that several nuclear weapons states are working on modernisation. The details of this are not known. All I do know is that this is meant to keep weapons safe, secure and effective. We have no role of our own in this. It is in our interest that the weapons remain safe in themselves. That's what modernisation is all about. You'll always have to modernise. This is not a new type of weapon to use new strategies to conduct a kind of battlefield nuclear war gaming. Of course, we would have very serious problems with that. We are talking about a life extension programme, which is primarily the responsibility of the nuclear-weapon country. According to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, we do not have one. In that sense, it is difficult for me to put that into practice. I'm not about the modernisation. That's one. Secondly, the reasoning of the Russian Federation has nothing to do with whether we have tactical nuclear weapons. Their reasoning is that their nuclear strategy, as it is now developing, is independent of what is happening here. Perhaps it is because of a sense of lack of conventional strength that we want to use these tactical nuclear weapons. So you should think more of conventional disarmament or something, but the relationship doesn't make sense. Nevertheless, I think it is important to commit myself to this. We also agree on this objective. There was just talk about the Omtzigt motion. I believe that these tactical nuclear weapons should be removed from Europe. The question is, how do you do that? People say, "If you don't do that yourself tomorrow, you won't be credible." I would like to say that I think it is important, as you do, to take every opportunity to bring that forward. I myself think that this modernisation does not matter very much, for the reason I have just mentioned, but that does not alter the fact that the Dutch Government is committed to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u9	The interruptions must be short, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u10	I can imagine the frustration of Minister Koenders. Old prime ministers just talk about silly things in public and he has to insist here that he doesn't know for sure what's going on. Nevertheless, the Minister and I, and I believe a large part of this Chamber, have the same objective. We must try to remove these weapons from the European continent. But I do not understand that he then says that modernisation has nothing to do with this. I'd say it's the right thing to do. That moment is perceived by the Russians as the moment when Europeans and Americans scale up. It is also a moment when these weapons are temporarily removed from the territory. So if there's a logical time to make the gesture and sit down with the Russians and see if they can't make a gesture for that gesture too, then that's the time. We have a year and a half before that. Who says that Russia's attitude is now the same as that of a year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u11	I just don't understand the connection, with all due respect. The first is modernisation. Firstly, I said that I am not talking about this, and secondly, that these modernisations have to do with security and the extension of the life cycle. So that's really different from a new generation. Secondly, it is not the Russians' problem at all. It does not in any way have a relationship with their desire to achieve arms control. I share Mr Sjoerdsma's objective of trying. I'm not ruling out that we can include this. I don't think that's a problem at all, and I'm willing to do it. I'm just saying, I certainly wouldn't let it end there alone. Because whether the weapons leave the Netherlands or not, you're almost in the old discussion of the eighties: if you don't place so much, then I don't either. Then you'll end up in the Cold War spirit and then you'll have to accept modernisation when it doesn't work out. So let me make no mistake about it. Mr Sjoerdsma does not need to be afraid that we will not use all the measures, innovations and, as far as I am concerned, modernisations, whatever they may be, to try to negotiate with a country which finds it very difficult at the moment. I'm even saying here that I don't think that's the only reason...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you. Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u13	...to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u14	I also have a question that invites the Minister to look into the connection. I've tried it in interruptions before. The Netherlands is one of the nine countries in the world that have the whole nuclear cycle and know about it. Is this not one of the reasons why the Netherlands can from time to time play a role in disarmament or in the control of nuclear power stations in the Middle East? Isn't the fact that we don't want to lose that role, even if it's a reason why we find it very difficult to say: let's start to make the Netherlands nuclear-free too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u15	The answer 'in the end' is no, but Mrs Van Tongeren is right that the Netherlands, for example, has been able to play an important role in the field of chemical weapons. That was the case with the programme in Syria. That was, by the way, a United Nations programme, in which the Dutchman Mrs Kaag played a major role. I could say the following: that is no reason to keep nuclear weapons here or not. URENCO does not produce highly enriched uranium and certainly not weapons-grade uranium. I firmly believe that nuclear knowledge remains present in the Netherlands. However, that is an independent discussion. That knowledge can indeed be used for verification of disarmament or for the details of the nuclear fuel treaty. I think that is very important, because that is one of the key lines through which we are now taking action. Of course, it is also important for non-proliferation. It therefore leads to the maintenance of knowledge, but Mrs Van Tongeren can rest assured that this is not the reason to keep Borssele, Petten or anything else open.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u16	I think that is a curious reasoning. URENCO can make weapons-grade uranium. That's why that technique went to Pakistan. The reasoning is thus essentially as follows. We are against hard drugs, but we want to preserve the knowledge and the entire production process. We also want to be able to continue to produce the raw materials for it. Should I go after the Minister's friendly blue eyes and assume that this is not the reason to keep Petten, Delft or Borssele open and keep URENCO up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u17	You don't have to take my blue eyes because I'm just speaking as a minister. I am responsible for this and you can address me on this. This is why we do not do that. The fact that we now have knowledge that helps to verify disarmament is something I think is only positive. We can play a role in the disarmament initiatives that you consider so important. However, this is not an independent reason for maintaining a nuclear cycle. So it doesn't have that much to do with my blue eyes. These are just the facts. I can check on that, just like the Minister of EZ. I can't add much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u18	Would the government be prepared to reconsider having the entire nuclear cycle in Dutch hands? Does she want to see what the advantages and disadvantages are for the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u19	That's really not in my responsibility. I have no judgment on this at the moment either, but I do not think it is. It is an independent decision on the whole energy mix and the way we look at URENCO. In itself, that is a complicated debate. I think you can separate that from what we're talking about here. There is a connection, but it can be separated in terms of policy. So I say that the fact that we have that has nothing to do with the fact that we secretly want to maintain nuclear capacity for weapons. After all, we signed the NPT. It's about one task now. I cannot give any further facts on this matter. However, it is a lot less than a few years ago. In the Netherlands, too, we actually disarmed nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u20	Let me return to the Minister's last words in response to Mr Sjoerdsma. He said that the modernisation debate with the Americans is a matter for the Americans themselves, because they are their weapons. However, the Minister was prepared to discuss this with the Americans. So what's the Minister's commitment gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u21	I said this doesn't seem like the most logical order. I don't rule anything out, but it's not the big deal. What we want to achieve is disarmament. At a time when that is very difficult, we want more arms control and arms control. We want the Americans and the Russians not to fall back into an old Cold War dynamic, but to have verification to disprove it. I said that the modernisation element does not seem logical to me, because of the reasons and reasons why the Russian Federation, at least publicly, says that it thinks in a different way about nuclear weapons. I don't think we should mirror that. That's where my priority is now. Let's make sure it doesn't get any worse. I want to make sure it doesn't get any worse. I consider the modernisation debate to be relatively secondary to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u22	I understand. My free translation of what the Russians say is: we maintain our tactical nuclear weapons, no matter what you do. The Minister estimates that it will have little effect if the Netherlands tells the Americans to stop this modernisation. However, we also have our own responsibility. That is what other countries in Europe are doing. Canada, Iceland and the English have also told the Americans that they no longer need their nuclear weapons because they have their own nuclear weapons. What does the Minister think of the considerations of these other countries? A base in Germany has also allowed the Americans to withdraw their nuclear weapons. Given that there are no major consequences for these countries, could the Netherlands not fit into this list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u23	Firstly, I do not think what Mr Voordewind says about some of those other countries is correct. We're gonna have to stick to the facts for a while. In fact, all countries are opposed to the use of a legal instrument, which this initiative is actually about. That's important. Secondly, the question was asked about national space. That is not something that I let other countries decide; we think so ourselves. I understand from the initiative that PAX is not seeking a peacetime ban. Therefore, referring to countries that only have a ban in peacetime is comparing apples with pears. I refer to countries such as Denmark and Iceland. Norway is only prohibited from mooring ships. These countries are all part of an alliance that has indicated that they do have nuclear weapons in exceptional circumstances. All these countries are in exactly the same position. The Nordics knew very limited national provisions even before the concept of nuclear sharing was introduced. In that sense, the equation is also flawed. The United Kingdom is a nuclear power station and thus retained a nuclear weapons mission within NATO after it eliminated its tactical weapons. It is a very different country, which itself has quite a lot of nuclear weapons. Spain is only prohibited in peacetime, with very specific restrictions. We now have a nuclear weapon task in NATO. This did not apply to the countries mentioned by PAX. I have said what I think of the termination of this task: I believe that this should be done in the long term. My predecessors and I have also responded to motions from the Chamber before. That reaction isn't gonna change this afternoon. So it is not the case that these other countries are different in this discussion. As far as the NATO strategy is concerned, these countries are, frankly, if I may say so, a little more conservative than we are, but I do not think that I should go too far in this respect. That's the essence of what's going on...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u24	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u25	Did the minister want to finish his sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u26	I wanted to go on about transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u27	Okay. Then I have another follow-up question. My question was not so much about the citizens' initiative, but more about how other countries see it now. They see it not as a total legal ban, but more as the phasing out of the existing nuclear weapons task. In Germany and Greece, for example, there is now a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u28	That is not the case. I have just indicated that in those countries the discussion does not take place in this way. That may be because it is a different situation or because it is a time of peace. In any case, I do not know of any country that would suddenly be more radical than the Netherlands. On the contrary, we are saying here today that we actually want to get rid of tactical nuclear weapons, but that we want to do so in the long term and under certain conditions. That's a statement we're getting ahead of rather than falling behind. Hence the articles in the newspaper which state that Minister Koenders is alone. That is a bit exaggerated, but you can count on the Netherlands, in all these areas, i.e. nuclear doctrines, arms control, the Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty and the NPT, to try to take further steps in the area of disarmament. I find it essential to hand it over to you. You don't have to believe me on my blue eyes, but that's really the situation. In the area of transparency, as I would like to point out this afternoon, I have a frustration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u29	Before you go any further, I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u30	I want to answer everyone. Can I have it in ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u31	Sure. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u32	There I was... No, I can't say that. Certainly, Madam President, I'm going a step faster. The cabinet is very active in implementing the Knops motion on transparency regarding the possible presence or absence of US nuclear weapons. I have discussed this motion, officially and with the Secretary-General of NATO, and at a high level in the United States, in recent months if I count it well thirteen times. The first reactions of the Americans were, frankly, not encouraging. Although they support the importance of transparency, they do not think it is the right time to discuss this within NATO. An adequate response to the growing Russian nuclear rhetoric and to see if NATO's strategy is still adequate are now more important for the United States and indeed all our NATO counterparts. However, I do not give up, because I do not agree with that. I think we can use this more strongly. It is important that the issues of the Russian threat on the one hand and transparency on the other are not confused. I also think this compares apples to pears. The aim of transparency is not, as it is called in jargon, "nuclear messaging" towards the Russian Federation. It is precisely because of the situation that I believe that we should give priority to this. Given the nature of the subject, I cannot go into the process or the expected results. In this case, I must be taken a little by my blue eyes, in the sense that I will continue to go after them very much and even before the debate this week, because I knew that they would bring it up. I agree with the Chamber. However, when you make an appointment in NATO, there is always the following problem. And remember that we think NATO is important, perhaps more important than ever in view of the unstable edge around Europe. See also President Obama's visit last week. Precisely where we used to fear the force majeure of the United States and feared that they would drag us into something, the discussion is now almost the opposite. That is actually the political picture of the greatest possible majority of our allies. The wish of the Chamber is therefore as important to me as it is to me, but I cannot give a response to it now, which means that the same agreement can be made as for Germany. However, I will continue to do so. I also discussed this with the German Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u33	A question/suggestion. It is very good that the Minister is so committed to this. However, I do not think that the people who live in Volkel's neighbourhood are very convinced by the arguments that the Minister gets back in Washington. Of course, there is a link to the modernisation debate. At the moment when nuclear weapons are going to be in and out, I believe that people have the right to know that something like this is happening in their environment. I wonder if the Minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u34	This refers to the discussion I had earlier with Mr Sjoerdsma, who had to do with the debate on arms control, modernisation and transparency. I agree that they are in themselves coherent, but I do not think that this will suddenly make the big difference. Perhaps that is already the case. So the problem will not be there. I do think it is important that this debate can be held more widely in the national parliaments and perhaps also in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, so that it can be brought even more to the attention of the various parliaments. I do not disagree with the Chamber, I do think this is going a little too slowly. I myself have a problem with not being able to say that here, but we are sticking to a previous agreement. I'm not avoiding that either. Its urgency is well felt here and we could try the most sensible strategy, but I do not think that this is about modernisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u35	We must, however, look for a moment when we can secure it. We are all convinced of its importance. The Americans say it's not a good time for them right now. If we can use one moment to focus it, that is the moment when a transport is possible. Without wanting to record it immediately in motions or anything like that, I would like to say that it is important that we know about it before there are literally nuclear weapons flying through our airspace, just because people have a right to know it. I would really like to take this as an element, not because of our responsibility for modernisation or because of the financing of modernisation, but because people have the right to know that this is happening in their airspace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u36	Let me say that I am now asking you to realise that the government rules there, so to speak, and that we can now best assess the diplomatic means to do so. I say to you and to Mr Sjoerdsma that I have not ruled out any means or connections and I have listened carefully to what you have said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u37	We see Russia modernising its nuclear arsenal. We see Russia's commitment to the development of new tactical nuclear weapons such as Iskander missiles. At the same time, this minister in NATO is advocating disarmament. Does he see the imbalance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u38	No, I don't. I am looking at developments in the Russian Federation with some concern. By the way, there's a lot of propaganda in there. At the same time, we have the impression that the strategy is changing towards a greater role for tactical nuclear weapons. This means that NATO is alert to this, especially when it comes to its security strategy. We certainly will be when we go to Warsaw. You don't have to worry about that. That just doesn't mean right away that you have to mirror in the sense that the only method of doing something is exactly the same as the other one's. There are also security political risks. I don't have any naivety about that. This afternoon I also said why I take the geopolitical situation seriously. As a result, I see the setting in which we are conducting these negotiations. There's not a shred of naivety in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u39	Of course, the point remains that, when we see that the Russians are therefore committed to modernisation, tactical development and technical development, including the nuclear arsenal, this Minister continues to argue in NATO for disarmament. I did not say here that there should be direct reflection, although I think that would be very sensible, but can the Minister at least abandon the objective of disarming?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u40	No, I can't. Like all other countries, the Netherlands has a treaty obligation to achieve disarmament. I did not say that it should be totally one-sided. I have just said that we are taking a number of initiatives which are once again creating the possibility of involving the Russians. The debate was also about how we can ensure this without falling into a cold-war dynamic. I have therefore also told you that I take some elements of the Russian Federation's strategy very seriously. For example, NATO is currently working with the help of the Netherlands to strengthen this deterrent, including conventional deterrents, in other ways. I'm just gonna call it the high-readiness task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u41	I would like to build on Mr Servaes' questions. Openness enables people to consider whether or not they are going to live somewhere, for example. As soon as nuclear weapons are moved, a new situation will arise. You will then be faced with possible risks associated with its transport. In this context, it is interesting to know that a few years ago there was a discussion in the region about a contingency plan. It turned out there wasn't. There turned out to be no contingency plan in case of an accident there. This issue becomes even more topical as soon as nuclear weapons are relocated. I would like to ask the Minister, apart from the Dutch context, to press for action as soon as there is a transfer of NATO nuclear weapons. Safety measures must then be taken, which also inform local drivers. Is the Minister prepared to admit that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u42	What you are describing is not in itself a new situation, regardless of whether it occurs in the Netherlands or not. It really has nothing to do with modernisation. The fact is that there are tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. We want to know more about that. I would also like to inform you more about this. That's the agenda. This has nothing to do with movements, contingency plans or anything like that. Firstly, I cannot at all confirm that this is happening in the Netherlands. Secondly, the number of journeys will not change suddenly as a result of modernisation. That's bringing in apples and pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u43	From publications I think I can see that modernisation means that nuclear weapons go back to the United States. So that means displacement. Now there is no law on the transit of weapons, but in the nuclear case I would like to mention that. It does affect safety. The transport of dangerous substances by road is all regulated, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u44	I do not think we really disagree, but there is now something that I do not think is relevant. Of course, it's about giving more transparency. We have the same objective. Mr Van Bommel wants to take advantage of the issue of modernisation to raise it, but I do not need it at all. It's exactly what I'm doing anyway. This point does not give any additional bargaining power. As far as tactical weapons are concerned, it is publicly known that they are air weapons. That transport really doesn't matter at all. We simply need to get on with this together. I'll do my best to do that. As I said earlier, I do not exclude any element, but I do want to be effective and not be pinned on one element in the sense that it would suddenly give us a tremendous negotiating power. That is simply not the case. I acknowledge that I wish to proceed with the motion. I'll do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u45	I would also like to build on the questions raised by Mr Van Bommel and Mr Servaes on this point. The Minister cannot accept that they are here, so that makes it more difficult, but perhaps the Minister can tell the Chamber what risks are involved in transporting tactical nuclear weapons. What measures should a Member State take to minimise these risks? Then the Chamber knows what it can count on and then the people in Volkel have a bit of an idea of how things stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u46	I can't go into that. Mr Sjoerdsma spoke of "the people in Volkel." I just said what I have to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u47	That's disappointing. I think it was a question for the Minister to answer. I'm gonna make it wider. If this is not possible, I would like to return to the question I raised in the first term: can the Chamber have access to the treaties underlying the presence and maintenance of nuclear weapons in the Netherlands? I am thinking of the Atomic Stockpile Agreement, the Service-to-Service Tactical Arrangement and the bilateral Military Implementation Agreement. In my view, it is the duty of the Minister to submit these treaties to the Chamber on request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'd like to get back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr Voordewind, I see you're trying to interrupt, but you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u50	Not in this block, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go hang on the other side. I recognise the security aspects raised by colleagues, but we have read in the Minister's letter that the nuclear weapons mission of the Netherlands is carried out by one squadron of F-16s stationed at Volkel Air Base. I've never seen it so explicitly in a letter before. We can keep talking with flour in our mouths here, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u51	You also asked this question in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u52	But the question hasn't been answered. I warn the Minister about too explicit matters, which other colleagues are calling for. It is, of course, good to acknowledge that we have a nuclear weapon mission, but of course we also have an air base in Leeuwarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u53	Which is also mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u54	I have exploited maximum transparency in the letter received by the Chamber. This also indicates that this minister is for transparency. I say again that I am willing to do anything about it. Given that a very large number of countries are opposed and that we are members of the NATO alliance, I cannot break iron with my hands, but the Chamber can assume that I am working on this step by step. I know that I am very much supported by the Chamber. I'll continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u55	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u56	I believe that I have come to the end of my reply. I shall return to Mr Sjoerdsma's question in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you. You've stuck to the time perfectly. We shall now proceed to the second time limit, for which speaking time is one third of the first time, i.e. one minute twenty, including the tabling of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot today about Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. Article 6 is mandatory. However, very little has been achieved in this area. It is therefore not reassuring that the Minister always refers to this article, because if we keep up the pace of recent years, we will need centuries to get rid of the rest of nuclear weapons. I believe that there is a real reason for a national ban. The Minister says there is no added value to a national ban. I think it would have added value if the Netherlands were to become an example. Iceland and Lithuania have done the same. The Netherlands could follow that example. The Minister says this is about peacetime, but I think that is a step too. They are all steps in the right direction. One step in the wrong direction is to modernise nuclear weapons. The Minister refers to the Russian Federation, investing in tactical nuclear weapons, which is less likely to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u59	And now the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u60	This situation will also arise in NATO. That's why I have the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has previously supported the bans on chemical weapons, biological weapons, landmines and cluster munitions;]] [[noting that the use of nuclear weapons cannot distinguish between civilians and military and that the effects of these weapons cannot be limited in time or distance;]] [[noting that several countries already have nuclear weapons bans;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up national legislation for a comprehensive ban on the use and threat of use, possession, testing, acquisition, development, production, financing, deployment and transfer of nuclear weapons under all circumstances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u61	The final motion can be made very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that all nuclear weapons powers are currently modernising their nuclear arsenals, investing around USD 1 trillion over the next decade and thereby drastically extending the lifespan of nuclear arsenals;]] [[considers that the modernisation of nuclear weapons is contrary to the spirit of the NPT, which obliges Member States to negotiate overall nuclear disarmament;]] [[Considering that all US tactical nuclear weapons stationed in Europe for the purpose of this modernisation operation will be temporarily returned to the US;]] [[calls on the government to use this modernisation to inform the US that there is no longer a need for the presence of US nuclear weapons in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr. Chairman. I'm starting to read fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all nuclear weapons powers are currently modernising their nuclear arsenals in order to drastically extend the lifespan of nuclear arsenals;]] [[Considering that all US tactical nuclear weapons stationed in Europe for the purpose of this modernisation operation will be temporarily returned to the US;]] [[Whereas this provides an excellent opportunity to inform the Americans that there is no longer a need for nuclear weapons in the EU;]] [[calls on the Government, within the European Union, to promote the removal of all nuclear weapons from the EU territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is one of the few countries in the world to control the entire nuclear cycle from uranium reprocessing to an air force with a nuclear weapon mission;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the desirability of controlling the entire nuclear cycle within the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has committed itself in the Non-Proliferation Treaty to overall and complete nuclear disarmament;]] [[noting that the Government states that the Netherlands is committed to complete nuclear disarmament;]] [[calls on the Government to submit a concrete roadmap with a timeline to the Chamber on how it intends to proceed towards overall and complete nuclear disarmament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-5]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-6]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-344197-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. The Minister first mentioned the Iran deal as the greatest diplomatic success. As far as I'm concerned, that success hasn't been established for the next ten years, "the jury is still out." Iran is talking to North Korea again and it is no secret that North Korean weapons technology has been sold to Iran. Recent analyses indicate another possibility, namely that the money that Iran receives can be used by the deal to continue investing in nuclear weapons. I was talking about it in the debate with Mr Sjoerdsma. These techniques are developed and tested in North Korea: North Korea as an Iranian testing ground with Hezbollah terrorists as potential profiteers. That shows how much more unsafe the world is getting. The threat is wider. In 2007, Israel shut down a nuclear reactor in Syria, which was completely overlooked by the U.S. intelligence services. Imagine if there had been an unprotected nuclear reactor in Syria today or worse, secretly unattended nuclear weapons. Either the regime or a jihadist group would now have nuclear weapons, and neither would turn their hand to use chemical weapons. The Minister has indicated why the NPV is the only engine behind the restriction of nuclear arsenals. Unilateral disarmament is not working. That's where the fission in this house manifests itself as a result of this petition. Armed with a few nuclear lessons, I would like to say that two-sided disarmament is the only thing that works and that deterrence is still necessary. This requires support, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas unilateral disarming entails serious security risks;]] [[Considering that the possibility of deterrent is important in the current global security situation and that nuclear weapons play a major role in this;]] [[Whereas the modernisation of existing nuclear weapons is necessary to ensure their security;]] [[noting that a majority of the Chamber wished to see a reduction and eventual removal of tactical nuclear weapons from all over Europe;]] [[noting that dual disarming is the only realistic option;]] [[calls on the Government not to hinder the modernisation of existing tactical nuclear weapons in Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to further strengthen the role of the Netherlands, whether or not as a future member of the UN Security Council, as a driver of international negotiations and developments in the field of disarmament on the world stage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u64	It's going to be a double decision!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. I think that the aftertaste of this debate is that everyone here wants to go to a global zero, but we quite, see the motions, disagree on the way in which. I wholeheartedly support Mr Servaes' motion to give another big swing to the Open-ended Working Group on Nuclear Disarmament. That is the subject of this debate. I've prepared two motions myself. For the sake of time, I'll read it to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a nuclear weapons mission in NATO and that the implementation of this nuclear arms task is subject to one squadron of F-16s;]] [[noting that the treaties which form the basis for the material implementation of the placement and maintenance of these nuclear weapons are not known in the Chamber;]] [[calls on the government to give the Chamber access to the bilateral treaties between the US and the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a global zero for nuclear weapons is a goal of Dutch foreign policy;]] [[Whereas there is currently a debate on the modernisation of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe;]] [[Considering that the motion-Omtzigt c.s. (33400-V, No. 65) establishes a direct link between this undesirable modernisation and the removal of the tactical nuclear weapons present in Europe as a hard objective of government policy;]] [[whereas the debate on nuclear disarmament is currently at an impasse;]] [[Whereas the removal of nuclear weapons from the Netherlands and Europe can be used to make Russia the same gesture;]] [[calls on the Government to use the moment of the undesirable modernisation of nuclear weapons in Europe to boost global nuclear disarmament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Bommel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Servaes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We would like to send him another message in a motion to at least consider whether the international ban on nuclear weapons, as provided for in Article VI of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, can be given an impetus in the coming period. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article VI of the Non-Proliferation Treaty provides that the Contracting Parties shall initiate negotiations on a full nuclear disarmament treaty;]] [[noting that the Chamber in the Sjoerdsma c.s. motion (33783, No. 19) calls on the Government to participate in international discussions on a nuclear weapons ban;]] [[Notes that in 2015 an open-ended working group was set up by the United Nations General Assembly which is considering new measures, legal or otherwise, in the field of nuclear disarmament;]] [[Calls on the Government to actively promote effective measures within the open-ended working group, including the launch of negotiations on an international nuclear weapons ban, in order to create a nuclear-free world;]] [[calls on the Government to include other member states of the NATO alliance in these negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Servaes, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Bommel, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering our questions and for the insight he has given in his involvement in the global talks on disarmament and nuclear weapons. I have signed Mr Servaes' motion to see if there is room for improvement with the Open-ended Working Group. I have another question for the Minister about the countries in the same position as the Netherlands, such as Greece, the United Kingdom and Canada, which also had American nuclear weapons and had them withdrawn by the Americans. These are not the least of the countries that have gone before us. What would be the legal or moral impediment to not following that path? I have two very short but relevant motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a nuclear weapons mission within NATO;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with America, to work on the phasing-out of the Dutch nuclear weapons task,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a nuclear weapons mission within NATO;]] [[calls on the Government, within NATO, to seek support for alternative security guarantees to replace the NATO nuclear weapons mission in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the one question I have asked. It was not insignificant, because it was about transparency. I'll take a look at the minister. He does have blue eyes, so I trust that when the Minister says he's working on that. I also understand that it is complicated to communicate transparently with us on this issue. I encourage the Minister to continue on that road, with broad support from the Chamber. For the sake of completeness, as far as we are concerned, transparency does not mean communicating about data from transports and so on. That was not the intention of my motion. It was really about the strategic level: how many weapons are there and where are they? For the rest, we must focus on safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the govern ment for answering the questions. For the sake of time, I'll be brief. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the US nuclear weapons in Europe are a counterweight to the Russian threat and should be maintained;]] [[Considering that the NATO cabinet is committed to the removal of all US tactical nuclear weapons from Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to abandon this objective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u70	I have one final, short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that the F-35 may have a nuclear task,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr. Chairman. When the minister was a member of parliament, he had a lot of free space and fought against nuclear weapons. I notice that he does not have that space now and that the Chamber with a motion must enforce that space in the cabinet. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, under no circumstances, to agree to the possible modernisation, extension and/or extension of nuclear weapons on Dutch territory;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with NATO partners and the United States with a view to ending the nuclear arms mission of the Netherlands and ending the possible deployment of nuclear weapons in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34419-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u72	It occurs with some regularity that directors are reminded of statements they have made as MPs. Mr Öztürk has already managed to mention the Rules of Procedure a few times today. Can I say here that, unlike in Turkey, directors are simply speaking on behalf of the government and not on behalf of a majority party in parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u73	This is an embarrassing display by Mr Han ten Broeke. He is a MP of the largest party, he is foreign spokesperson and he is still trying to frame a Dutch party, an elected, born and raised party in the Netherlands, to another country. That's embarrassing behavior, way below his level and way below the level the VVD should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u74	I am glad that my level is generally high. The knowledge he attributed to me was complete in one place. I would like him to be able to add the knowledge of the Dutch Constitution, on which he swore an oath. Then he would learn that there is a difference between the government and a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u75	DENK is a party that is going to teach the VVD how to deal with new parties properly, contrary to what Mr Ten Broeke is about to say on TV everywhere. I mentioned something here, and I will say it again. At the moment when a minister takes a different position than he had as a Member of Parliament, I will mention it every time, even though Mr Ten Broeke comes to the interrupting microphone 30 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u76	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u77	Madam President. I thank the Chamber for the second-term questions and motions. I would like to make the following introductory remark. In any case, this citizens' initiative has led to a major debate in the House of Representatives, an update of the debate here and a degree of consensus on the importance of disarmament and an end to what could be called the "shame of nuclear weapons" and the enormous risks posed by nuclear weapons. That is important because, although this consensus may not exist in all the details and some groups may think otherwise, it gives us in the Netherlands the support to operate very actively internationally, both bilaterally and in NATO and the United Nations. That supports my own feeling that this urgency has not diminished because of the current geopolitical situation. In this context, the Chamber has tabled a large number of motions, which cannot count on the consensus of the various groups either. That's the way it should be in politics. I would like to give my opinion on that. The Van Bommel motion in part No. 3 deals with national legislation for a comprehensive ban on use and threats to use and so on. I would advise against this in view of the debate that has taken place on the moment, the way in which we operate internationally. This also applies to the Van Bommel motion on item No. 4 because of the earlier debate and the relevant arguments. The Van Tongeren/Grashoff motion in part No. I would also advise against this, because I do not believe that we should tell the Americans that there is no longer a need for nuclear weapons in the EU's territory. That is not the policy of the Dutch Government. Nor does the European Union have any competence in this area. The Van Tongeren motion in part No. There are two reasons why I would not recommend 6. Firstly, the observation is incorrect. The Netherlands does not control the entire nuclear cycle. See reprocessing, mining and the entire fuel cycle. We can enrich business and control the medical elements of it. In addition, the IAEA stops monitoring this. Nor do I need rethinking in the context of this debate. On the contrary, there is no need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u78	We do have knowledge of the whole nuclear cycle. We can make medical isotopes and, in theory, also build uranium into weapons-grade. That is why we are one of the few high-level countries to participate in these controls. This is just a request to reconsider and reflect on the advantages and disadvantages. The Minister rightly points out that these are two portfolios. I and M are always told that this is part of the Defense Department and then I get it back from the Defense Department: you actually have to go to the Minister for Economic Affairs or the Minister for Security. That is why I would like to hear it from the three leaders together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u79	I am speaking on behalf of the Dutch Government. Firstly, I would point out that the observation is incorrect. It is true that we have technological knowledge, but we do not control the whole nuclear cycle. Secondly, the government does not need a reconsideration of the desirability of controlling the entire nuclear cycle. So I have to discourage that motion, unfortunately for Mrs Van Tongeren. This also applies to the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 7. It seems superfluous to me, because I keep the Chamber regularly informed about all these steps. There are regular letters that state exactly what we do. So I would have the motion in part no. 7 also want to dissuade. Then I come to the Ten Broeke motion in part No. 8. "Whether or not to be a future member of the UN Security Council," I find a sympathetic reference to a possible future. I would like to leave this motion to the House. The vote will take place at the next voting time. I would like to leave 9 by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Bommel to the Chamber. I note, however, that I must abide by Article 13.3 of the Reichswet. This has to do with a number of treaties which can and cannot be understood, but on the basis of Article 13.3 of the Reichswet I can leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u80	I have a question about Article 13.3 of the National Law versus Article 68 of the Constitution. What exactly does the Minister say when he refers to Article 13.3?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u81	Exactly what I'm saying. Under the Rijkswet approval and publication treaties, agreements of a secret or confidential nature are notified to the States-General subject to confidentiality, unless the interest of the Kingdom objects. So that depends on the treaties. I am bound by that law, and within the framework of that law, I will make the Chamber recognize those treaties. I should also like to leave Mr Sjoerdsma's and Mr Servaes' judgement on the motion for a resolution on item 10 to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 11 is about an international ban on nuclear weapons. As the Chamber knows, the NPT calls for negotiations. That's in the recital. The NPT calls for "negotiation in good faith on effective measures before the end of the nuclear arms race, nuclear disarmament and a treaty on general and complete disarmament." The Netherlands is committed to the OEWG to identify these measures. I therefore support this motion, on the understanding that the Dutch Government will carry out this motion in the context of the chronological disarmament steps provided for in Article 6 of the NPT. In that sense, I support the motion and leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr Sjoerdsma, you are not the first signatory. But your name is under the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u83	My name is underneath and I have an enlightening question. I understand that this working group will start on Monday. We are not going to vote on this motion now. The motion does not yet have a majority. The Minister treats this motion as if it had a majority. Is he taking over the motion? Or does the Minister say: judge Chamber, but do you know that I will be working on this motion on Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u84	It's the last one. In the motion in part No. 12 The government is invited to "work in consultation with America to phase out the Dutch nuclear weapons task." If I see correctly, that is de facto in line with the Sjoerdsma motion of 18 March 2014. The Chamber knows what the Dutch Government's view is on this matter. In the long term, the government aims to make the nuclear task of NATO as a whole superfluous. In that sense, therefore, I do not regard this motion as a new motion, but as one on which I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 13 The government is invited to "seek support within NATO to seek alternative security guarantees to replace the NATO nuclear weapons mission." I would like to discourage this motion, because I find it really too unclear. We haven't got that far yet. Nor do I know exactly what is meant by 'alternative safety guarantees' on this particular point. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u85	To clarify: if we want to get rid of the European nuclear weapon task, which is in line with NATO's objective, we will need to organise an alternative conventional security strategy for Europe. The motion calls for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u86	Then I'll dissuade the motion, because I don't think these are communicating vessels. I thought Mr Voordewind was talking about very different security guarantees. It is often the case that a country, for example Ukraine, will at some point abandon nuclear weapons and that there will be certain guarantees from the nuclear states. I just think this is a little too much for the music. I understand Mr Voordewind's point, but I do not recommend the motion at the moment. Let us first take the other steps, with the approval of Mr Voordewind. Then the motion to part No. 14 on the observation that the NATO cabinet is committed to the removal of all American tactical nuclear weapons from Europe. We're not gonna bet on that, and so I'm gonna advise against this motion. I would point out that the motion in part No. 15 on the nuclear task of the F-35 is at odds with the Van Dijk motion and the reaction of the cabinet to it. I therefore also advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 16 The Government is under no circumstances invited to agree to the possible modernisation, extension and/or extension of nuclear weapons on Dutch territory. I have just said who is responsible for this and what is the nature of it. That goes against this motion, so I would also advise against it. Mr Voordewind asked a question about the position of other countries. Canada, for example, does not support an international ban on nuclear weapons. Contrary to what is said, Canada does indeed support the United States logistics with nuclear weapons. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u87	With apologies, because I don't think I could keep up with my own administration so fast. The Minister's pace is killing me. I have a question on the motion that I have tabled with a few colleagues. From that motion, I can get the number...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u88	Item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you. I was not entirely clear whether she was Chamber of Justice or whether she was already regarded as being taken over in the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u90	I said judge Room. Then there was an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma. He said: on Monday you will start these negotiations, does this mean that you will not actively engage in effective measures in the Open-ended Working Group? I said, "I'm gonna do that." I also gave my own opinion on this motion, namely on chronology in relation to the Non-Proliferation Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u91	I understand that we are still voting on it? I cannot therefore now ask for a report on that meeting. I'd really appreciate it if we got one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u92	I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u93	I don't think there's any need for a motion for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-7.u94	I would like to thank the authors of the citizens' initiative, as well as the people who have followed this debate in the public gallery or in any other way. We shall vote on the motions tabled after the recess.
