ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u1	We now have three VOCs and this evening the debate on the outcome of the European summit. I therefore hope that we, the Members and the Minister, of course, will be able to complete these VOCs at a good pace, without, of course, compromising the quality of the debate. I would like to welcome the Minister and the spokesmen. I call Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u2	Mr. Chairman. We had a good meeting on the ports. There may still be a number of motions which we can certainly support. In general consultation is short, but intrusive, talk about the opening of Voorne-Putten. The Botlek Bridge is still regularly closed and broken. The Minister referred to a number of regular consultations. Our point in the consultation was correct, that the regular consultations did not actually lead to a plan on when the problem was solved and how the accessibility of Voorne-Putten can be guaranteed; not so much to catch an aircraft at Schiphol Airport, but also to reach the hospital in Rotterdam. In order to encourage the Minister to do so, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still major problems with the Botlek Bridge, which means that residents of Voorne-Putten are isolated, while the Thames Road Tracing and the construction of the Blankenburg Tunnel still have to start;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, in consultation with the region, a plan providing for the guaranteed opening up of Voorne-Putten,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29862-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u3	Mr. Chairman. Following on from the question of the accessibility of Voorne-Putten, the accessibility of the port of Rotterdam lies. We note that there are indeed disturbances at the Botlek Bridge and the Spijkenisse Bridge. They're still unsolved. There will be a accessibility study to Voorne-Putten. Is it an idea to include that accessibility study in the MIT study Rotterdam? I don't have a motion, but I do have a question for the Minister. Last week we had the AO. Last Friday, the report came out from the Rli, the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure. That council presented a new vision of the mainport policy. The VVD is rather shocked, because there is quite a lot of criticism of this mainport policy, while I believe that there has been a very good policy in recent years. There are quite a few headquarters of large companies in the port of Rotterdam. They are there because the port of Rotterdam occupies the position it has. There's a big harbor. We wouldn't even have the Zuidas if we didn't have Schiphol. Tesla also goes to Eindhoven. This has to do with the port of Rotterdam. I would therefore like a response from the Minister. Last Friday, the highest official actually responded. I was kind of happy with this reaction. I would like the Minister's reaction to this that we are not going to implement this opinion. Let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u4	Mr. Chairman. There is no additional motion from D66 in this VAO. We are still very content with the motion that we adopted by a majority in this Chamber to start the discussion on the public and private of the mainport. I would like to talk briefly here about the following. The United Kingdom is in the top 5 of the main markets for the Rotterdam port. Therefore, D66 in general asked about the impact of the Brexit on the mainport Rotterdam and the more than 180,000 jobs that the mainport provides. My colleague from the PvdA, Mr Monasch, also asked for this. Specifically, D66 asked about which scenarios the cabinet has on the shelf. The answer to that was not a worst case scenario, not even a worst case scenario. D66 finds this worrying, especially since there are signs that the Brexit may have adverse effects on the mainport Rotterdam in the short or longer term. The Minister indicated that she needed further consultation with her official staff on the consequences of the Brexit. I will not table a motion on this point, but I would like to ask the Minister whether she will shortly send a letter to the Chamber containing the results of this consultation on the consequences of the Brexit and the scenarios it takes into account. D66 represents the importance of our mainports for the Dutch economy. We must, where appropriate, cherish and protect this interest as a government. D66 expects a finger on the wrist from this cabinet. Let us not make the mistake here in the Netherlands of thinking that things are going well. We can't afford that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u5	Mr. Chairman. The AO was about the ports, as the title indicates, but it was also very much about the unfair competition that is taking place in relation to our seaports. This concerns in particular the port of Rotterdam, but also other seaports. The Minister has indicated what is going to happen in the European pathway. Let me quote: port regulation, then a border exemption regulation and then a guideline on state aid to seaports. That is a good approach in itself, but it is still years before it is all completed. In those years, a port such as Rotterdam will constantly face unfair competition. We have examples from Hamburg, where the losses are supplemented by the city of Hamburg. We know what is happening in Antwerp, where costs are borne by the government where this is not the case in the Netherlands. The question is very specific: what is the government going to do in the coming years, as long as the European guideline is not yet in place, to counter this unfair competition or as much as possible? We have the example of corporate tax. That's what the Minister's gonna come back to. But it also plays on numerous other files. So the question is very specific. What is the Minister going to do about this in the near future, so long as the European guideline has not yet been put in place, to combat unfair competition as much as possible? I don't have a motion, but since I have a few seconds left, I'd like to say the following. I promised the Minister last week that wherever she would find a PvdA man there would be talk about the lock in the Afsluitdijk. That is what I wanted to do, until my colleague Hoogland helped me out of the dream by telling me that there is another general discussion this week where he will take over the stick again and where again that lock in the Afsluitdijk, which needs to be widened, will be discussed. There are sayings about Carthage, with which every speech must always be completed. I conclude by expressing the hope that the Minister will be able to find a solution in the near future for the widening of the lock in the Afsluitdijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u6	It's been noted. I see that Mr Graus is refusing to make a contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u7	Mr. Chairman. I order my papers while talking, but I shall begin with Mr Van Helvert's motion on part No. 31 on the opening of Voorne-Putten. It asks me to develop, in consultation with the region, a plan that provides for guaranteed access. I see this motion as a policy support. A plan has been developed by the region, which is included in the ongoing MIRT research Rotterdam-Den Haag. I therefore believe that the motion for a resolution has been put to the vote. Mrs De Boer also asked whether it would be included in the MIRT study of Rotterdam. I do that and I benefit from good accessibility. In that respect, it goes along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u8	The verdict on the motion is to support policy. Is the Minister going as far as she says I'm taking over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u9	I think I can just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u10	I see that none of the Members object.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u11	Mrs De Boer asked about the mainport policy. I still have to read the report of the Environment and Infrastructure Council on the mainports, but I have, of course, seen the summaries and the initial reports on them. In the AO we have not yet been able to talk about it, because it had not yet appeared. The report raises exciting questions about the mainport policy. Those questions have received a lot of attention. I always appreciate the Rli's advice. It is good to continue to look critically at existing policies and relevant developments, but I do not think that the mainport policy is over. I'm not sure that's the main message of the advice either. For example, the summary also states that an area needs to be looked at more broadly. Other economic developments surrounding such a mainport should also be taken into account. Investment must also be made in this area. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that the mainport policy is not over and that mainports remain very important to us, in addition to the broad economic position. I will look closely at the Rli report and send a response to it to the House by 1 October at the latest. Mrs Belhaj asked about the consequences of the Brexit. It is true that we have not made advance scenarios for the possible departure of the English from the European Union. I think we were all hopeful that that would not happen. Of course, the political consequences have been looked at in broad terms. The Prime Minister has outlined all the scenarios, but this has not been done at individual specific level. I raised the question of the impact on the various infrastructure projects in my ministry. This concerns the mainports, but also other aspects that we have to deal with in our ministry. Mrs Belhaj asked for a letter on the results, but this is only about to start. We still don't know how to unbreak it. In the United Kingdom there is total confusion. No one took the lead there for the next step. It is a very serious question whether you need to unpaced in all areas. Where that is not necessary, you should try to come up with alternatives, so that you may no longer be a member of the European Union, but you can still maintain the same type of cooperation structures. You'll have to suffer much less damage. We can only tell what we are going to do when we know what the unbundling variants will become. This does not prevent us from being very alert and thinking about it and looking at it, but I cannot yet send a letter to the Chamber with all possible scenarios, because for that I need to know better what is going to happen. Then I come to the PvdA, who has asked what we are going to do to prevent unfair competition. That is very broad, because in addition to the fact that we are working on the formal routes, it is also important for me to remind the Commissioner of possible cases of unfair competition elsewhere. This week I heard what happened in Hamburg and what contribution the government makes to that German port. I said immediately: we need to talk to the Commissioner about that, so make me a note or a note so that I can do so. It's gonna stay that way all the time. The VPB discussion is coming back. With our port agenda, we are trying to make the starting position of our ports as favourable as possible, whether it is about spatial development, making regulations where it is necessary and deregulating where it is necessary, etc. There are many points in our maritime action plan. I'll make sure the Princess's Day Room gets word about the Vpb.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u12	There is a specific question about the compensation of corporation tax. The point is, of course, that this continues in other areas. Will the cabinet also prepare itself to actually do something about it? Perhaps the Minister could take this into account in her response to the reports on the future of the mainport agendas. Until Europe finally sets a guideline, it remains a problem to maintain Rotterdam's competitive position vis-à-vis other ports, which do receive money from their governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u13	I have already said that we have a maritime action plan, in which we try to make the situation as favourable as possible for our ports. Every time I notice that there is unfair competition on the part of foreign ports, I raise this point. The Netherlands is the country that insists on a guideline. The Netherlands is the country that has produced a report itself to show that it is problematic. The Netherlands is the country that rings the bell every time. We got the port regulation through this period and now move on to the next two routes. I'm not gonna miss a chance. I'm not going to compete unfairly myself, and I'm assuming the Chamber isn't asking me to. It seems important to me that where I can support the rules of the game, I will do just that right, whether it is infrastructure or dredging.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-30.u14	The motion that has been taken over will therefore be included on the voting list, but it will no longer be necessary to vote on it. We will proceed directly to the next VAO.
