ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. We need to get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. It has been a long time since we talked about this, at least that is what it feels like, and I thought: how many minutes would I have? The SP indicated in its first term that it was positive about this bill. We want to support it, but there is one thing we are not so happy about, and that is the binding study opinion. We shall therefore vote against the relevant article. The SP has asked attention to registering the number of unsubscriptions. There is a lack of clarity about that. JOB talks about hundreds of unsubscriptions, but the MBO Council speaks of a few cancellations. It is therefore unclear how many young people are rejected when they are admitted to an institution. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is unclear how many and on what grounds prospective students are rejected for the training of their choice by MBO institutions;]] [[considers that the numbers of rejected prospective students are the subject of discussion between educational organisations, and it is preferable to clarify this;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a simple registration system for MBO institutions in which MBO schools record how many students are refused and establish the reason for refusal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34457-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u3	I have one more question for the Minister. If a student receives negative study advice, it is intended that he or she leaves the programme and whether or not he or she goes to another programme. In the first term, I had an exchange of views with the Minister on whether these students would be notified by the institution to the municipality where they live. The Minister did not deal with this in the first place. In her letter I read that it is reported to the RMC and therefore to the compulsory education officer. I hope that's true, because it's our preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. A student who wants to do an MBO course in graphic design, but is refused because he would be too old. A havo-student who, after failing to complete her HBO training, is refused on the MBO because she is "too intelligent." A student who has completed a level 2 course but does not receive a chance from her school to continue the course at level 3. They are just a few of the examples that the JOB has collected and show how important the right of admission is. We want to give these young people opportunities and not take them away. D66 is therefore in favour of this right of admission, but this bill also introduces a binding study advice for the entire MBO. In the first period, I have already discussed our objections to this point in detail, because no matter how well the process is described in Parliamentary letters and amendments, a binding study opinion is, in practice, intended to minimise risks to institutions. And that's not what D66 is about. Our aim is to offer opportunities to young people. We want to guide students to the place that does the most justice to their talent. That has not been changed by the Minister's explanatory statement. We have too many concerns that guarantees will not stand up in practice. My amendment to remove the binding study opinion from the legislative proposal, I therefore maintain. It'll be in the mood. I had tabled another amendment, namely that to move the date of registration to 1 May, because we consider one date of registration to be much clearer than two throughout tertiary education. But there's more to the login date. Some groups are affected by the early registration date of 1 April, e.g. students switching from programme A to programme B, students moving from e.g. level 2 to level 3, side-intromers, repeaters or doubters. That's not a few, their numbers are up to 60,000 students, 10%. Sometimes they can't register sooner. Then what are the consequences for these students, I ask the Minister. Can the Minister guarantee that there will also be a place for these students in the training they would like to take? Then there are the students who want to follow the vocational guidance learning path, the bbl, a training linked to a job at a learning firm. April 1st is very early for both the student and the employer to record you for a start on August 1st or September 1st. Does the Minister see this problem? Finally, we hope, of course, that the D66 amendment to delete the binding study opinion will be successful, but if this is not the case, then I think it is very important to ensure that we carefully assess the consequences. That is why I shall table the next motion, which I will be happy to withdraw if the amendment does succeed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the right of admission to MBO also introduces a binding study opinion;]] [[noting that an evaluation of this law takes place only after four years;]] [[Whereas it is unclear how the binding study opinion will be developed in practice and whether the safeguards will be adequately implemented by institutions;]] [[Whereas a binding study opinion could have a major impact on the future of young people;]] [[invites the Government, within two years of the entry into force of the Act, to report to the Chamber, in cooperation with the JOB, on the number of negative binding study opinions issued, the number of complaints received, and the way in which MBO institutions deal with admission law, binding study advice and guidance in the first year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34457-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u5	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, the VVD has already indicated its support for the principle of a right of admission in the MBO, because every MBO student deserves an opportunity to prove himself and to develop to the maximum. So: yes admission rights, provided that, as Mr Lucas clearly stated at the time, it is in balance with the duties of the student. That is why the VVD in part No. 18 tabled an amended amendment which provides for students to be granted the right of admission if they have registered on time and if they have also participated in study-choice activities. Please note: non-qualifying persons are not covered, and the institution retains the possibility to hire a student. In addition, in order to maintain the rights and obligations, the VVD believes that it is right to introduce a binding study advice in the MBO. In the first term, the VVD is not convinced by the Minister that training with limited training places should only apply a lottery draw to choose their students. For example, I do not want to take away the ambitious VMBO who wanted to get started in bakery training from a young age, because of a twist of fate. Ambition, as I say in this left-wing Chamber, is not a dirty word. It deserves our appreciation and support. That is why we are maintaining our amendment to item No. 11 in which we arrange that not the bingo cards of the draw but the motivation of the students is placed at the centre. I'm closing up. For the VVD, the binding study opinion is inextricably linked to the right of admission, but the rights and obligations will have to be even more balanced. In this way, I will assess the legislative proposal and I will advise my group whether or not to vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u7	I see Mr Rog of the CDA is trying to interrupt. That means you have to stand still, Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u8	I understand that the VVD is a warm supporter of an absolute right of admission, which arises when this law is passed. Does Mr Duisenberg believe that the majority of students who are currently rejected for training are rejected on inadequate grounds? Or does he think that this is based on a reason that is in the interest of the student himself, for example because he will have no study success on predictable grounds that the professionals who do the intake have knowledge of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u9	Many discussions are taking place on these grounds. One report says this, the other report says that. The VVD believes it is right that everyone has that right of admission in principle, but not just that right. That's what this duty must be about. You may be admitted, but you must be active as a student. This means that you participate in study-choice activities and that you sign up on time. It also means that after a few months or a year a binding study opinion can be delivered: it is not going well, you have to leave now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u10	It is clear to me that the VVD has an amendment aimed at ensuring that the student participates in all these activities. I can tell you that this will also receive the support of the CDA. The intakes, the professionals, the professional teachers have knowledge of things and know which battle student successfully completes the programme or does not, and can or does not succeed in a profession. In fact, we put them aside and know an absolute right for students aged 14 to 16 to decide which education they are going to. Does Mr Duisenberg think that this is proportionate and sensible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u11	We are still looking at the stocktaking of the measures. We're not just giving you that absolute right. Against this right is a number of obligations, including the obligation to follow study-choice activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u12	Does Mr Duisenberg realize that, despite these few duties to participate in all kinds of activities, it is possible that students, students who are clearly unfit because they do not possess certain competences to practice that profession, we are now talking about vocational training and will end up in those training courses and will not be successful at the end of the day? This can have enormous consequences for the student himself: disappointment, frustration and so on. That's gonna happen. Mr Duisenberg's amendment does not change the essence of the right to be admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u13	Hence the importance of the binding study advice, which will apply to all students, as in higher education. There you are also obliged to participate in the study selection activities. From that comes an advice that you may or may not follow. If that doesn't work out successfully for you in the end, a binding study advice will follow. I think that's a good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u14	That binding study opinion was already there. What does the obligation to participate in some of those activities add? I honestly don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u15	If you don't participate, you don't have that right of admission. Of course, there are also students who are completely unmotivated and just go to an education. They will not be granted the right of admission if they have not taken a serious part in those activities. If they did not participate, the institution can say: we do not have to accept you at all. The institution may also say something else, but in principle it does not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. The CDA attaches importance to a good transition between the types of education and shares the Minister's concern about the 2,000 pupils who do not take the step from VMBO to MBO each year. In the first term, I said that the CDA had not yet had a final judgment on the law. I also said that we support parts of the law, such as the early date of registration and the study choice advice. I asked for an Actal investigation into the administrative burden and thank the Minister for her willingness to carry out that investigation. The results of this reassure me as to the administrative burden. However, the CDA continues to question the proportionality, usefulness and necessity of this law. The right of admission should provide a solution for a very small number of unjustly unplaced students, about 100 to 200 per year. By creating a virtually absolute right of admission other than in secondary and higher education, MBO schools will no longer be able to select on the basis of motivation and appropriate pre-training. The CDA would prefer to look at the balance between rights and duties of pupils and students at system level. Why does the Minister for MBO not agree with the duty of care in primary and secondary education, including the dispute settlement or appeal procedure? Isn't it true that a refusal must already be justified in writing? Why does the Minister not adapt the existing flow control system? That too could provide a solution. You don't have to flee into new laws right away. The right of admission can, paradoxically, undermine the choice of study advice. After all, the prospective student has an unconditional right of admission. Motivation, the educational environment at school, pre-training, additional requirements of the business community or the declining field of profession will no longer play a role. Even the question is whether the right of admission could not have the effect of shifting the focus of training from the intake to the moment when they can give a binding study advice. After all, the entire study choice advice is nothing more than a non-binding conversation. From now on, the student determines, at least in the MBO, whether he or she is admitted to the study. A responsibility which, in the event of the student's wrong choice, could have disastrous consequences for his future. This law seems to put aside all the professional attention that all those parties such as D66, GroenLinks and the SP are talking about, from that professional, that teacher. An image is created as if every student who is refused is wronged instead of perhaps being protected from a programme that is predictablely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr Rog's contribution says a great deal about his human image, in particular about the image of the upcoming MBO student. Apparently it is not able to make a well-founded choice of its own, supported by very well-meaning professional advice. I've also read the messages from the various drivers. By the way, they are also divided, I can tell you. I was at an MBO this week where people thought the right of admission was absolutely fine. However, the impression that the MBO authorities want to create is that they must stop all forms of information. That's not the case, is it? That's more important than that, isn't it? Does Mr Rog not now have any confidence in an MBO student to assess the value of this information and the matching that the student receives?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u18	What I am raising here is the fact that in recent years there has been an enormous amount of investment in this admission procedure, in that intake, to say it with an ugly English word. It is very good and it is very positive that all these students are involved through their professional union or youth union. What I am saying is that it is conceivable that MBO institutions can only use teachers once for the guidance of those students. This could perhaps be moved to a later stage, i.e. when the binding study opinion can be given. I'd be worried about that. I do not think that this is right for a route in which so much investment has been made in recent times and which, moreover, can still be further evaluated and improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u19	If Mr Rog is concerned about this, shouldn't it be the logical conclusion that he should refrain from introducing a binding study opinion? Then that energy doesn't have to be in there anymore and it can continue to be put into that extremely important intake. It's still gonna happen. The only difference is that in the end the student makes the assessment and decides whether or not to do the training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u20	I believe that, contrary to Mr Van Meenen, I have confidence in the sector, the students and the teachers, who are laying down these procedures with each other at the front. I say this out of concern, in order to protect students from the wrong choice, from following a vocational training course which ultimately leads to unemployment. I think we have that responsibility. I'd be happy if we kept that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr Grashoff, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr President, on a point of order. Can I have a third time? We're talking about a bill here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u23	I gave the floor to Mr Grashoff, but if you ask so emphatically, I would not know why I would refuse to do so, provided you do not repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u24	No, not at all. If we follow Mr Rog's reasoning that new students should be protected from the wrong choice, shouldn't that be the case in higher education, according to the CDA? So does Mr Rog also argue here for selection at the gates of higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u25	One of the elements in my second-term speech is that I would like to see the whole process of rights, duties, flow and selection moments at the gate more coherently. I call on the Minister to do so and I have therefore tabled an amendment to remove that right of admission from this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u26	With your permission, Mr Van Meenen, we are now going to Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u27	I am a little surprised by Mr Rog's contribution, because I believe that we have a system of education in the Netherlands in which we have a stacking and proper pre-training gives us access to further training. It's not for nothing that the vmbo is called "preparing" mbo. It would therefore be logical for there to be a right to enter the MBO. It has always been so in the core of the Dutch education system. The second thing that surprises me, especially at this level, is the following. When you do not recognise that right of transition from VMBO to MBO, the situation arises in which people are forced by an educational institution not to obtain initial qualification in the labour market. After all, that right has been deprived of. I wonder if Mr Rog will take care of that later. The start-up qualification can then be hampered by the fact that a training says: you are simply not suitable; another training says so too. Eventually, a human being with his own opportunities for development has to look into it. Is Mr. Rog gonna take that for his hood?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u28	I have to correct Mr Grashoff, because there are certain requirements for admission, for example between VMBO and HAVO. There an admission code is not laid down in laws but in the sector. Moreover, we, like GroenLinks, want to have an evaluation of this in order to look at it in a coherent way and see whether we are doing it in the right way. There are also numerous selection options at the gate in higher education. So we are creating something new: a right of admission for just one education sector, whereas we have not organised it in other sectors. We have a responsibility to look at the system as a whole. I'm committed to noticing this, because I know this conversation is part of the legal process. It would be good if colleagues across the street could weigh that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u29	I feel that Mr Rog is sending a double message here. In my view, there is also a right of admission between MBO and HBO and between VWO and wo. Those are normal, common rights. The fact that other transitions in the education system are being affected seems to me to be the worst argument for allowing this to happen. Does it not mean that, on the whole, we have to follow the example of the HAVO, because that too is where admission requirements are being imposed that we are increasingly moving towards a system which does not take precedence over the development opportunities and the choice of the student or student? Are we not going to end up with an Anglo-Saxon model, where the training courses simply choose who they like best and find the most talented and the rest is simply written off? Is Mr. Rog signing for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u30	I find Mr Grashoff's image of the MBO sector more than shocking. He pretends that a bunch of teachers work there that does nothing but want to bully the student and not let the student in, and only looks at returns. I'm throwing that far from me. That's not how I know the sector. In the run-up to this second term, I have spoken to many people: administrators, school leaders, students and works councils. On the contrary, I hear only positive stories, also from the JOB, which is in consultation with the MBO Council in order to organise this better. All I hear from everyone is that the intake, the procedure towards admission, is very high quality and well used. I appreciate that. I think that's a good thing. I'd say give it a chance. I would say to Mr Grashoff that I am quite prepared to look at the system as a whole. How can we consider and, if necessary, adapt the transit and admission requirements? However, we do not want to do this through just a quickie for one sector, for 120 students who are probably not admitted on false grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u31	Now I really must distance myself from Mr Rog's words. I didn't put away an entire sector. I have spoken about a right and the consequences that it has. Any student or student who is unjustly rejected and restricted in his abilities is one too many. Nor have we laid down freedom of expression as a right because it is, in most cases, self-evidently recognised. We did that to set the standard. Mr Rog does not want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u32	I share Mr Grashoff's view that it is terrible for any student who will not be admitted on unjustified grounds. I think that's the same thing. The only question is whether this is the right means to set up ad hoc work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u33	I have heard Mr Rog speak positively about the binding study opinion. He also said in an interruption that he would support the proposal on the additional obligations to follow study-choice activities. I have a question about the amendment tabled by Mr Rog today on the abolition of the right of admission. This debate is about the law of admission. So what is Mr Rog's intention when it comes to the elements contained in this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u34	I think I said that in my introduction. This bill regulates a number of matters. One of the main elements is the right of admission. That is what my amendment is based on. My group supports the other points, the study choice advice, the date of registration and also the way in which the BSA is organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u35	A point of order, however. Since this is a key issue of the law, and I think it was the Minister's intention to make the right of admission a key issue, I wonder whether Mr Rog's amendment is in order. I ask Mr Rog or the President himself through the chairman. Is it allowed under the Rules of Procedure to table an amendment which is in fact contrary to the spirit of the law? Does it even make sense to vote on something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u36	In short, is your question really whether this amendment is a destructive amendment, as defined in Rule 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u37	You can quote that better than I do, but it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u38	Of course. First of all, Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u39	Here's what I'd like to consider. I have tabled an amendment, but I have a somewhat more extensive second-term contribution than you might expect from me. The reason for this is that I insist on rubbing the Minister's nose that removing this element from the law would be important in order to look in conjunction with the sectors at how we can do better. So we can call it a destructive amendment on formal grounds, but I am concerned about the following. The Minister has done an excellent job on a number of elements. I'm asking her for arguments. I am quite prepared to hear it, and if the Minister advises not to agree to it, we will hear it, but I will have a comment on it later. I'd say just leave this to the Minister. I would be sorry if a colleague of mine was now trying to get my amendment off the table on formal grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u40	Now it's getting a little complicated, so I'll make you a concrete proposal. The Rules of Procedure provide that an amendment shall be deemed admissible until the Court has declared it inadmissible. A proposal to that effect may be made, if necessary, with interruption of order, either by the President or by one of the Members. In particular, I hear Mr Duisenberg raise the question of whether that does not apply to this amendment, which Mr Rog has explained. I hear Mr Rog say at the heart of the matter that he wants to hear the Minister's opinion first, and that after that the Chamber deals with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u42	I propose that we follow the latter, at least for the time being. In other words, we await the Minister's opinion first, so her opinion on the amendment, and then discuss further how the Chamber looks at whether or not it is a destructive amendment. That would be my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u43	To colour that a little bit, I have one more question for Mr Rog. If his amendment is not adopted, what will he do with the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u44	That's all of later concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u45	I can also tell Mr Van Meenen that I will finish my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u46	As I said, that's from later on. That's coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u47	One more question to the Minister. What effects will the adoption of this law have on efficiency? If the flow within the MBO is the minister's concern, why doesn't she adjust the cascade cost? Wouldn't that be a more effective method? The CDA is concerned that the number of early school leavers will increase again after a continuing trend of 15 years, with the adoption of this bill. This is not in the interests of society, not in the interests of the MBO schools, but above all not in the interests of the student concerned. I therefore call on the Minister to look carefully and coherently at the right to education, the flow between sectors and admission procedures. The CDA has therefore tabled an amendment to delete the right of admission from the law. If this amendment cannot be expected to count on a majority in the House of Representatives, I will ask for an article-by-article vote in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr. Chairman. Where fanatic football can lead... hence I almost stumbled into the microphone. The first term of this debate has been done by my colleague Jadnansing. She was passionate about all those mbos who deserve a fair chance. It will have to do this in practice from now on in education. We will undoubtedly visit her once on one of the many work visits we make. Much has already been said about this bill, about why you can be for or against. When I saw this bill coming along, I thought as an old mbo: hey, why isn't this settled yet? It should be obvious that, if you meet the right pre-school education, the right to be admitted to the education you wish for, about which parents are thinking along and about which you do not just make a decision, is properly secured. We can say here that very few students are involved, but at least one is too many. So let's just settle this in a proper way. That is why my group is very content with this bill, at least with the substance of this bill: the right of admission. Last time Mr Jadnansing asked questions about the implementation of the binding study opinion. We have received a detailed letter from the cabinet on this subject, also explaining how the binding study advice could work in the MBO. We did not think that this was entirely sufficient in terms of the position of the student and the obligations of the institutions. I will not read the amendment completely, which seems to me to be unusual, and also in view of the time, but there is an amendment tabled by Mr Grashoff and myself to ensure that binding study advice is properly carried out, so that the students know better what they are generic about. To anyone who now calls for binding study advice to be wrong, I say that current practice is not always right either. The arbitrariness of institutions on this point is enormous. It seems to me to be a good idea to guarantee rights and obligations in a more generic way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u49	For ease of reference, you spoke of the amendment to item No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u50	Excuse me, Mr President, I do not have the number of the amendment ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u51	No, that's why I'm giving it a minute. It is the amendment in part No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thanks for the clarity. It is the Grashoff/Mohandis amendment. There is also a lot of talk about the sector. The sector is more than the MBO Council as far as we are concerned. Those are all the professional associations. But above all, it is important to stress that parts of the sector welcome this proposal. Take, for example, an educational union like AOb, but also JOB, the youth representatives in the MBO. So the picture has been very one-sided over the last few weeks, and I do not think that this bill is correct. I explained the amendment on the binding study opinion. I ask the Minister how she will ensure that, if that law is passed, all the parties in the field will be able to make every effort to work towards the actual new situation. This also requires a cultural change in terms of intake and registration dates. In any case, I am content with the way things are going in higher education. We see that such a registration date, whenever you place it, also does something with the timely registration of students. So it seems to me to be an improvement for the MBO, precisely to prevent young people from making their choice too late and to ensure that they also reflect on that next step in time with the institutions and with their parents. In this context, study-choice activities and everything that goes with them are essential. The fact that we can agree to the legislative proposal seems to me to be self-evident, provided that certain amendments are not adopted. The final weighting of my group will therefore also depend on what I shall use in other words than Mr Duisenberg's overall picture of what is and what is not adopted. I would ask the Minister if she can comment on a letter from VNO-NCW on the bbl-route. There is a lot of confusion about this, when I really wonder where the problems are when I read the bill. So I would like an explanation on the bbl route and the group that would be in trouble if the date of 1 April were to be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u53	"Bbl" stands for professional...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u54	The vocational guidance learning path. There are several learning paths in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u55	That's right. The public gallery is not very full, but we always take it into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. Before the recess, we stopped the discussion of this bill for a moment to come back to it after the recess. Perhaps it was also wise to blow out and see what a solution might be, because it started to become quite stalemate. There is a good legislative proposal at the heart of the matter which regulates the right of admission. You could almost say that this bill should have been superfluous. However, because too often in practice there is improper refusal of students, we are obliged to lay it down strictly in a law, to regulate what should have been normal, even for the MBO, but tight and strict. The bill contains a strange bitter pill: the binding study advice. My group is not in favour of this. We weren't when it was proposed for higher education. We have made several attempts, and will continue to do so, to get it out of there. We have to note that there is a dilemma for my group too, because we very much want to have the right of admission properly regulated. Let us also note that I am very concerned about the commitment of the MBO Council, the dome of government, and I am very keen on the idea that it is very wise to introduce this law as soon as possible. If I may say it unparliamentaryly, I have been able to listen with curly toes to the efforts of the MBO Council. I think the problem is being trivialized. I think this dome should have said: "Of course there is a right of admission. We're gonna take care of that properly and neatly. If that is to be legally anchored, then we are in favour of it, because then we also have more control over our members." That's not what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u58	We were just having a conversation about it. I ask Mr Grashoff whether he has also spoken to teachers, school leaders and administrators, and not just to the Ton Heerts of the MBO Council. Did he talk to these people and just listen to what they think about refusing students? Does he think this is just to bother those students?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u59	The main thing is that this cannot be done. I also disagree with Mr Rog's approach that a student should be protected from himself at that time. It is a choice of its own, in the case of minors, a choice made together with the parents. It's a choice. It is an important mistake in our society to assume that, thinking from institutions, we believe that we should protect someone from themselves in such a way, so that the person concerned will spend his life walking around with the idea: I wanted to, but it has made it impossible for me. We shouldn't want that. I'm not saying that every student who's refused will by definition make it to the finish line. The opposite is not true either. Nor can Mr Rog justify this in any way. However, it is important that your starting point is that you offer people opportunities and that you also offer people opportunities to make a wrong choice. Yeah, I'd like to do that for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u60	It is good that this ideological debate is taking place, but I am a little concerned about the broad coalition that apparently supports this reasoning. I believe that society does have an obligation, and I know that these teachers in the MBO sector do feel the responsibility to give careful advice in all conscience and indeed sometimes to protect young people from themselves. They do so either because these young people will not get a job or because it is predictable that they will not finish their studies. To be honest, I find it irresponsible what Mr Grashoff wants. He wants children to just have to take the helm and do everything they can and cannot be protected from themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr Rog's reasoning is not correct. We have an educational system in which we train students in the preparatory MBO. If they obtain that diploma, they are the principal fit to pass into the MBO. Otherwise, they wouldn't be able to pass the diploma. The assumption that you can decide on a micro level from the outside for a moment who does have a chance and who does not do injustice to the diversity of people and injustice to the fundamental right to education. We are talking here to a large extent about students who are still subject to qualification. It wrongs the fact that people make choices about how they want to live their lives and what opportunities they want to take. I would really like to appeal to Mr Rog to think again. I have the feeling that Mr Rog is getting himself into the crossroads of an old-fashioned paternalist view which is apparently present in a majority of the school boards at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u62	We're diving into ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u63	I hear a very high tone with Mr Grashoff. I have organized intakes for 34 years, Mr Van Meenen knows all about it. He's only done that for 33 years. Now Mr Grashoff tells me that I have been there as a representative of an anonymous institution which is sent by bureaucrats and which must keep students out of the door, is paternalistic and so on. If I tell Mr Grashoff that I and all my colleagues have done this on extremely honest grounds, in good conversations with students, where does he get the idea that there are all sorts of anonymous bureaucrats in the service of drivers who are constantly refusing to accept these students? Where did that sound come from? What exactly is his worldview of teachers and teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u64	I believe that Mr Beertema and many others have had, have had, have had, have had, and have given, opinions. At the heart of the matter, however, it is not a question of preventing Mr Beertema or, even more importantly, of opposing an opinion. The point is that a binding, hard conclusion is drawn that deprives someone of an opportunity. That's the difference. I am in favour of students and upcoming students being properly informed and of providing good and convincing advice. The strength of an opinion must lie in the power of persuasion and not in the fact that there is such a stick behind the door. A recommendation does not even need to be taken, because the student is already sent away. That's the difference, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u65	I would like to come back to that paternalism. Have you, Mr Grashoff, ever participated in intake interviews? Then you could have run into them, all those students with these completely wrong assumptions, with very romantic images of their profession and their own abilities. That's a lot of resentment. That's really annoying. Have you ever seen that before? Those are the vulnerable students who need to be protected from themselves. Otherwise, they will lose three or four years of their lives to an education that offers no comfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr Beertema, it is a question of giving these pupils, these young people, opportunities. They might do that on the wrong grounds. It may as well be that they are rejected on the wrong grounds and they would be successful if they were allowed. You can't predict that in advance. It also makes no sense to find some sort of ultimate truth about it. The ultimate advice and the ultimate assessment do not exist. That means you're falling back on a basic principle. The basic principle is that it is ultimately your own responsibility to choose that course, even if you get advice. Once again, if they are minors, it is to a large extent also the responsibility of the parents. That's a basic principle. If that's what you're gonna do, you're gonna be on the soap ramp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u67	I just get the impression that it's also very complicated to find the truth between you two, so we're just gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u68	The binding study advice is a bitter pill for us, and unacceptable as it was in the law. Why is it unacceptable? It meant de facto that where admission rights are regulated at the front door, after three months there is suddenly a back door allowing students to be removed from the training. This means that there could be a cure that is worse than the disease than it actually solves something. I'm really sorry about that. It would mean that, despite our extraordinary desire to regulate the right of admission properly, we would have to vote against this law. That is why I sought a compromise. This is an explicit compromise, because I am against the BSA (binding study opinion). I will also support Mr Van Meenen's amendment on this point. The compromise is aimed at looking at whether there is a way not to throw the child away with the bath water. That was my bet. That may be a rather atypical role from GroenLinks, but I have done it and I fully support it. I think that the amendment that is now before us is to a large extent transforming the BSA into a means of hot transfer from one training to another and not causing a breakdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u69	If GroenLinks is so fatally opposed to the binding study advice, why doesn't GroenLinks just vote against this part of the law and vote against the other good things that are in the law? Of course, this is a little skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u70	I think that's a very clean policy. It means that the SP chooses to vote against one part, and then to support the whole law in which that terrible BSA is involved. It has a worse result in the end, but politically it keeps very clean hands. My style isn't, to be perfectly honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u71	This is a very normal procedure in this house of democracy. We have indeed said that there are beautiful things in this law. We are very much in favour of the right of admission, because we think that if you have a VMBO degree, you should simply be admitted to the MBO, despite your home situation, your age or your limitation. We are now trying, together with D66 and the amendment, to remove the binding study opinion. If that does not work, a group will be free to vote against this section. Mr Grashoff is now simply going to agree to a compromise. It's like GroenLinks has a penchant for power.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u72	This is a special situation. If I follow Mrs Siderius' reasoning, it means that she is not going to support a next best amendment, and that is what I hear from her words, while she is still free to vote for or against the law or any part of it. So I invite her to support the amendment at least, because it does not benefit, then it does not harm. It is Mrs Siderius' freedom, which I fully accept, to vote against any part of the law, but it is my commitment to bring this law, with that important right of admission, to a successful conclusion. That's really the jumping point for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u73	Last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u74	The binding study advice is simply a form of arbitrariness. Students may not be rejected at the start of the training, but after four months. It's just a back door to get rid of students after all. And then GroenLinks says: well, you don't want that at the beginning, but this is a bit, so you should agree to that. I think you can also be very principled in this. The SP doesn't want this. We believe that it is very bad for the accessibility of education and that young people are already rejected at an early age and that their future path may well be broken. The SP really can't agree to that, but GroenLinks apparently does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u75	If that reasoning is correct, the SP should simply reject the whole bill, because that is the consequence. It is the direct consequence of Mrs Siderius' reasoning. I'd be sorry to hear that, because that's what I think the baby with the bath water is throwing away. It means that this important right of admission is not regulated. It is a very beautiful and pure political story, which is characteristic of the SP, but let us not try to find a solution together in a multiparty system and keep the big one equal to the sideline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u76	First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for this fundamental story about the right of admission. I fully agree with that. I would also like to underline the words which Mr Grashoff addressed to Mr Rog, who pointed out that this might make it even more important to do the whole intake, which is already doing well, even better. After all, that depends a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u77	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u78	I have a little less appreciation of his attitude towards the binding study opinion. That too is an extremely fundamental point. In fact, GroenLinks in this Chamber always goes the furthest on this point as far as higher education is concerned. The GroenLinks election programme again states that it does not want a binding study opinion. You can attach exactly the same principles to this. I really don't understand why GroenLinks chooses to let an all-ingang coalition go here. Then let it happen, because we have elections in six months and then everything is possible again. GroenLinks just lets it happen. Apparently, one principle outweighs the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u79	Do we have an election in six months? There's no sign of that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u80	The VVD isn't in either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u81	There is always a future in which you can sharpen things further and the like. I shall now turn to Mr Van Meenen's amendment (34457, No. 12), of which I am a co-rapporteur, I wholeheartedly support. But the logic and the way in which we operate together here can lead to you not being 100% right. I think D66 can handle that very well as a rule. A second question is always a bit rude, but I do wonder how D66 is going to behave with regard to this amendment. I too, and I am quite honest in this, have indicated that this is a compromise. However, I would like to stand in favour of this, because I think that this is an important way of getting rid of the stinger. This amendment will no longer allow students to be excluded. I feel that Mrs Siderius has not read this amendment properly at all, because this amendment makes it really impossible for schools to say to students: you need to wolf, you need to get out of here, because we don't want to see you here anymore. That is really something that has been secured, and that is an important turning point for me. I do not think that any compromise is good, but I do think that this compromise is good enough for me to finally find the legislative proposal acceptable. The most important thing, and Mr Van Meenen is right, is that we regulate the right of admission. Surely it would be a shame if those who ultimately do not want anything were to end up here? I find that difficult to imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u82	What Mr Grashoff does not seem to realize is that the right of admission is about a limited group. That group may be larger or smaller than a few hundred students, but it is relatively small. That doesn't mean we shouldn't, but it is. Fortunately, most students in the Netherlands end up in the right place. The binding study advice, which is now being introduced by GroenLinks, concerns all students. From now on, all students must live under the sword of binding study advice. We know very well how this is going in higher education at the moment. Mr Grashoff has huge objections to this and wants to get it out of there, while he is now introducing it to all students in the MBO. That's a big deal. Think before you begin!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u83	If I continue this reasoning strictly, I fear that D66 will soon reject this bill and join Mr Rog's camp. However, this does not relate very well to the interruptions that have just taken place. I agree with Mr Van Meenen because I do not want a binding study opinion either. I am going to support the amendment and if it achieves a majority, as far as I am concerned, we are where we want to be. But I don't think this could just be the case. The other argument is very difficult and perhaps very pragmatic; I would like to point that out. If we simply remove the binding study advice from the law and replace it with nothing else, the law does not guarantee that it is not by side and therefore outside the legislation, for example through the education agreement, that binding study advice is being re-introduced at individual level by institutions that seem to be attracted to it. It could be worse in the end. I would point that out to myself as well as to Mr Van Meenen. Sometimes you have to pay attention in the harsh practice to see if you are working on getting a real result at the end. I think that is a real result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u84	Are you at the end of your speech, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr Mohandis of the Labour Party will then follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u87	It is a credit to Mr Grashoff that he is looking at a good way of anchoring it in the end. I object to the picture outlined of the binding study advice in the MBO. Two colleagues are against something, but they are for something that is the current state of affairs in the MBO. This also means a hidden binding study opinion that is subject to randomness. I think "against something" is something for certain parties. You're gonna have to sketch an alternative. If we did not have binding study advice, we would fall back on the existing situation. I know from experience that this is really much worse because of the randomness that arises and the fact that there is no generic element in the law. You can be against something, but then you have to know what the current practice of things is. I'm secretly saying this to the colleagues behind me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr Mohandis has a point in himself. If you ask me what it should be ideal, I say: no binding study advice, but then we also arrange through the law that there should not be a back door at institution level. I would be happy to table another amendment in order to do so, perhaps together with Mr Van Meenen. I'd love to! But I do not think that is a good argument to say now: then we are just doing a binding study advice. Once again, the essence of this amendment is to remove the stinger. Mr Mohandis will probably agree with me. It shouldn't be about sending away anymore, it should be about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr Grashoff, that is going to be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u90	...the transfer of students from A to B.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr Grashoff, you must not talk any further now. I say that's going to be a repeat of moves. We need to speed up the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u92	I thought I'd finish my sentence. Anyway, that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u94	We agree on the substance of the amendment, because our signatures are both below it. That's fine. However, I would like to stress that it is an improvement on the existing situation. If colleagues are against a BSA, but do not outline an alternative, they do not serve many young people in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u95	What is your answer to this, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u96	This is a statement, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr Van Meenen, I am not going to stop your very last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr Mohandis is actually talking indirectly to me. That's what he says, so it's not even circumstantial. I would like to respond to his words, if you will allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yeah, but short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u100	The suggestion is raised that current practice is very bad and that the study agreement is a bad thing. I'll fight that. I'd like to record that here for the Acts. The study agreement is an agreement between the institution and the student, which includes the rights and obligations of the institution. That is the big difference from a binding study opinion. That is also why the current practice is no worse than a binding study advice that is only about the rights of the institution to dismiss the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u101	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u102	I would like to respond briefly to that. Of course, I am not opposed to a good educational agreement being concluded with mutual rights and obligations, but Mr Van Meenen knows as well as I do that it does not come about in a free negotiation with equal partners. The situation may then arise, sometimes there is such a thing as the fact that the education agreement regulates matters that are at odds with the right of admission and our desire to keep freedom as wide as possible. That is the practice at the moment, and that can increasingly become practice if nothing is regulated by law. By way of comparison, I mention the situation that was going on this afternoon about contracts in secondary education, where schools suddenly think they can keep people away from an exam. These are practices that we run into and which we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u103	Thank you very much. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mr. Chairman. I have to admit that I find the weighing-up I have to make on this bill a difficult one. How do you find a balance between, on the one hand, the importance and wishes of students and thinking from opportunities for students and, on the other hand, the justified care of educational institutions to ensure the quality of education and the care to bring pupils to justice? Indeed, the staff of such an educational institution brings with it a wealth of experience. That all weighs in on the advice. We drove as follows. The MBO is final education. That means that if you think from opportunities for students or students, the right of admission as formulated in the bill is ultimately acceptable to us. The Minister rightly states that such a right of admission must be seen in relation to the character of MBO as a final education, which qualifies for the labour market and therefore does not lend itself to fundative education. With that, the MBO has a stand-alone position. But if you're gonna take care of admission rights on the one hand, you're gonna need a balance on the other. That is why our group will vote in favour of the binding study opinion. Of course that must be surrounded with care, but I am not afraid of that at all if you know the educational world a bit from within. I totally agree that things go wrong every now and then, but you should not base your policy on that. A binding study opinion is an important tool for the assessment. It is also sufficiently carefully embedded in the proposal so that when pupils pass by themselves, overestimate themselves or simply lag behind and fail to fulfil their obligations at the time when they have made use of the right of admission, the school can take its measures at that time. In this sense, we see this as checks-and-balances and ultimately support the legislative proposal. I could just imagine that this development in the MBO generates all kinds of new actions in the area of supervision. I am a little concerned that this is going to become a measuring bar, for example how often a binding study advice has been issued or you name it. My question to the Minister is how she intends to prevent it from again leading to all kinds of obligations in the MBO sector for schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u105	This brings you to the end of your speech. I see that Mr Duisenburg wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u106	I would like to thank Mr Bishop for his presentation. He and I are on the same page when it comes to the need to balance the right of admission with the binding study advice. I would like to ask Mr Bishop if he will support my amendment in the same balance sheet, which states that a student must have taken part in study-choice activities and must have registered in time to finally be able to exercise that right of admission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u107	Frankly, we have not yet taken a position on this within the group. A number of amendments may have the unintended effect of putting a lot of extra red tape into schools, and we are pretty shy of that. If that is the effect, then we still have to look at it. I am strongly inclined to advise the group to vote against such an amendment. But I can't say for sure yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u108	I hear Mr Bishop say that he still has to look at this particular amendment. My question is then whether he can positively assess my invitation to a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u109	If you can do that on Mr Duisenberg's behalf, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr. Chairman. The PVV fully agrees with the MBO Council today and that should be called a miracle, because that has not happened before. Firstly, we are talking about vocational training. I would like to emphasise that. As a successful professional you not only need knowledge and skills, for example, for which a VMBO diploma is a guarantee, but it is also a very different competence that makes you fit for that profession, and that is what the intake procedure is for. As far as we are concerned, the intake procedure on these rocks takes place with care and integrity. I have just spoken about this in the interrupting debate with Mr Grashoff. The teachers in these roc's are especially the professionals who are able to engage in the conversation with potential students. They do so on the basis of their own knowledge and experience in that field, and they do so to the best of their consciences in order to protect students, which is not paternalistic, but pedagogical, and that is something completely different for a wrong choice based on false assumptions. That's common. That is the reality and the result is that I want to outline this at least a lost year and in the worst case a lost education and a huge disappointment, if finding that coveted job does not succeed because the employer does not have a binding admission policy. He's just not gonna pick the candidate. In addition, there are about 150 complaints about around 160,000 applications, and in this respect the law that is now being enforced is really disproportionate. A right of admission may also result in unmotivated students hanging weight in a class for a year as dead, spoiling the climate there and inevitably lowering the level. This is not justified by all those motivated and ambitious MBO students who are also fully entitled to a good training course. Finally, we find it incomprehensible, as Mr Rog said, that the parties who embrace this law are always talking about the autonomy of the teacher, but MBO teachers are currently trying to take away one of those last pieces of autonomy, not least with an disproportionate law that interferes with the very first piece of an educational learning process, namely intake. That is, as far as we are concerned, micromanagement down to the classroom, begging, and above all distrust, I say this to all those parties................................................................................................................................................................... These are four very good reasons, we think, for voting against this bill. As far as we are concerned, the amendments are not going to remedy them either. We are going to look favourably at the Rog amendment, but we will hear it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u111	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister states that she is prepared to respond immediately, so I am happy to give her the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to the Chamber that today we can deal with the second term of this bill. I would send a letter to the Chamber in the recess, including on the binding study advice and Actal, and asked the Chamber to deal with the second period as soon as possible in this week, with a view to further examination in the First Chamber. I think it is of the utmost importance that students and students in the Netherlands should be able to follow the study they want, provided they meet the right pre-training requirements. We have recently been reminded by Mr Van Meenen that, among other things, JOB faces examples of students who have been refused. They have also given examples in recent days. "The intake went very well, but when the school saw my care file, I was still refused." "You have too much intelligence." "You're too old." These are all examples of students who want to study but cannot start anyway. I was allowed to open the MBO year last Monday. In my speech, I said that the extent of our civilisation is determined by the opportunities that people get to become who they want to be. The training you would like to take is essential. As the examples of JOB show, this is not self-evident. Unfortunately. That is why this bill is important. We see transitions remain a stumbling block and selection thresholds, if we do nothing, rise. In particular, students with low-educated parents suffer from this. I think that this is an alarming development, because students who receive less luggage from home, for example in the form of their parents' education level, their standard of income or socio-cultural capital, are given less opportunities. Mr Rog wondered whether this should no longer be considered in a system. Yeah, and we did. We have the report from the education inspector, which indicates that the transitions are the very ones where unequal opportunities arise. We've had the OECD vet our entire education system. And what does the OECD say? I'm glad we're in good shape. Our education is of high quality and offers many equal opportunities compared to other countries. But the OECD also says that these opportunities are under pressure. And where are those odds under pressure? Especially in the transitions of education. As Minister of Education, it is my ambition to reverse this development and achieve equal opportunities for all students. That is why I announced at the time in my letter on vulnerable young people that I would make this bill, for all young people who have the right pre-training. Of course it has to be, because otherwise you will create illusions, as I say to the spokesperson of the PVV. So you have to have the right pre-school education and if you have it, your background should not play a role in accessing the education of your choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u113	The Minister says: we have all kinds of reports and they point to vulnerabilities in our system. I believe that too, but why do we not look at this in conjunction with the sectors and do we not arrive at one new way of passing through and a possible selection at the gate? 'Cause the minister's only going for the MBO now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u114	I come right to Mr Rog's amendment to item No. 20. When you look at the system, you see that there is some form of admission in all educational sectors, except in the MBO. So I'm fixing an omission in the system. In higher education, in further education, we have a right of admission. If you want to get from MBO to HBO, you have a right of admission. If you want to get out of vwo to college, you also have a right of admission. Indeed, in primary and secondary education, it is different, but it is true that all public schools are subject to admission requirements. Why else is that arranged? Because denominations play a much bigger role there. But even there, a school can't just say: you don't like us, you're too smart or too stupid, you don't get in here. If this is done, it will be on the basis of agreements with the sector and will lead to huge discussions. Look at the appointments in the vo whether you can go from vmbo to havo and what numbers you have to get for that. I very much agree with Mr Grashoff that our system is so structured that you can go to the next level with a diploma and the right pre-training. I think that is a very essential part of the system. That is why this law can be very well integrated into the system. The law is in line with the system because an omission is repaired in it. This means that I must really strongly discourage Mr Rog's amendment, because it brings out a very essential part of the law. In fact, what Mr Rog is saying is that the board ultimately decides on admission and not the student who can choose to study her or his preference. This ultimately means more power for directors, because there will be a binding study advice and no right of admission. This keeps the difference that already exists between the MBO on the one hand and all other education sectors on the other, and I find that very undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u115	The Minister falls off Ton Heerts from the MBO Council, which is still up to that point, but she actually falls off all those teachers, all those intakes, all those people who are involved in the process. The Minister said that as if governing could decide in a form of arbitrariness whether or not students are admitted to training. That is not the situation, that is the Minister's frame, that is the frame of the left-wing parties and the VVD. I do not think that does justice to the current situation. In her introduction, the Minister says: it's all getting worse with that intake. But I do understand that in consultation between the board and the JOB the best and most careful organisation possible is being looked at. Where does the Minister get the idea that things are getting worse and worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'm gonna take care of that with this bill, too. You get an early application and thus a warm transfer between vmbo and mbo, where we sometimes lose students. This means more attention to intake, as we also have the study choice check in higher education. This law also improves this. That doesn't mean I don't trust intakes. In general, intakers are very professional, but that does not mean that they are now using a transparent and comparable approach of arguments, because there is no such thing. That is one of the major problems we see. The number and type of complaints indicate that the arguments of the schools are often unclear. I also hear stories from intakes who say they don't want too many students with problems like adhd in class and at some point say someone doesn't fit in. I understand that from their individual perspective, but given the social consequences, it is not good. I'd like to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u117	I am glad that the Minister, unlike her earlier frame, no longer says it is the directors. It is indeed the intakes, the professionals, the teachers at the MBO schools who now have a right to be taken away from them by these parties. Does the Minister agree with me that the vast majority of all those negative decisions were decisions that were in the best interests of the student and not taken in bad faith?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u118	Let me correct Mr Rog. He's now saying I'm choosing a different frame. I'm not. I say: I can move into the position of an intaker, but it is ultimately the board, not for nothing, in the MBO legislation the competent authority, which bears the responsibility. I therefore insist that Mr Rog's amendment reduces the student's legal status and strengthens the position of the person who is ultimately responsible for decisions on who is or is not adopted, namely the driver. The MBO is now the sector with the least rights for young people and the most freedom of policy for drivers. So I do believe that this bill is necessary. Mr. Rog asked how often things are going well. Of course, it goes well all the time. But we make laws here very often for those situations where things are not going well. If we were to reverse that here, it would give us a hell of a lot of time. It would mean a lot less meeting if we only made laws about things that go well. I note that different studies, such as the 2013 ECB study, have shown that selection is to a greater or lesser extent in half of the institutions. Students often experience negative advice to start training as a refusal. I am therefore concerned not only with whether or not I refuse to study, but also with the quality of the argumentation and the effect it has on students. After all, when you get such a decision, it works very negatively for your self-image and for your self-confidence. I find that really indigestible and unacceptable. As far as I am concerned, education must offer those opportunities, and that is more true of those who do not get it from home. So I really think it is important to deal with this in this way. I reject Mr Rog's amendment to item No. 20 strong. I informed the Chamber in my letter about Actal. No further questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u119	Mr Duisenberg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u120	Yes, Mr President, I had asked, I believe, through you, whether we would ask the Minister about the conclusion of the discussion whether that amendment was destructive or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u121	The Minister can advise on this. Whether an amendment is considered destructive is decided by the Chamber itself. But you can ask the Minister's advice on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u122	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u123	I will stick to the words that I strongly advise against the amendment, because it really takes the core of the legislative proposal. If this amendment were to be adopted in the near future, but also if the amendment on the binding study opinion were to be adopted, the balance, which Mr Bishop spoke about, would have disappeared completely. That would mean I'm going to consider the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u124	Obviously. Mr Van Meenen, do you have a question on this point, or on another point that has already been raised in the Minister's reply? Otherwise, we'll wait for the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u125	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u126	The minister's just getting started. Madam Secretary continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u127	I was at Actal's. No further questions were asked, but thank you for Mr Rog's words. I will go into the questions that have been asked, including the binding study opinion, and the amendments. But I would like to take this opportunity to present another letter of amendment with a purely technical amendment. This is a clearly incorrect reference that is being corrected. Article 8.2.2a, second paragraph, now contains a reference to "grounds referred to in the first sentence', whereas those grounds are set out in paragraph 1. That letter of amendment has just been submitted. I hope it can go around. We now know that this is a completely technical change. It is not my intention to make any changes to the substance by means of devious means. Mr Duisenberg has the amendment to item No. 11 still mentioned. I've already responded to it in the first term, so I'm gonna leave it for what it is. In Mr Duisenberg's amendment to item No. 18 it is arranged that there is no right of admission for students who have not applied in good time or who have not participated in take-up activities required by the institution. I am glad that the mandatory intake activities are not affected. I think it is of the utmost importance that students are well supervised, even if they are not able to handle a study or if they are in the wrong pre-school. In the end, it remains the decision of the student, as is currently the case in higher education. I therefore understand Mr Duisenberg's motivation, because he actually draws the parallel with higher education. I am glad that he makes an exception for those who are still subject to learning and qualification. Then it is obvious to draw the comparison with, for example, vo, because those students simply have to go to school. I'm glad he made them a safety net. At the same time, Mr Duisenberg says that prospective students who register late or who do not participate in compulsory intake activities cannot always follow the study they would like to follow. It is up to the institution, the school to admit them, but they are admissible. If they register after the date in my proposal is that 1 April of this year they may be admitted, but the school does not have to allow them. On the one hand, this stimulates a very good choice of study preparation, because it is an additional incentive to register in good time and thus an additional incentive to be able to conduct that study choice interview properly. It will sometimes lead to disappointment. If this amendment is adopted, I think it is very important to give very good information with the VMBO schools and the MBO schools of upcoming students: if you want to be able to do the education of your preference, please register in good time. All things considered, I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I say to Mr Bishop that I do not expect this to lead to many administrative problems. He noted that that was a consideration for him. I see that we also deal with this article in higher education. I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u128	I do foresee major problems, particularly for a certain category of students, especially if the amendment by GroenLinks is adopted, namely those who receive negative binding study advice after 1 April. If that is the case and if the date of registration remains on 1 April, then Mr Duisenberg's amendment will lose the right of admission that is now in the law. They will no longer be able to follow the study of their choice. If they have rightly or wrongly received a negative binding study opinion, they will be escorted to something else. However, they no longer have a right of admission there, because the date of 1 April has already expired. According to Mr Grashoff's amendment, the binding study opinion can only be given after 1 April, at the earliest nine months after the start of training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u129	I shall now come to Mr Grashoff's amendment. It also states that the school has an obligation to accompany the student to another degree programme. I will say this once more: it has not been said that students should not be admitted, because they are allowed to do so. However, if someone has already had a binding study advice once, it is of course very important that the school and the student think together: what is a good solution in that case and what suits you? Then perhaps it is obvious that there is a little more talk about it and that in some cases there is also more control. So I don't see that problem that way. I say to Mr Van Meenen, who stated more generally in his term that he is afraid that this would be detrimental to repeaters and late detectors, that I do not see that problem as well. The starting point is that prospective students who apply after 1 April can still be admitted to the training of their preference. So it has not been said that this can no longer be done. The school must then allow, but does not necessarily have to do so anymore when the training is full. In the case of training where a capacity limitation is applied because it is full, there may therefore be a problem. But then the institution or school should give the prospective student or the student with a binding study advice the opportunity to register with another programme. In doing so, the institution shall take into account the preferences of the prospective student. I would add that I do not expect this bill to cause more early school leaving and switching, since it is also necessary to find a place for prospective students who apply later. On the contrary...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u131	The Minister's talking out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u132	I am also trying to answer Mr Van Meenen's question. Finally, I think it will reduce early school leaving because we no longer lose students between the transition from vmbo to mbo. We know there's a lot of school leavers out there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u133	This is a very comprehensive answer, but not the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u134	That still doesn't give you the right to talk through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u135	I turn to the President on a point of order. I would like an answer to my question. It's an interruption. The Minister is reading prepared texts that have nothing to do with this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u136	If you wish to contradict the Minister, I will give you all the opportunity to do so, but not after she has just spoken. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u137	Fine, but I would like to say that you, as President, may have to watch a little more, and that is how I also know you about the fact that there will be an answer to the interruption. I didn't get that. My question is very specific. It's April 1st. That is the fatal date according to the Minister's amendment which has just been given the Chamber's verdict. After that, the student gets a negative advice. It happens. Then the date for applying for admission to another training is over. Then the Minister can say: yes, but it is still not excluded that he will be admitted. No, that's exactly what this law is about. After all, that's the way it is now. My question is very specific: what happens to students who have negative binding study advice after 1 April? Do they, in the eyes of the Minister, hold the right of admission in another training course or not? If not, what is her conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u138	I have just replied a little more comprehensively, because I do not see any substantial difference between a BSA and the other groups that Mr Van Meenen mentioned, namely those who later resign, switchers and early school leavers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u139	A BSA is a binding study opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u140	Here too, if they have had a binding study advice, because they have to undergo training, they will no longer be able to follow the training of their preference. They can still sign up, because they're already in school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u141	I am fighting the latter, because the effort required to find another education does not have to be limited to the school on which the student resides. That might as well be another education. We must note that if Mr Grashoff's amendment and Mr Duisenberg's amendment are adopted, 1 April will be a fatal date. Anyone who subsequently receives a binding study advice should not be allowed to do so, loses his right to admission to the training it is about to become and who hopefully is the right choice. That's the conclusion. I don't know if everyone here realizes that, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u142	I think there's really been a misunderstanding here. If you get a binding study advice, the school has a duty to find you another education. Then there's a situation where you don't necessarily have to sign up before April 1st, because there's nothing you can do about it. You will only receive a binding study advice after that. So you can't blame the student for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u143	This is extremely relevant, because the Minister is actually saying here in so many words: people who are not to blame for this, that is something other than people who register and so on and who could not have known before that they have to go to another training because they only receive the binding study advice after 1 April, retain the right of admission to another training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u144	The school has a duty for those students to seek another education. If they could not sign up before 1 April because of a cause outside themselves, namely because they received a binding study advice from the school, they can still sign up for another education. That is possible after 1 April...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u145	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Apologies. This is listening very closely. They can get themselves into another education...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr Van Meenen, you will let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u147	Again, if a student receives a binding study advice after 1 April, that student has not been in control himself at what time he signs up. You can't blame that student that he didn't sign up before April 1st. This means that in this case the school must also allow the student after 1 April, because that school must therefore seek a different education for the student who has received a binding study advice. This is also strictly regulated in Mr Grashoff's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u148	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u149	Let me explain to you why I'm so strict. The Minister's words are important for the history of law. So it's good to weigh them and have them exactly, in context and completely here. That is why I will not allow Members, anyone, to talk through the Minister in such a way. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr President, I apologize. You're absolutely right to correct me. The Minister now says that a school should allow a student who receives a binding study advice after 1 April and who goes to another programme to receive the training they then find with each other. That can only be achieved if that education is found at the school where that student is already in. My question to the Minister will then be: does that also apply to another school? After all, this training can be found in another MBO school.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u151	This could happen, because if a student is at a small institution, for example, the school could come to the conclusion, in consultation with the student, that other courses at that school do not meet that student either. So a school has to let someone else in. I was just looking for the article. I didn't find it that fast, but luckily I get it a little faster through my associates. Maybe that'll help. You can read along: Article 8.0.1 (3)... I have to look for it myself. 3a. 8.0.1 Article 3a: "a participant who applies to a vocational training other than that in which he was originally registered but who can prove that the notification is the result of an termination of the registration pursuant to Article 8.1.7a, at a time when he could not register by 1 April prior to the year of study for which he wishes to register" and "participants to an experiment continuing learning lines vmbo-mbo as referred to..." I'll come back to that in a minute. I'm gonna check on my associates. I just need to get the exact article, 'cause that'll help...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u152	Is it appropriate if we suspend for two minutes? Does that help you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yes. It's possible. Five minutes of suspension will help, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u154	That might be so convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u155	Because it's a piece of law, I really want to do it exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u156	Sure. I'm suspending the meeting for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u157	I would ask Members to take their seats again. This does not automatically mean that you are taking part in the interrupting microphone, I say to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u158	That's where I was standing when they suspended me. I think the Minister is coming up with an answer to my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u159	Don't move. Don't move.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try to answer it exactly with the law in hand. The bill reads as follows: "Article 8.0.1. Notification by 1 April at the latest. 1. No later than 1 April preceding a year of study, the person wishing to register as a participant for a vocational training starting at the start of that year shall notify the institution concerned. Upon notification, the person concerned may change his or her notification. (...) 3. This Article shall not apply to: a. a participant who applies to a vocational training other than that in which he was originally registered but can demonstrate that the notification is the result of an termination of the registration under Article 8.1.7a at a time when he could not register by 1 April prior to the year of study for which he wishes to register; and b. participants in an experiment on continuous learning lines vmbo-mbo (...)." Article 8.1.7a refers to the binding study opinion. In concrete terms, the passage I have quoted means that a student who has received a binding study advice should still be admitted to the training of his or her choice. There may be a problem here, namely if such training had a capacity problem, for example because of practicalities or laboratories. In this case, the training can already be full and a problem arises. This means that a student must be admitted to another education of that institution or other institution. However, the combined amendments tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Grashoff may create a problem for this small group. Mr Van Meenen has a point to make. Would you like to change this? That's a choice being made. Mr Grashoff asked for the binding study opinion to be given after nine months, so that was after 1 April. In order to avoid the problem mentioned above, the amendment should, for example, reduce the deadline of nine months to seven months. In this way, the binding study advice will follow from 1 March... we will count from August or September... so that the student has one month to participate in the regular procedure. In theory, the problem could also be solved by Mr Van Meenen's amendment, which postponed the date of registration from 1 April to 1 May. However, I am not in favour of this. I'll explain that to you in the near future. I have already advised against that amendment before the recess, because I do not think that this is really good from the students' perspective. Theoretically these are the options, but, once again, they only apply to students who have received binding study advice and are confronted with a second training of their choice where there is a capacity problem; these options do not apply to all other cases. I therefore assume that if this occurs, it will be an extremely small group. In such a case, a school together with a student can look at another course of study of the student's choice, which fits his or her ambitions, motivation and abilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr Van Meenen, you seem to have made a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u162	It's clear. The student holds the right of admission, even after a binding study advice after 1 April, but gets into trouble in studies with a numerus fixus. The practice in higher education now shows that the number of courses with numerus fixus has exploded in recent years. Mr President, I promise you that this is my last question: how is the Minister going to ensure that it is also very limited here? To be honest, I foresee that if we do nothing, the number of courses with a numerus fixus, due to the right of admission, will increase enormously, because then the right to select will arise. Does the Minister share that fear and, if so or no, what will she do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u163	No. The documents say that I expect that to be around 30 training courses. An institution cannot simply determine the numerus fixus itself and by naming a capacity problem select students. We are also discussing this in higher education. We have limited the scope for that limitation. To be honest, I'm not so afraid of that. I repeat why I am really not in favour of shifting the date of registration from 1 April to 1 May. We already have experience that many regions use the registration date of 1 April for the MBO. That's good. This means that a vo-school will have plenty of time for the exams to accompany a student who did not register on 1 April in his choice of study. Institutions will have sufficient time for careful intake by 1 April. Institutions and schools therefore have sufficient time to prepare for this new group of students. I would also add that after the summer holidays, MBO generally starts earlier than higher education. I also know that the MBO Council has a stronger preference before 1 April. The MBO Council and I do not agree on all the fundamental points, but I do think that I should take into account the implementation arguments it mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u164	Mr Van Meenen, you said it was your last interruption. Then this will be the very last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u165	That remark related to the previous point. This interruption concerns my own amendment, namely the shift from the date of registration to 1 May. Does the Minister agree with me that it is precisely because of the Duisenberg amendment that there are legal consequences, other than those provided for in the law, that the date of 1 April is to be passed? This will benefit students that the registration date is as late as possible. The minister just said: if students have not applied on 1 April, then the school can continue to accompany them. Yes, but they have now lost the right of admission under the Duisenberg amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u166	They can still be accepted with Mr Duisenberg's amendment. I repeat what Mr Bishop said: it is about finding a balance. We need to look not only at the moment when the student signs up, but also at where the student comes from, at the transition from secondary education, often from VMBO schools to MBO, and at the practice that already exists. If there is an explicit preference there before 1 April, and things are going well in the regions, then it is not for me to change that. We must do everything we can to encourage students to register before 1 April; in higher education, moreover, we can see that this has gone well at a fairly rapid pace. But anyone who signs up after 1 April can still be admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u167	In higher education, however, it is not true that if you sign up after 1 May, you will lose your right to admission. You don't lose your right to admission if you sign up after May 1st. That will happen with the Duisenberg amendment. You're gonna lose your right to admission. That doesn't mean you're not going to be admitted, but you're no longer entitled to it. That's quite a consequence. I believe that the student's interest must be the greatest, and not the importance of the schools, which find it difficult to organise it from 1 May. So it really is a completely different situation from the current practice, because in that practice there is no right of admission that you can or cannot lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u168	This is ultimately about finding a balance; that is what others have already said. I believe that the fundamental point that students have the right to admission is of the utmost importance. Mr Duisenberg is tabling an amendment in which this is a bit of a shift. I'm finding that might be an extra incentive on the one hand to register early. That can also be good, because a study choice intake is of the utmost importance to start your studies properly. On the other hand, it may have a disadvantage for those who do so later, but that is in the MBO than the group that is no longer subject to qualification. I think that is reasonable, even from the point of view of feasibility, which schools have to take into account. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis asked about the bbl-spots. Let me point out that I do not agree that this bill causes problems for students who do the vocational guidance learning path. There are people who think, and I read that in the letter from VNO-NCW, that schools should publish the number of bbl-spots before 1 February, but that is not necessary. Let me be clear about that. A reduction in the number of places is necessary only if the educational capacity of the school gives rise to this, such as practicals, laboratories, etc., or if the labour market perspective gives rise to this. This will not be an issue for bbl-training because a bbl'er only attends school one day a week and works four days a week. In principle, therefore, he always has a labour market perspective, because after the course the student almost always has a job. If you have an internship for those four days, by definition, you also have a job perspective. That also means that when a bbl'er signs up who doesn't have an internship yet, he doesn't necessarily have to have one before 1 April. Just as is happening now, even after the entry into force of this bill, a bbl'er can still look for an internship after registration or registration. I therefore believe that the concerns are based on a misunderstanding, namely the misunderstanding that one should clearly indicate on 1 April exactly how many bbl-spots one has to deliver. So you don't have to. So there will be rarely or never problems with bbl'ers. If there are problems with an internship site, they can be solved after 1 April. Mr Grashoff's amendment seeks to give more guarantees in connection with a binding study opinion. I think it is of the utmost importance that the procedure concerning the binding study opinion should be followed carefully and that adequate safeguards should also be provided. I quote Mr Bishop once again: there must be a balance between the rights of students and of schools. There was the example of a student who really doesn't do anything and isn't interested. That can indeed happen and then a school should be able to say: I think that this training does not ultimately suit you. Then it is the responsibility of the school to see if there is an education that allows the student to be motivated. After all, it is up to them to accompany the students to another programme. I can support the spirit of Mr Grashoff's amendment. I also think it is important that students' rights are well protected if they are given binding study advice. Therefore, in my letter received by the Chamber during the recess, I also indicated where a student can appeal and how a student should be informed. I also wrote that a binding study advice cannot be given simply because there is one teacher who thinks: I find this student too difficult in the classroom. Here's what I'm gonna say. A negative binding study advice is in fact only an advice for students who receive the communication: you cannot continue with this programme. I think it was Mr Rog who said it would be so bureaucratic, because everyone should be given an opinion. Most students, however, receive positive advice. That can be given orally. That's what happens in a slb call. I can't imagine that there would be schools that wouldn't talk to their students on a regular basis about the progress of studies, about the satisfaction and about the study. If everything goes well, you'll be ready in five minutes and nothing needs to be put on paper. I would also like to add that the experience of the binding study advice in entrance training is positive at the moment and institutions are carefully shaping this procedure. By setting a limited time limit within which the binding study opinion may be given, which is proposed, inter alia, in Mr Grashoff's amendment, the area of the institutions, the schools, is restricted. I know schools aren't happy about it. I think it is important to give this to the Chamber. We have to weigh that, because it requires a lot of schools. But it's possible. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I say that in the knowledge that it requires more of schools. I have just gone into detail about the combination of the Grashoff amendment with Mr Duisenberg's amendment and Mr Van Meenen's amendment, all of which touch on the date of 1 April. But, once again, it can be as the amendment has now been set up. I have a few other questions. Ms Siderius asked if it would be reported to the municipality if students had received a binding study advice. Yes. At first, the school's the move. It must be able to offer an alternative. So if a student gets a binding study advice, the school has to look at another education. However, the bill also refers to a code of conduct. Sorry about English, Mr. Chairman. I will include the need for municipalities to be involved. This is particularly important for students who can get to work better or for students for whom another course fits better. Eventually, any student who fails to obtain a final start-up qualification will be reported to the RMC office of the municipality. But this is only happening in the final situation in which the school, which bears the primary responsibility, concludes that even after a binding study advice, the search for an alternative at school or at another school cannot succeed in any way. Then it means that there must be a warm transfer so that a student does not lose in the bureaucracy and there is always someone who takes care of him or her. The motion-Siderius in part No. 21 concerns the refusal of the number of students. I am asked to register how many students are refused and what is the reason for refusal. The aim of this legislation is precisely to prevent students from being refused. The assignment to schools to inventory why students are refused is contrary to this law. The schools must no longer refuse. Apart from that, I would also like to discourage the motion, because I believe that the importance of keeping this up to date does not outweigh the administrative burden that this will entail, because we want to prevent students from being refused. I am more positive about keeping up with the binding study opinion, as requested in the Van Meenen motion in part No. 22. Maybe that'll help Mrs Siderius too. With this law, you can't really refuse. The only thing that can be done, in particular situations, is to give students binding study advice. I'd like to register that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u169	The bill states that students who are refused access to an MBO institution must receive a rejection letter at home. How much trouble does it take an MBO setting to put a turf in a box? You know exactly how many there are and also what category of rejection the student falls into. I do not think that is the administrative burden. In my view, it is also a good tool to see whether the Minister's law is successful. If it goes to zero for hundreds of, in some cases unjustified, rejections, then the Minister has a numerical basis on paper that the law is successful. If it is not so successful, then perhaps we can intervene in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u170	Here it comes down to proportionality. There's also a request to monitor. I'm willing to do that. I'll get right on that. However, I think this is the wrong signal. I'm making a bill saying that students have a right of admission, that they can't be denied anymore. Then I think it is a wrong signal to ask schools at the same time if they would please keep track of why students are being refused. Then schools have a point when they say that they have to keep it all administratively. That does not seem to me to be the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u171	If we register it, we will also lose the discussion that is now taking place in the field. Among other things, the JOB says that there are several hundred cases, while for example the MBO Council says that there are only a few per year. There are great differences in perception. Nobody knows because it's just never written down anywhere. It seems to me appropriate to register that. I don't understand the administrative burden, because if you're ticking a letter, you can put a turf somewhere in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u172	We base this law on the data we have. One says it's a few dozen cases, others say it's 200 cases. The research we've done is about numbers around 200. I assume that's the tip of the iceberg, because those are the students who, although they didn't have any way of resisting rejection, have turned it into a matter. I refer once again to the study which shows that selection is to a greater or lesser extent taking place in half of the institutions. I want to put an end to that, and I also want to send that signal unequivocally to schools. That means I'm deceiving the motion. In the Van Meenen motion on part No. 22 The Government is invited to report to the Chamber within two years of the entry into force of the Act, in cooperation with the JOB, on the number of negative binding study opinions issued. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'm willing to perform a monitor after two years. I am willing to do this together with the JOB, but also with the MBO schools. I would add that I do not want a full evaluation, but I do not think Mr Van Meenen means that either. I can assure him that, if his motion is adopted, we will inform the Chamber after two years of how often a binding study opinion has been given and under what circumstances. Mr Mohandis asked how I am going to ensure that the field works towards the proper implementation of the law. I have been in close contact with the parties involved in the preparation of this law. As he has undoubtedly noticed, its impact has also led to the necessary discussion. By the way, there was also a lot of support in the discussions I had, not only with MBO schools but also with VMBO schools, municipalities and so on. We all agree that municipalities, MBO schools, vo-schools and employers need each other to make good agreements, especially for young people who fail or are threatened with failure. I want to record that in that code or conduct. For example, we are dealing with agreements on the supervision of young people who leave their training or young people for whom education is not the most appropriate place for the time being. We will also agree on the implementation of the study choice advice and the binding study advice. I am also happy to include its implementation in the evaluation of the legislative proposal. I'll include the JOB in that, too. If that is due to signals, then I will also take those signals with me at the monitor in two years' time that I have just promised. Then I will extend the monitor at the request of Mr Mohandis. This includes not only the binding study advice, but also all the other signals we get. Without it being a whole evaluation, I say, because it just can't be after two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u173	I thank the Minister for this comprehensive answer. I have another question on the motion which Mr Van Meenen has read out and which has now received a different interpretation from the Minister. That motion is a little broader, which I support. Is that what took over the motion? Then we won't have to vote on it on Tuesday. Let me just say that for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u174	At the Van Meenen motion in part No. 22 I have noted: Judgment Room. If a member tries to provoke the minister to take over the motion, we're going to listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u175	I said first, judge Room. I then replied to Mr Mohandis' questions and said that they were a welcome addition to what was in the motion. That is why I gave the motion a different interpretation. If there is no objection in the Chamber, I could accept the motion, including the answers to Mr Mohandis' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u176	Then I'm gonna have to ask if anyone in the Chamber has any objection to taking over the motion. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add that, including the Minister's turn in this respect. It concerns the motion in part No. 22, by Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u177	There are so many aspects to it that I do not just want to say here that I agree to take over. I'd like to take a closer look at the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u178	Right. Then the motion will just be put to the vote. It happens more often that there is a need for internal reflection or whatever. The motion will just be put to the vote. The Minister has delivered her opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u179	Finally, I come to Mr Bishop's question. I've already said something about that. How do we prevent us from entering into new commitments? I have also looked at how we can design it in such a way as to minimise the additional burden on schools. I also hope that the investigation and the letter that Actal has written will reassure Mr Bishop. I would also like to say that I will ensure that regular monitoring is carried out as far as possible through the inspection. It's just gonna be part of the inspection's oversight. This is not an additional burden on institutions. Monitoring can mean that in a sense, so perhaps that still needs to be taken into account. I myself think it would be no harm to draw up a mid-term review after two years, given Mr Van Meenen's question and the debate that has arisen in the field about this law. We can then see which signals are there. I think it is reasonable in itself to ask a question at that time at the schools. In my view, the administrative burden remains very limited in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u180	Did that bring you to the end of your reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u181	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u182	Suddenly I see movements in the room. I give the floor to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u183	I had asked the Minister a question because I am concerned that this law may have negative consequences for early school leaving. The Minister did not explicitly address this issue, but perhaps she is prepared to include this aspect in her interpretation of the Van Meenen motion on item No. 22 and in the evaluation and monitoring? That is my suggestion to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u184	I would point out that I have already gone into that in detail. I have also tried to serve Mr Van Meenen, but he did not think it was an answer to his question. As far as I am concerned, the question about school leavers is no other than the question about re-launchers or those who register later. I have just told Mr Van Meenen that I think it is the other way round and that this will reduce the number of early school leavers. After all, we know that 10% or 20% of today's early school leavers emerge from the transition between VMBO and MBO. This bill contributes to the direct transfer of students from secondary education, from VMBO, to MBO with guidance. It is expected that this will contribute to my objective of further reducing the rate of early school leavers to 20,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u185	A final question from Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u186	That is the Minister's expectation, but the loan system has not been met either. Does she want that involved in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u187	I said I'd do an evaluation after four years. We'll involve everything, including this. I told Mr Van Meenen and Mr Mohandis that, in view of the discussion on the binding study opinion, I was prepared to make a snapshot of this issue in two years' time and to include other signals. If there are signs that this has effects on early school leaving, I will involve it in the monitor in two years' time. However, I would like to limit that monitor a little bit, because the more I include it, the more administrative burdens will be added, including for schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u188	I very much appreciate the Minister's efforts to minimise the administrative burden on schools associated with this operation. I think the schools will thank her for that. But I was referring to something else when I asked about the inspection. How can we prevent, for example, the number of binding study opinions issued from becoming one of the parameters on which a school will soon be assessed by the inspection? As long as we stick to the ideology of profit-oriented work, I am not entirely reassured. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u189	I admit that it can never be the intention that an inspection should be conducted on the number of binding study opinions issued. However, it is important to check whether a school regulates admission properly. I think it is of the utmost importance that the inspection should look into whether there is a good career orientation...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u190	I would ask Members to listen to the Minister or else consult in the hallway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u191	and is a career guidance counseling. That's what the inspection needs to look into. This outcome will show whether or not binding study opinions are given. But it can never be the case that a school is taken care of, because that would mean that a school would be inclined not to hire students who may have a bit more difficulty. That would have the effect of going diametrically against the intention I have with this bill. Luckily, I can agree to that with the inspection. I'll give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u192	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u193	Fantastic! I think it is right to include this aspect in the evaluation in life and well-being in two years' time and to look at how this aspect has been worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u194	Again, with the remark that there will be no evaluation in two years' time. The law says the evaluation is in four years' time. In two years, there will be a monitor, a snapshot. In view of the discussion about this law, we will see if the law does what we all want the law to do. If this is a signal, we'll take it with us. But I'm not going to assume that, because I'm also the one who's in charge of the inspection. So I can give the inspection that I have promised to make sure that schools are never charged on the issue of whether or not to issue a binding study advice. Like Members, I am well aware that this can provoke very bad behavioral effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u195	My colleague Lucas was the spokesperson during the first term of the discussion of this bill. I understand that at the time there was also talk of situations where there is gross abuse of registration in the MBO, either purely or almost exclusively in order to receive study funding and an IPR card. I understand that there was talk at that time about an investigation into such gross abuse and what you could do against that abuse. The Minister has agreed to do that investigation. When can that investigation be expected, including the government's assessment and possible measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u196	That is what we have been talking about. In fact, I immediately indicated that it is unacceptable, as far as I am concerned, for people to register in this way. I also said that schools have a responsibility to register immediately, because they have to register failure as part of school leaving. They have to pass that on to DUO and then the study funding can be stopped. There is now a question of how often, despite all the measures we have taken, this happens. That inquiry with a cabinet response will be sent to the Chamber at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u197	This brings us to the end of the reply by the Minister, for which I thank her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-8.u198	I propose that we vote on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions for resolutions next Tuesday. I heard Mrs Siderius say something about article voting. If she so wishes, I would ask her to let the Registry know in good time.
