ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome Mrs Tellegen in section K. She is supported in the defence of the initiative proposal by Florentijn Otten and Jasper Boon, both co-worker at the VVD Group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal treatment is planned at a later date in consultation with the initiator. I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Ronnes of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating the initiators and their staff on the proposal before us. That does not mean that we are entirely satisfied, but I shall return to that in my contribution. Housing nuisance is a serious social problem. This must be combated effectively. The CDA agrees with the initiators that benevolent people do not needlessly have to suffer from indecent, miserable, polluting and generally overburdening behavior of others. That is why we will certainly support this law. In the written round, however, the CDA Group questioned the way in which this proposal contributes to the fight against housing nuisance. The CDA Group wants to ensure that the mayor is used as a police officer for all kinds of house, garden and kitchen items. For this reason, the CDA Group has already asked the initiators to amend the proposal with regard to the objectivity of the complaint, the continuing nature of the nuisance and the degree of seriousness of the disturbance. On all these points, the initiators did not want to amend the proposal. The argument was: customization; the mayor must be able to deliver customization. This means that the notification of a single resident can also lead to the use of the proposed powers. If any form of nuisance allows the citizen to have the mayor deal with the use of administrative coercion, the administrative burden will in our view be greatly increased. The question is what should weigh more: to offer complete freedom and tailor-made work or to prevent the mayor sometimes being used too imprecisely because of the unjust whims of a resident. The CDA Group understands the choice for the first and agrees with it, for the moment, but warns against the consequences of the second. By the way, the legal text speaks about complaints from local residents. Do the initiators agree with the CDA that it should therefore be about complaints from at least more than one resident? The CDA said before that it is indeed very annoying when dogs bark and there is a noisy drink nearby when you want to go to sleep yourself. The question is whether such examples actually justify the intervention by the mayor. Does this not affect the personal responsibility of citizens in their private domain? We would like to hear how the initiators view this. And what role does the Minister see for himself to prevent the mentioned side effect of excessive use of a mayor? Then I'll get to the capacity. With regard to administrative burdens and the necessary enforcement capacity, the Council of State states that it is not sufficiently clear whether and to what extent the proposed optional power will actually be used. The initiators did not, logically, comment on this during the reply. It would be nice for the Minister to shed his light on this. How does he look at the criticism of the Council of State in the same way as the VNG, the NGB (Dutch Society of Mayors) and Aedes at the same point? And how does this relate to the use of boas, specifically in the event of housing problems? It is interesting to note that Minister Van der Steur, a former Member of Parliament, put forward a proposal on the promotion of mediation in administrative law. How does that relate to the current bill? How does the Minister see the relationship between the Act on the Promotion of Mediation in Administrative Law, which has been adopted by the Government, in relation to the administrative constraint granted to the Mayor in the present proposal? Are these cases, on the one hand, an increase in mediation from the municipality and, on the other hand, the creation of the possibility for citizens to use the mayor to settle neighborly disputes with compulsion, not conflicting with each other? When can the Chamber expect this bill? It's been quiet for some time now. I'm coming to a missed opportunity. This concerns the business premises. Aedes has stated that on the ground floor a company is sometimes located while above and next to that company houses have been realized, where nuisance can be experienced. The bill doesn't look like this. Isn't that a missed opportunity? The initiator states that this recommendation of Aedes is not taken on board because there are already sufficient possibilities to address nuisances from business premises. Can the Minister respond to this and tell us what possibilities these are? If those possibilities already exist, what is Aedes' argument to mention this point? Next, a comment on the type of nuisance. What about the applicability of the jurisdiction in the non-maintaining of gardens? Read: complete wildlife and jungle formation. Could this also perhaps be a form of nuisance that one can physically perceive? In practice, the nuisance in rental homes is dealt with more effectively because corporations are tighter and have opportunities for it. The question to the applicant is therefore how it sees the difference between rentals rented by a corporation and housing in the purchasing sector. Does she see any differences in the legislative proposal that she has submitted? For your information, I note that we have tabled an amendment together with D66, which speaks for itself. The content of the amendment is in line with what I have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u3	It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 13, in place of Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No 13, to replace Amendment No
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me express my sincere and sincere congratulations on behalf of my group to the initiator of this proposal. This is a valuable contribution to the legislative task of this body. "Small suffering." This is how innocently we often talk about nuisances and nuisances that citizens can do to each other. Dumping garbage in the neighbor's garden, or on his sidewalk, in front of his house or his fence. Stinking nuisance of 18 cats in a terraced house. Shine-throwers aimed at someone's living room. Unfortunately, the multicolourity of housing nuisance shows that man is inclined to all kinds of evil, as we practice in the SGP tradition and as experience in general teaches us. Such situations can seriously spoil the joy of life and living of its victims and drive people to despair. Politicians cannot go around this so-called small suffering with a great bow. Nor can we simply refer to the extensive legal possibilities with which you can fight your neighbor instead of the baseball bat. For many citizens there are high bumps to take before they go to court. The initiator wants to support the approach to a practical problem as a housing nuisance by means of a legislative proposal. The SGP Group congratulates her on this. It is not a subject that is far from the citizens today. The SGP supports the initiative, but still has some critical and fundamental questions in its elaboration, as it will undoubtedly have expected. In fights, the truth is often in the middle. Besides nuisanceing citizens, there is also a type of citizen with very long toes. It is not tempting for a municipality to be involved. The experience of serious nuisance also turns out to be very subjective. This requires a careful and at the same time cautious approach. I would like to make a number of points to the applicant. Firstly, the SGP is keen to hear from the initiator how the responsibility of municipalities will look concrete. The draft law speaks kindly of "power," but the Council of State rightly states that municipalities have a duty of principle to enforce. That's a little different. When citizens make a request to solve problems, the municipality will have to investigate. There must be concrete facts and circumstances on the table. How far does the duty of proof go, exactly? And in addition: is this workable for municipalities? The SGP wonders why a further explanation and objectification, for example a link with the liveability of the neighborhood, has been omitted. We also support Mr Ronnes' amendment to the demand for repeated nuisances. The second point concerns physical space. With the letter of amendment, the initiator no longer confines herself to the yard, but also involves conduct in the vicinity of a house or yard. That makes sense, but it also raises new questions. The sidewalk next to the yard is just part of the public space, isn't it? Why should the bill be extended for this purpose? The risk appears to arise that two types of enforcement regimes will run side by side or even mixed up. The same applies to problems with, for example, overhanging fences. Should it be addressed on the basis of this bill, or on the basis of the tools that can be used for livingability since 1 January 2015? Does the initiator actually think that intervention is also possible when, for example, schoolchildren, who live a few blocks away, have to walk past a dog growling on the yard every time? Who is going to take action? Or do we not need to take action? The third point concerns the differences between municipalities. This legislative proposal can lead to large differences between municipalities. For example, the municipal council of the municipality of A may provide that in the event of a housing nuisance the municipality is strictly maintained, whereas this is not the case in the neighbouring municipality of B. In the latter municipality, citizens will still have to initiate proceedings with the civil courts, while in the municipality of A they could simply go to the town hall. The SGP does not in itself see any problem with the differences that may arise between municipalities. We have deliberately increased that space over the last few years. However, this legislative proposal is not about providing services, but about fundamental breaches of the private sphere. Is it desirable that we leave such fundamental powers to the city council? Why is it obvious that the troublemakers, as well as those who suffer from nuisance, are worse off in one municipality than in the other? The SGP would like to receive further evidence as to why local differences, given the fundamental interests, would be a charm. Now we are quickly impressed by all kinds of charms, but at this point a little less. The fourth point concerns the specific nature of the proposed power. The initiator indicates that she has applied for powers such as the placing of cameras and the designation of safety-risk areas. However, we believe that there are three fundamental differences. Such powers are primarily limited to problems and risks to public order or security and stop at the private domain. That is a substantial difference from the comparison quoted. In addition, these powers focus on specific places or areas. Thirdly, the existing powers can be used for a limited period of time. However, the proposed power to intervene in the event of a residential disturbance can be granted for an indefinite period for the entire municipality. We would be very grateful if the applicant could elaborate on these three differences. The SGP would like to be given an explanation of the possibility of limiting the powers of the legislative proposal to certain areas in municipalities. For example, does the initiator think it is legitimate that villas should be excluded from administrative enforcement because these residents could go to court? The SGP considers the claim that housing nuisance does not occur in all municipalities to be very optimistic. The practice shows that housing nuisance can occur in all kinds of areas. In this context, the SGP considers it more logical to give the mayor direct authority, as is the case with other problems. My question to the initiator is to respond to this. Finally, I would like to touch on some of the liberal principles. It is not every week that legislative proposals are provided with a clear philosophical basis. Today it does, and that's why it's a party. That's valuable. It's an invitation to pick up that glove. The initiator clearly admits that she is a supporter of the liberal principle of damage. Now that doesn't really surprise you, but it's clear to see something so clearly expressed. In her view, this means that citizens' freedom should only be restricted if they harm the freedom of others. That's a rather negative view of freedom. Freedom, in the SGP's view, is not meant to define your own territory as much as possible and to be able to do your own sense, but is meant to be the right to do good for society. It is therefore a positive right with a collective character rather than a right that is exclusively individually oriented. For example, I would like to come to the paradox of an irony, one might say that housing nuisance is really being tackled at the root only when the liberal principle of damage goes on the shovel. I will not go into further detail, but I challenge the applicant to go into that more closely, should she feel the need to do so. In practical terms, we can in any case agree on the need for restrictive measures in the event of housing problems. For the SGP too, the question is not so much whether freedom should be restricted in the event of nuisance, but whether we should do so. In this proposal, the liberal principle of a small government seems to be somewhat underexposed to the second liberal principle. How do we prevent citizens too easily from putting their problems on the board of the municipality and ultimately on the board of taxpayers, especially if they know that the municipality must maintain? For example, in the case of rentals, many problems can be solved with a behavioral instruction for the tenant. Does the initiator agree that such resources should be used before the municipality has to take action? According to the SGP, part of the damage principle is that the costs should reach those concerned as much as possible. How does the initiator apply this principle? I'd like to leave it at that. Once again, I would like to thank my colleague. I look forward to the answer and the response to the points raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u5	It won't be on the philosophical bat in the hound's loft.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. You'll only live in a neighborhood where nuisance and crime are the order of the day, where you have to check every morning if the tires are still under your car, where you don't just let your daughter go down the street, where your wife leaves it all out of her head to walk the dog out at night, or where your neighbor puts his music to ten every day and doesn't care about you and your family. Every time we discuss this kind of problem, we run into lawyers and scientists who are concerned about privacy, individual freedom and other fundamental rights, and against the hard core of asos, who do not care about others, people who cause nuisance and damage and make vulnerable neighbourhoods even more vulnerable. After all the experience with power districts, beautiful neighbourhoods and birdaarwijken we know what works. The fact is that "clean," "whole" and "safe" are the best guarantees for a nice neighborhood. So that's what the VVD is working hard on. If we have to choose between your fundamental right to live quietly and all kinds of fundamental rights of people who make a pot of it and who push it up for others, then the choice has been made quickly. Your house must be the safest and best place on the planet. You should be able to have a chat with your neighbors, hang over the hedge or sit on your balcony with a glass of wine. Local administrators have been given much more powers in recent years to tackle problem neighbourhoods. We've changed a whole line of laws. For example, drivers can force owners to maintain. They can make income demands on tenants. They can check backgrounds. In extreme cases, they can evict troublemakers from their homes. All this has been done in the knowledge that problem areas benefit from enforcement, maintenance and clean environments. That's great. However, all these measures, the Rotterdam Act first, which we discussed before the summer, are serious interventions: you have to expel people in advance or throw them out once they live in your neighborhood. It's all or nothing. In practice, the mayor thus has the choice between a warning, which in practice does little, and the whole procedure of the Rotterdam Act. There is therefore a need for a more sophisticated instrument, less radical than removal, but to maintain it well: a behavioral indication. This bill regulates such a behavioral instruction, with all the guarantees that you expect in a rule of law. What we are going to do now is to understand for everyone in the Netherlands. If there's any real trouble, the mayor could give us a lead. The muzzling of a dog, a ban on loud music, a restraining order after 11:00 in the evening: that all fits perfectly with the mayor's traditional responsibilities. In order to ensure due diligence, the proposal provides for a three-stage missile: firstly, a city council regulation, secondly, consultation or mediation by the mayor and a concrete designation if that does not help, and thirdly, the application of administrative coercion by the mayor if the designation is not followed. With this we have a wonderful addition to the instruments. From a liberal perspective, it is an easy balance. The privacy isn't at stake. Freedom of establishment is not restricted. People are addressed to their concrete behavior, not in their background or past. The behavioral indication is not limited to the areas that we have designated for the Rotterdam Act. It's also about merchant houses. It is also about Hillegersberg, about Amsterdam-Zuid or Wassenaar, to name but a few, because people live there too. That's all very nice. The VVD has a number of questions after the written round. Firstly, the legislative proposal has a wide scope, but how do we prevent the new Article 151d from being used too widely? Let me give you a concrete example. A café owner who lives above his own business could be confronted with nuisance. However, there is a very different regime for catering companies. It would be undesirable to use the article for this purpose. Is that preventable? In addition, cracking and other forms of housing fraud continue to be a problem in society. With the Wet creaking and emptying, thanks to the VVD, we have criminalized cracking, but there remain all kinds of practical problems. Can this behavioral instruction also be used to keep squatters in line? Then I have the next question. The mayor may give a clue, but what is the obvious window where I can report as a resident or landlord? Do I have to write to people first, do I have to take far-reaching measures or do I have to report to the police or the municipality? Where am I supposed to do that? Finally, Airbnb and internet rental in general cause a huge amount of nuisance. From Amsterdam we get compelling requests for more regulation, so that the municipality gets hold of Airbnb. My colleagues will confirm this. The VVD's a little mixed up in that. Under no circumstances do we want new developments and new entrants to the economy. But the nuisance of Airbnb in Amsterdam is unmistakable, especially when small rentals are illegally rented out months in a row. Can we use this law to deal with this nuisance? Then who are we gonna take care of? Do we then catch that drunken Brit sitting there or the regular resident who is probably on the Spanish coast or Veluwe at the same time? This initiative proposal has a long run ahead. There's now a bill that mayors are jumping over and thousands of good-willed Dutch people are getting something out of it. I would like to express my great appreciation to the author and her supporters, who have been working on this for years. We all know that no one can promise a country without crime and nuisance, but we can strive for it and the VVD does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. Drunken British who, through Airbnb, do not see a residential area and the difference between a home and a hostel and people who get sick of the nuisance caused by their psychologically disturbed neighbor are examples of the serious nuisance you can have from each other. Then there are the endless examples of antisocial neighbors that keep the neighborhood awake all night with music or passing guests with stench or barking dogs. This also illustrates why it is so badly needed that there are opportunities to tackle housing nuisance, in addition to the existing instruments that are often too light or too heavy, so that you do not have to sue each other, but can tackle a problem as a neighborhood, supported by the government. That is why this initiative law of the VVD is there, I suspect. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the initiators, first Mr Dijkhoff, now Mrs Tellegen and Mr Van Veen, for the work they have in this area. Minister Blok and I have jointly tabled an initiative proposal and know how much work that entails. As has been said, this bill seems to be a practical solution to a wide-ranging problem. I am therefore looking at it with a sympathetic eye, but that is without prejudice to the fact that I still have the necessary questions. Hopefully the initiators will convince me with good answers. We want to keep conflicts small, but where good consultation is possible through mediation or arbitration, you name it, we have to avoid legalisation. That's what my party thinks, that's what the VVD thinks, and that's what I see, the whole Chamber. How is it prevented from being taken too quickly, by the burden, by administrative constraint, while it could have sufficed with a well-founded word from the local director or district agent? This legislative proposal also entails the risk of the government interfering in conflicts that do not concern it. The Council of State also notes that there is sometimes a problem of public order, but it is primarily a conflict between citizens. Will it remain with real neighborly quarrels, so that mediation is first sought a solution, as in the pilot neighborly judge? Or is it okay with the initiators if they also take the burden under administrative control? To what extent is it justified, then, that public funds should be spent on them? In other words, where, according to the initiators, is the border between self-solving conflicts and nuisance where it is justified to call in the mayor's help? I come to the imposition of the burden and enforcement. I'm trying to see how they're gonna happen. For example, someone often has music on late at night. The neighborhood complains and after hearing and after careful preparation a burden is imposed under control: no music after 10 p.m. What data does the governing body use for this purpose? Are police records used for this? Isn't it risky to do that? How do old or incorrect data take this into account? At 0300 hours, in the middle of the night, the neighborhood wakes up again from loud music. I don't want to hear Justin Bieber in the middle of the night either, so I understand that sometimes this can be very annoying. What happens then? Who is the person designated to exercise the administrative constraint? A civil servant? The police? And if you don't get through it quickly and wait for minutes at 0900-8844, what happens? And how is the next day prevented from buying new equipment, after which the party starts again that same evening? I ask this because the worrying reports about police capacity are legion and I do not see the average official invading a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Bishop was also a bit on state law. I hear Mrs Koşer Kaya saying several things. She's asking if housing nuisance is actually a government job, where you have to take tax money. My question is then: how does it see the classic public service in this area, security? At the same time, I hear her say that there is far too little police and that the nuisance is so bad. So I'm just trying to see where she's going with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u9	I thought I had a nice story, but apparently it is not quite clear with Mr Van der Linde. So I'd be happy to explain it again. It's about the border. When is the simple nuisance, to which you do not want to spend public money but which can be solved among yourselves or by arbitration, mediation or a neighbour who wants to intervene and help? And when are you going to use the heavier means put forward in this initiative proposal? I would like to have an answer to that, because that is not entirely clear to me and I would not like to see Mr Van der Linde and Mr Van der Linde either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u10	Then I'd like to know where D66 lays that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u11	I didn't file the Initiative Act. Like the Council of State, I question it. That is why I am asking this question. I would particularly like to know this from the proposers. I believe that if it only happens once or if there are other ways to solve it, you should try to do so. If you don't, you're gonna go to government intervention very quickly, which costs money. The VVD shouldn't want that either. I come to human rights. In its opinion, the Council of State devotes a full page to the possibility that this VVD proposal infringes respect for privacy and the right to undisturbed property. I too have concerns on this point. The victim of the nuisance, of course, has his rights, but that also applies to the causer. The Netherlands is a rule of law and it is our job to ask questions about it. The justification for the administrative burden will therefore have to comply with high standards. How do you get in the way of serious interference? When does this amount to an infringement of fundamental rights in the field of privacy and property? I believe that it is necessary not only in the explanatory statement but also in the legal text itself that the obstacle is recurrent. A single incident can't be enough to impose an administrative burden. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mr Ronnes (34007, No. 12). I assume that further specification will be there soon. Larger municipalities must have sufficient legal knowledge and expertise to stay within the lines of the ECHR. In smaller municipalities there is often less capacity for this. If you don't handle that properly, you run risks, as do guaranteeing children's rights in decentralisation. How do you avoid these risks? I ask the initiators and the minister whether it would not be a good idea to create, together with the VNG, a point of contact where municipalities can go for coordination and guidance or for a hand-out to support. With such a window or hand-out, we are responding to the concern that the power is very indeterminate in relation to the rights it affects. In this way, we are sure that municipalities that have little to do with this problem or lack of expertise in the home can make use of other expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating the initiator on behalf of the SP Group. It is, of course, a compliment if you are a member of the Chamber of Commerce and are allowed to defend a bill. Housing nuisance can be profound and persistent. It could ruin the peace, the happiness of life, or the safety of neighborhood residents. It is therefore good to consider what the government can or even needs to do to address nuisance. Housing corporations have a lot of experience in dealing with nuisances. Often problems can be smothered in the bud if troublesome behaviour is made negotiable at an early stage. That is why, according to the SP Group, it is so important that corporations keep the space to invest in the quality of life in the neighbourhood, for example by a neighbourhood coach or through mediation. Does the initiator agree with me? Does she also think it is important that housing corporations have sufficient resources for this? Does she think that there are sufficient resources at the moment? If conversations, letters or warnings do not have the desired effect, more is needed. I agree with the initiator. As far as we are concerned, moving to a termination of the lease or a removal should really be seen as the very last option. Can the initiator confirm that? A temporary removal is also far-reaching, especially if there are children involved. It is therefore a good thing that the initiator has set a deadline for this. A temporary ban can help to prevent a definitive home ban. The question is, however, where does the perpetrator and any children stay in the meantime? How are the unsub and the kids escorted? I'd like to get a reaction to this. There is a helping hand for municipalities to prevent and tackle nuisances. If the initiative proposal is adopted, I think it is important for municipalities to be reminded of the new powers of the mayor, such as an indication of behaviour. It must be clear that a temporary ban or removal is and remains the very last option. In this context, I have a question for our adviser, the Minister. How's he gonna make sure this is taken care of? If a mayor's new powers are deployed, how long will the procedure take? What is the practice of registration if nuisance is detected? As with the so-called "terrorism approach" from Amsterdam, the victim of the nuisance must be protected. In what way is there support and guidance for the victim to use a behavioral instruction, especially since a procedure can last up to eight weeks? In those two months, a lot can happen. In what way is the perpetrator supervised or monitored during and after the procedure? The nuisance does not only have to take place in the house, but can also happen on the street. What happens then? In addition, housing corporations already do a lot. But who's gonna talk to property owners about their behavior if it gets out of hand? Does the initiator consider that there are sufficient ways to deal with nuisances in shops? If not, what's it gonna take? If there are enough possibilities, I would like to know what they are and why this bill is not being extended to the purchasing sector. It is clear that nuisance is a complicated problem. My group is inclined to look positively at this initiative proposal because more needs to be done. We believe, however, that the measures are far-reaching and will therefore continue to follow the practice. My concerns are still with the enforcement of a temporary restraining order, a muzzle duty or other behavioral instructions. My colleague Mr Kooiman referred earlier to the statement by the Minister for Security and Justice that the police should not be given any new tasks. When the mayor is given new tasks, will the police also be given new tasks, in this case enforcement? Can it be guaranteed that, despite a capacity reduction of 2,000 fte, the police can have the enforcement of behavioral instructions? The initiator also talks about the use of boas in enforcement in the event of escalation. Isn't that more of a job for the neighborhood cop? We are looking at this bill with a positive look, but we are looking forward to the answers to the questions asked. I wish the initiator success in preparing those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u13	The boa is the Special Investigation Officer. We have a rather empty gallery, but we always bear in mind that many people are watching with us. I give the floor to Mr Recourt on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u14	The PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u15	Excuse me, on behalf of the PvdA Group. I was with the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with the questions from the D66 side. I don't see Mrs. Koşer Kaya right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mrs Koşer Kaya has another obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u18	In my opinion, the bill is intended for situations where reasonableness is over, as a neighbourhood mediation no longer works. You're gonna be in trouble for a living. This is a common and often persistent problem in people's lives. It can ruin people's lives thoroughly. This has been known for many years and attempts have been made to tackle this for many years. In 2009 my colleague Attje Kuik wrote a note about it. Over the years, the legislation has also been supplemented into a whole toolbox with tools that the authorities can draw on if they want to address the problem of housing nuisance. Still, that's not enough. There are no instruments that are between the more soft and sometimes a little non-binding approach. I was just talking about that; you have to start with that and take the right one too hard. Of course, neighbors have to try to get out first. There is a need to scale up to forms of mediation through the district agent and warnings before heavier instruments such as cancellation of the lease and final removal are used. Because of the drastic consequences and the associated hooks and eyes, the final closing of a house on the basis of the Victoria law does not actually occur. The expropriation of property due to housing nuisance is also too drastic a measure and legally too difficult. Then I'm talking about the Victor Act. As the initiators say, the de-escalation model is not yet complete. My group agrees, provided, of course, that all these measures are used on a proportionate basis. Fortunately, the initiators themselves understand that their proposals are merely an addition to the existing toolbox with instruments. It's not gonna get rid of housing nuisance. As far as I am concerned, it is a useful addition. It is good that this bill will now provide for two means that can be deployed as lighter means no longer help. These two means, the behavioral instruction and the temporary ban, can help to prevent further escalation of the nuisance and further scaling up to heavier means. In addition, I think it is a strong point that the use of these resources no longer constitutes the victims who need to be protected, addressed or whatever against the nuisance, but that the troublemaker himself is being dealt with, in this case by the mayor. It is clear that the Labour Party is in favour of this law, but my group still has a number of questions to clarify how the initiator sees the functioning of the law. I am a little concerned that mayors will be given more tasks and powers to deal with housing problems, but I know that they would like to do so, because Van der Laan and Aboutaleb have asked for this. But what is the role of these other partners now? Isn't there a danger that they're just gonna sit back and look at the mayor, wondering if they're gonna take action when there's a house problem? Aedes, as we have seen, is a strong supporter of this bill, but that organisation is probably that because it puts the corporations in the lurch a bit. In short: how do we let all relevant players do their job and use their opportunities to prevent this nuisance? I would ask both the petitioner and the minister to do this. Furthermore, the initiator points out that this law does not distinguish between tenants and property owners. Legally, of course, it is, but isn't practice going to be different? For example, tenants can be evicted more easily than owners. Of course, the right to rent does not apply to buyers.................................................................................................................................................................................................. When can the stronger stick behind the door of canceling the rent be used? How does the initiator see the order between the behavioral instruction and the cancellation of the rent? Will the mayor and the housing corporations agree on the best approach or are they going to work side by side? In 2013 my colleague Marcouch made a proposal to temporarily evict nuisance bombers from their homes. This initiative law was subsequently submitted, then still in the name of Mr Dijkhoff, the current Secretary of State. At the time, my colleague did not seem likely to make a second initiative law on housing nuisance. That is why my group put forward this proposal by Mr Marcouch in the written question. I am very grateful to the initiator for including this proposal in the legislative proposal by letter of amendment. However, my colleague did encounter resistance at the time when he drew up his plan. In the event of a residential nuisance, an expatriation would be used too heavily. In the case of domestic violence, however, this was allowed under the right to property and the protection of privacy, but in the case of a housing problem, he always encountered objections due to the clash of these fundamental rights. He was of the opinion at the time that a temporary ban on housekeeping could prevent a definitive ban on housekeeping and that it is therefore a proportionate means. How do the initiator and the minister see this? I think it is important to know this, because this part of the proposal has not been passed by the Council of State either. I understand that the mayor will only be given the new powers if the city council so wishes and there is a regulation setting out the directions the mayor can give in what circumstances. That local customization sounds good to me, but housing nuisances are everywhere. What does the initiator and minister think about a model regulation that helps municipalities to define the new measures? Can the Minister consult with the UNG on this? Finally. Much of the nuisance is caused by people with mental problems. Giving a behavioral instruction will often not work. Although the initiator points out that the behavioral instruction may contain a command to accept psychic help, that will not work for someone who, because of his psychic condition, does not even understand or can carry out such an instruction. What solution or solutions do the initiator and the minister see for these kinds of problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u19	This brings us to the end of the first-term contribution from the Chamber. At any I would like to thank the initiator, the consultant and the members.
