ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	General consultations took place on 22 June. It's been a long time. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Recourt, repeating the rules of the game which are well known: two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the debate we discussed the enormous number of cases of pre-trial detention in the Netherlands. We're the frontrunner in Europe. This will cost us a huge amount of money in damages, but more importantly, people are wrongly imprisoned. The best measure is not always imposed. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the appropriate use of pre-trial detention is essential for criminal justice;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is the leading player in the application of pre-trial detention within Europe;]] [[noting that as a result of this, people have been deprived of their freedom for facts which they have not committed and that the Netherlands is obliged to pay many millions in damages annually;]] [[Considers that taking away from a person's freedom at the time when it is not yet known whether someone is guilty or innocent of the fact that he is suspected of being a final measure should be a final measure;]] [[Considers that there is insufficient attention to appropriate less significant alternatives to remand;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the court provides a good understanding of the grounds and serious objections on which the provisional detention is based, and also to justify why a less far-reaching alternative to remand is not appropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Recourt and Mr Swinkels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-346]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Then I want to use the remaining time to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	I see that Mrs Helder wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	Some doubt on my part, but I am nevertheless asking the question to Mr Recourt. I believe that the coalition agreement concluded between the VVD and the PvdA states that appeal has no suspensory effect. That means that it is not yet clear whether a person convicted by the court at that time has been irreconcilably convicted. I think the PvdA signed it, and that means that whoever is still in custody. That is contrary to the motion Mr Recourt has read.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	That seems contradictory, but it's not. After all, the judge found someone guilty in those cases. So there has been a judge who has ruled that someone is guilty and has imposed a certain sentence that that person does not agree with. That's a different story than when you're stuck waiting for the judge's verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	I do not entirely agree with Mr Recourt. It's different, but it's not that different. Those haven't been irrevocably convicted yet. So the debt isn't irrevocably fixed. Anyway, I'm gonna take this explanation for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Recourt wanted to say something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	Yes, I would like to comment briefly on the Dettmeijer report. There will be a debate on this, letters have been sent and questions asked about it and we will come back to it in detail. That report is about the big difference between what judges impose on punishments in vice cases and what the prosecutor demands and what part of it is the feeling in society. My predecessor Wolfsen has already introduced a duty of motivation. In it, the judge must explain why he deviates from the D.A.'s request. How does this obligation to state reasons fit, I believe, that the Article 359 Code of Criminal Procedure is to this report by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings Dettmeijer? Can the Secretary of State or the Minister take this into account in answering the questions on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mrs Helder will refrain from speaking. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Swinkels, who will not refrain from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. The explanation of behavior is a very useful tool to assess the suitability of someone for a job, but you have to do it very carefully. By which I mean that you do so on objective grounds and established facts. If the cabinet wants to use police data in the assessment of the Vog, this means that all kinds of random contacts with the police or a false report in the police system could be a reason for the VOG's refusal. Because who checks the accuracy of police records? So are we sure there's any culpable behavior? That is why we are not in principle in favour of the use of police data. I shall therefore table the following motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to have police records taken into account when assessing whether a statement on conduct is issued;]] [[considers that the issuing of a statement of conduct should be based on a careful assessment of established facts to the extent relevant to the job for which the statement is requested;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain in principle from using unverified police data when assessing applications for a statement of conduct and to use only verified data that have direct relevance to the job for which the declaration is requested,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been put forward by Mr Swinkels and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr President, this interruption is really a question. What are verified data?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	In any case, it has been checked whether a notification has been correct and whether the systems are correct. It happens very often that a false report has been made. That may come true, but is not corrected in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	But let's say something hasn't been fully verified and someone who works in a child care facility is arrested for a potentially serious sex crime. It is not for nothing that Gunning has indicated that this should be looked at. Should D66 no longer be allowed to do so, and should someone continue to work in child care until he is sentenced, when he may have a very child pornographic offence in his name?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	No, "verified" means a police officer goes there and asks on what basis a report was made. In the event that Mrs Van Toorenburg is now presenting, verification is hardly necessary. I'm talking about reports from neighbors, for example. One neighbor may hate the other and submit a report of nuisance and then intimidation or something like that. That could be quite different. That something like that stays in the system and that it costs someone his job, we don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr. Chairman. We submit the counterpart to the motion of the Labour Party. Mr Recourt says that too many people are wrongly detained, but unfortunately we have had to read in the latest reports that a lot of people are wrongly not trapped. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice already committed in 2013 to making a real effort to track down and arrest convicted criminals;]] [[noting, however, that the figures show that the number of fugitives has increased rather than decreased;]] [[Whereas trust in the rule of law is undermined when criminals avoid their prison sentences;]] [[calls on the Government to take effective measures to ensure that convicted persons do serve their time in prison and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the budgetary procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29279-348]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	I would like to comment on the Ankeiler, as it is called in beautiful German, that this is the counterpart to the motion I have just tabled. That can't be true, can it? What Mrs Van Toorenburg says sounds very reasonable. The PvdA is also a thorn in the eye that far too many people convicted by the judge are free. My motion was about the period when people haven't been convicted yet. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree that these are really different quantities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	They are two different sides of the same problem. That's why I said "the counterpart." You don't want people who didn't do anything to go to jail. I totally agree: better motivation, all fine. The other side is that at the moment a lot of people are out there walking around with a conviction on their pants. Judges think that's horrible, so that needs to be solved. That's why I called it a counterpart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	This input from the side of the Chamber ends very harmoniously. The Secretary of State may, as it appears, reply immediately, to which I would like to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Recourt's question. He asked if the Minister could take a question with him on the subject. It's possible. The Minister has indicated that he will discuss this issue with, among other things, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and the Public Prosecutor. Then this question can be taken away. At the motion-Recourt/Swinkels in part No. 346 I have a technical point. The Government shall not decide whether the Judges shall do what is requested in the motion. We all know that the judges themselves have also found that this justification should be improved as far as they are concerned and that they want to work on it. Through the Council for Justice, we can make an effort to ensure that the judges come to this and that the initiative they have taken is effective. If I can interpret the motion in this way, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	Of course, the Secretary of State can interpret the motion in this way. Luckily, the judge is independent and it's a conversation. However, the motion is just a step wider. Those judges are indeed working on their own quality and this fits in nicely. However, there is a route in the Ministry in the area of criminal proceedings. That's what the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State are about. We are going to talk about it in detail, but the motion also looks forward to anchoring the quality improvements at some point. That is why the motion has been formulated in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr Recourt probably referred mainly to the following verse: "calls on the government to guide the judge to give good insight" et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	Exactly. That can be done by talking to the judges themselves. However, it is also important to think about it in this large legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	I also took that interpretation into account, but then I would advise against the motion. At the moment, we believe that the path that is now underway can still be very successful. We do not want to take an advance on the legal process now or give the impression that we would like to include a legal obligation before we send that proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	I formulated it very widely. I am not saying that the Minister should include an obligation to state reasons in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and I did not make that clear in that motion. However, I say that the new Code of Criminal Procedure should reflect on how we can best organise this motivation across the board. That's a thought that's behind it. That is not a strict task how the Minister should do it, but I would like to see that justification reflected in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr Recourt's wish is clear. The path the judges themselves are going through. It's going the same way. The Minister's efforts to achieve the same result as Mr Recourt's aim are also clear. Perhaps I am too binary in my view about a legislative process, but if I say from my position that we will take it with us in the legislative process, then I think that gives the impression that you are going to write it there. We think that's going too far now. That is the last step that we think goes too far. I do not see exactly what is left between them, but I think we are all going in the same direction and the Minister before the Council of Justice is also going in the direction of trying to ensure that this process is so fruitful that we do not need any further legal anchoring or other methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	What's your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	If this whole discussion makes it clear that, by adopting the motion, we do not anticipate a legal obligation, then I can leave the judgment back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	Why am I so specific about that? There's what it says in those motions. In the Chamber too often we have a kind of negotiation in which there are all kinds of interpretations, so we need to know that very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	I can live with how the Secretary of State explains the motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	Good. Do you have another explanatory question, Mrs. Swinkels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	Yes, I have an explanatory question. Motivating takes time. The case law is working on professional standards. It takes time to do things right. Of course, this has to do with the budget and the financing of justice. Does the Secretary of State also explain the motion in such a way that it is taken care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	No, I think that's a lot of steps forward. For a journey in which you have to look at exactly what costs, it is never so encouraging when you start distributing blank cheques in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	Then the motion to part No. 347 by Mrs Swinkels and Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	I don't recommend that motion. The cabinet has put forward the principled proposal to use police data. I understand that you want to have a discussion about exactly what's going on, but we want to make that clear in the legislative process. Then we have the room to discuss with the Chamber. It's not like everything in the police department is being used one-on-one. On the basis of police records alone, there will never be a refusal. The nature of the notification, frequency and topicality may be included in the screening. In dealing with the legislative process, the Chamber will be able to see in detail where we lay the line and see to what extent it can agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	But isn't the motion superfluous? After all, the Secretary of State says that he will of course carefully consider how to use the police data. I'd rather hear "unneeded" than "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	You are asking this question about a motion that you have not tabled. That's unusual, but it's not illegal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	Then I will interfere in the discussion on the word'verified'. If the motion is superfluous, it is therefore dissuaded. Mrs Van Toorenburg reminds me of an elegant road that I could have taken. I should have hit that right away. Now it's a little... The word "verified" still evokes a little more than I can promise right now. I come to the motion by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Helder on item No. 348. It is a thorn in our eyes anyway that there are people out there who still have to be punished. We all know that there have been cases of people in another country with such a low sentence that an extradition request does not offer any relief. But we also know that there are people we can go after. The encouraging news that is a little lower than good news is that the team that we have on it has managed to catch a lot of those people. The frustrating thing is that that group didn't get smaller on balance. People are coming in again. I understand the referral to remand. Someone who is allowed to wait at home, is condemned, but in the meantime disappears, ends up in the pile. I think we agree on the substance. In the letter in which we informed the Chamber of the problem, we tried to indicate what we want to do about it. A debate has been requested in which we would like to explain this further and in which we will go into more detail about what we have in mind. I was under the impression that we have actually already sent the letter that is being asked for. I believe that the request for debate this week has been of service to the further discussion. It can, of course, always be discussed in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	Before I allow Mrs Van Toorenburg to interrupt, I ask the Secretary of State for an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	When I read the motion like that, I think she's unnecessary because of the letter sent. Perhaps there are very specific issues that need clarification, but they are not clear to me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	I still haven't heard any judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	Needless to say, it's not recommended. I tried to follow the elegant suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	Now I've heard a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	I'm afraid to say it, but I think the Secretary of State can solve it much more elegantly. He has not indicated how he is going to ensure that our goal is achieved, while the Secretary of State in this Chamber has literally said: you can take me into account. I would like to hold the motion so that the Secretary of State can come up with effective measures to deal with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (29279, No. (Applause from the Group of the European People's Party and from the Group of the European People's Party) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	It is up to the Secretary of State to tell you whether or not he thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	For the Acts I note that this was said from my office when that office was held by another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	It was the Secretary of State for Security and Justice who said here in the Chamber: I will see to it that those numbers go down and the Chamber can charge me for that. I'll take care of the Secretary of State for that. I'm not interested in the person who's involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	I'm not gonna let that go either. I myself am pleased for the Acts to make it clear that a certain type of statement that does not fit my nature is not done by me either. Furthermore, everything has been said and I am happy to assume that responsibility. It was more of a personal remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-14-tweedekamer-7.u50	That brings us to the end of this treatment. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given. We shall vote on the motions on 27 September.
