ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We have arrived at the reply of the Chamber, or to put it more contemporaryly: the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks has doubts about the urgency of this separate legislative proposal. Research carried out by the Professor of Public Administration Heinrich Winter shows that the abuse of the Public Administration Act (WOB) is not bad, i.e. an average of €1,500 per municipality per year, while maintaining the maximum penalty payment. In practice, it is often much lower. The abuse is presented a little too dramatically by the Minister and the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Could the Minister respond to Mr Winter's investigation? Four out of ten municipalities think that the excessive attention of the Association of Dutch Municipalities on this subject has helped many people with bad intentions. Can the Minister reflect to what extent he has contributed to this effect by taking over the signals from the Association of Dutch Municipalities? In the meantime, the Chamber has accepted the Open Government Act. The Open Government Act also abolishes the penalty payment scheme and thus tackles the abuse that takes place equally effectively, but this is done in balance. A lot of information needs to be made public by default. There will be a register in which people can see what information they can ask for. Governments need to better motivate why they refuse information requests. Why does the Minister opt for such a unilateral adjustment with this separate bill, which breaks the balance to the detriment of information seekers? We are at a point in time when a more transparent government is required. Taking this step towards less transparency therefore seems to GroenLinks to be an unwise and wrong path. I would like a more factual basis to be provided. That's why I filed the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that investigations into WOB-abuse contradict each other and therefore there is no clear and objective picture of the urgency of releasing the link between the WOB and the Law on penalty payments;]] [[calls on the Government to examine further the extent to which abuse of the WOB is objectivable and the costs involved and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Koşer Kaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34106-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. The government can make laws and the parliament can make laws. At the moment when these are about the same subject, it may well collide. We have made a bill on public access to government so that citizens and journalists can request information from the government. If the administrative bodies of the government do not deliver on time, there will be a penalty payment. That has had a lot of positive effects. Citizens and journalists can get a lot of information on the table. A small group of people have also taken advantage of it on a large scale, by making it a kind of industry to attract as many periodic penalty payments as possible, by hiding requests in an application letter or making impossible requests about the number of curb seals. We want to prevent that abuse. That is why the Minister has proposed to abolish the penalty payment. I said in the first term that you are punishing the wrong people, namely journalists and other people who want and are entitled to information. If the municipal government organisations organize that well, they can easily give it to them. We have to deal with these abusers. Mr Amhaouch has drawn up an amendment on behalf of the CDA aimed at maintaining the penalty payment and preventing abuse in another way, namely by means of a standard form and a number of other cases. I have co-signed this amendment on behalf of the SP. A number of other parties have done the same. It is a bit at the heart of this law, but it will bring us a long way in the right direction. The real solution is, of course, that people do not have to ask for information from governments because governments themselves make that information public as much as possible. To this end, an initiative legislative proposal, namely the Open Government Act, has been tabled. This bill has been passed by the Lower House and is now in the Upper House. Is it true that the penalty payment in the Open Government Act has been removed? Mrs. Voortman, initiator, just said the same thing. Is it true that what the Minister is proposing here tonight is actually already covered by the initiative legislative proposal Open Government Act? If that is the case, then we actually have two laws that do the same. That's on the spacious side. Now we can find two things about that. We can pass this law and send it to the First Chamber. There will then be two legislative proposals before the First Chamber, and then she will have to choose. I don't think that's the royal way. I don't think that's the right way to go either, considering taking away that penalty payment. Again, I'm very much in favour of keeping the penalty payment, unless we make information more public, in accordance with the Open Government Act. I am therefore primarily in favour of the Open Government Act. If that law is not passed by the First Chamber for any reason, then we need to look here at how we can solve the problem. I am more in favour of the solution proposed by Mr Amhaouch. In short, I have a dilemma, with a problem. I'm stuck with a button that I didn't cause, so I hope the minister can help me out a little tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u4	We'll see about that. I have the floor to give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. D66 cannot separate the abolition of the penalty payment from a broader reform aimed at greater openness of administration. Anyone who takes away a means of exerting pressure on the applicants, especially interested people and journalists, must do something in return. The Minister doesn't do that, and that nourishes mistrust. This is also evident from the responses to the internet consultation. Moreover, a broad majority in the House of Representatives supported the Open Government Act, an initiative proposal by Mrs Voortman and my colleague Van Weyenberg. The proposal will ensure that the penalty payment is abolished for public authorities who decide on WED requests too late, but also for a comprehensive reform, for more active disclosure, an information register for accessibility, a shorter period and much more. In short, it is about information as a right rather than as a favour. Then why is the Secretary of State going through with his law? That is the crucial question. What added value does the Minister still see in this regard? Does his bill have any chance of graduating in the First Chamber? Moreover, this does not appear to be a major problem anywhere. Leiden has shown that you can make short cuts with querulants. Abuse means pay damages, according to the judge. In this Chamber, it has always been customary for an initiative proposal adopted in the Lower House and sent to the Upper House to be completed first. If necessary, a similar law can only be proposed afterwards. In this case, that law is already there, so I don't understand it at all. I urge the Minister to hold on to his bill at least until the Supreme Court has decided on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u6	Then the sad task is for me to inform you all that Mr Bosma is refusing to speak. We'll all try to make this battle happen. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. I think it is one week after a year since we held the first deadline for dealing with this bill. In that year, according to the Minister's calculations, which he also showed in the bill, we are EUR 14 million further on expenditure on improper WOB requests. 14 million euros! I can imagine that people who stand up every day and go to work, the hardworking Dutch, are sorely annoyed by the fact that for a year we have kept the possibility open that people are taking advantage of some of the rules we have. That is why it is very good to amend those rules. There are examples left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u8	The 14 million referred to by Mr Veldman concerns all the periodic penalty payments that have been paid over the past year, including the periodic penalty payments that were justified because the government has just reacted far too late. That is precisely what was discussed in detail in the first period. It turned out at the time that it was not clear at all how much abuse there had been. So that 14 million is not the amount actually spent on WOB abuse. I would like to give this to Mr Veldman. I'd like to get a reflection from him on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u9	According to the Minister's calculations, it amounts to 14 million. And yes, there are a number of periodic penalty payments for not delivering in good time. I have also drawn attention to this in my first term, and I will do so in a moment by means of a motion that I will table. However, there is also a lot of money in between for improper requests. We have seen recent examples of it again. As far as the Ministry of V and J is concerned, there is €290,000 in periodic penalty payments and litigation costs for one applicant. At the Ministry of SZW, there are 2,282 WOB requests from one organisation. This only indicates that a lot of requests are made that have nothing to do with public administration and that have everything to do with trying to impose a penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u10	I would then like to hear from Mr Veldman exactly what amount has been spent on abuse and what amount of rightly paid periodic penalty payments. We couldn't get that out of the Minister's bill. Apparently, Mr Veldman knows that, because he says it happens very often. Then he must also mention concrete amounts. He has just mentioned two examples of abuse. Well, we don't know that at all, because we don't know those specific examples. So, exactly how much has been spent on misuse of the WOB to collect a penalty payment? I'd like a man and a horse, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u11	I think it is a completely unnecessary and unnecessary question, because every euro we spend unjustly is too much, whether it is €1, €10, €1 million or €14 million. It is just tax money that we spend that we did not have to spend on people who do nothing but try to catch money unfairly, we have to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u12	Abuse takes place, although fortunately not in large numbers. We can therefore be very brief about the fact that this is not acceptable. I do not need to have a discussion about this with Mr... with the VVD colleague. I'm suddenly forgetting his name. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Veldman. As I have said, I do not need to have a discussion with him on this, because that is indeed unacceptable. The point, however, is, as I have just said in my speech, that the judge is making short cuts with people who abuse. In Leiden, the abuser has to pay compensation. I can give you one more example: the Council of State considers that the former member of the VVD and the current chairman of the VVD Maasgouw have abused to have financial gain. The judge makes short cuts with that, too. And that's the best punishment. So what does this bill of the Minister add, if there is a bill in the First Chamber that is much broader and has much more to offer in terms of content?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u15	This bill adds that we remove the penalty payment, so that the incentive to make improper requests is no longer available. Anyone who actually makes a request, a request that really has something to do with public administration, wants that information. He won't be waiting for a penalty payment if the information isn't delivered on time. Such a person simply wants the information to be delivered on time and I do not think there is a need for a penalty payment. In addition, the Minister's bill still contains the following. If you think you've been unfairly treated by the government, you can go to court and then the judge can still impose a fine, even a fine higher than the current penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mrs Koşer Kaya, may I ask you, before I give you the floor, to take into account the custom here in the house not to mention the names of people who cannot defend themselves here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u17	You're right, Mr. Chairman. I should've just said "VVD politician."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u18	That's your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u19	However, there has been no answer to my question. I said to Mr Veldman that the judge is making short cuts with people who abuse. Then what is the added value of a limited legislative proposal, while there is one in the Upper Chamber that is much wider and has much more content for people who do want information, especially journalists and interested parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u20	As I said, the added value is that you take the incentive to take advantage at all. Why take the step of having to go through the judge again? You can also simply remove that incentive, so that there is no more reason to make improper requests as you will no longer receive compensation if you are delivered too late. And yes, Mr President, I will continue with my story of regular late delivery. This has a lot to do with the information system that government organisations do not have in order. In my first term, I asked the Minister for this. In itself, he responded nicely to that. I agree with him that this cannot be arranged at hammer stroke and that it is something of a long life. He referred to a number of pilots that are now running to ensure that there is improvement. However, when I look at the last month, I see a few examples passing by. I quote a few headlines of news reports: "One in five municipalities does not archive website," "Municipal wrestling with floppy's, tapes and CD-ROMs" and "Municipals are wrong about archiving websites." In terms of information management, things aren't going well. I think we should step up, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large number of public authorities do not have their archiving in order;]] [[Whereas accountability of the public administration and thus also the timely handling of WOB requests calls for a well-organised information system;]] [[Considers that this is a responsibility of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to ensure proper disclosure of governance and re-use of public sector information;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with other governments (as well as the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Interprovincial Consultation and the Union of Water Councils), to draw up an action plan to put public information systems in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman, Mr Fokke and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34106-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u21	For the Minister's sake, since you can always ask yourself what "an action plan" is, I imagine that the Minister is going to work similar to what he did with the open dates. It has prepared a national open data agenda with concrete steps being taken to ensure that open data is unlocked. I can also imagine this in the information system, so that concrete steps are being taken to ensure that public authorities manage their information systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u22	I don't have the motion in front of me yet. What deadline did the VVD Group set in this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u23	I didn't mention a term in it. As far as I'm concerned, this is happening as soon as possible. I'm just waiting for the Minister's response on how quickly he can deliver this. If he says it's gonna take him two years or a year, I'm gonna tighten up the motion a little bit. I'll start by resigning this assignment to the Minister. I expect him to come up with a deadline in a moment which we can say is a fair term. There is, of course, a need to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u24	It's a request, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u25	Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u26	It would, of course, be a credit to Mr Veldman if he himself mentioned a term. Mr Veldman has already mentioned this in the first term. The Minister has had a year to deal with it. I think he also said in his response that he wanted to deal with it. So there's got to be something there. I would say: just mention a concrete date, for example Prinsjesdag.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u27	It seems unfair to me to say now to the Minister that he could have been working on it for a year. Yes, in general, yes, but no, because there was no concrete task yet. We waited a year for this second term, because we first started working on this Open Government Act. I put this motion to the Minister and I'd like to hear from him how he's going to implement it. If that is not concrete enough, I will tighten the motion by a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u28	Mr. Chairman. The bill that the government wants to prevent abuse of the Public Administration Act poses a dilemma for the CDA Group. On the one hand, it is clear that the WOB should not be used as an ATM. Evaluation research into the Penalty Law has shown to be the biggest bottleneck of abuse through the submission of improper WOB requests. A WOB application is form-free and the applicant does not have to take any interest. Those principles of the WOB almost lead to an invitation to abuse. The deletion of the link with the Penalty Act is a solution to that problem. However, that solution is problematic as far as the CDA Group is concerned, because with the release of the penalty payment in the event of a failure to take a decision in time, the genuine WOB applicant, who still has more than the number of abusers, is taken out of his hands as well. The government is now proposing to abolish a regime because it is being abused instead of tackling the abuse at the front. The CDA Group has tabled an amendment, supported by six parties, to introduce a standard form for WOB requests. The Council for Justice also supports that amendment in its statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u29	In order to facilitate the discussion, I have to say that this is the amendment on item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u30	I think it is the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u31	That has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u32	Excuse me. The sincere WOB requester is thus not put in the way of strobe, while hiding WOB requests are prevented. This amendment is crucial for the CDA Group. How does the Minister assess the Boekel municipality's rule, which does not deal with WOB requests by e-mail or fax? WOB requests which are apparently merely intended to collect a penalty payment are frustrating for any official who has to spend his time on them. WOB applicants who seem to be only seeking to thwart the government are also a problem. I refer here to the Dordt writer, who has been in the news a lot. The CDA Group fears that the bill does not yet provide the municipality of Dordrecht with any tools to deal with this multi-writer. The Rotterdam court has found that the polytheist has abused the law. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, administrative bodies should be able to act against abuse of law. We have tabled a second amendment to that effect. NDP News media and the Dutch Association of Journalists protest against abolishing the penalty payment. They rightly argue that their members do not call on the WOB for financial gain. Their experience is that a stick is needed behind the door and they state that the documentary information in the government is not in order. Unfortunately, that is not news for the Chamber. The Elias Committee came to that same conclusion in 2014. The CDA Group believes that government physical and digital information management needs to be vigorously addressed. As far as we are concerned, the good intentions of the Association of Dutch Municipalities have not yet been formulated sufficiently. Recent research by the National Administration shows that half of the municipalities are experiencing problems with information stored in an outdated way. That is why the CDA Group supports the Veldman motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u33	I would also like to mention that the second amendment you referred to is the one on item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u34	Mr. Chairman. We have heard it again today: there are differences of opinion about the extent of the abuse. Nor do I have the feeling that we are going to get out of there today. But the fact is and the fact remains that there are evil people who have found a hatch to collect tax money very easily. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we shouldn't want that. We therefore consider this law to be a good thing. Maybe I should say "this law," because there's not that much in it. But it's something that's very important. We therefore welcome the fact that this bill will put an end to this abuse. But we also believe that the good should not suffer from the evil. In the first term, therefore, I said on behalf of the PvdA that the bill is very much written from the malicious. That is why, as the Labour Party, I have tabled an amendment to that effect in the first term, so that we can put the objection back into the law and not allow people to appeal immediately. We, as Labour Party, believe that you should put back a remedy if you take a remedy out of it, and you actually do that by unplugging the penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u35	You mean the amendment to item No. 12, that is to say, Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12, that Amendment No 12,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u36	As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the law must be sent to the Upper House as soon as possible. It has been for a year still, but that is without prejudice to the fact that it is very important to get this law to the First Chamber as soon as possible. Then let the First Chamber decide in what order it wants to deal with these laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u37	As far as speed is concerned, you will be served at your beck and call, because the Minister does not need time for reflection or consultation. He will reply immediately and I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mr. Chairman. This is the second time that the bill has been dealt with. I will stick to the good practice of discussing only new elements and of course providing the amendments and motions with an opinion from the government. To be honest, this means that I would not like to repeat the whole discussion from the first time on the harmfulness of this abuse. The combination of the Penalty and Appeal Act in case of failure to decide in time and the WOB leads to abuse and that is the reason for this repair. I note that this repair is also part of the Act of Open Government recently adopted by the House of Representatives, which is now in the Upper House for treatment. In a way it is therefore no regret to repair the current, existing WOB in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u39	One more time: the Public Access Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you for the addition, Mr President. We now have a Public Administration Act. The House of Representatives has adopted an otherwise dissuaded Act on Open Government. It's now in the First Chamber for treatment. This law contains exactly the same measures to prevent the abuse of the Penalty and Appeal Act in the event of a failure to make a timely decision. Apparently, there was broad support for this and I would not like to recapitulate that discussion here. Then there is the question of Mr Van Raak and Mrs Voortman why we would not like to see the Open Government Act adopted in the First Chamber with great enthusiasm, as the same repair has been done. I understand that question, but I cannot escape pointing out that this initiative law was strongly discouraged by the government, partly because there was no financial cover for it. We estimate that the scale of the costs will be very substantial. This is generally a category of arguments which could in any case lead to some reflection in the First Chamber. The last time we had to deal with a similar situation was at the Wet Huis for whistleblowers. Then it led to novelles and a one-year treatment. I would therefore like to make the repair, which is also included in Mrs Voortman's proposal, now. Again, it's a repair law. If the First Chamber finally decides against the government's opinion to adopt that Open Government Act, despite the objections I see on the budget, then the current Public Administration Act will anyway expire. Should any complications appear there, should it delay or not be adopted, we have arranged the same repair proposed by Mrs Voortman through this bill. That was an explicit wish of the Dutch municipalities. It also puts an end to the shame that there is constantly being abused, whether it be tens or hundreds of millions, and that the government is not doing anything about it and is being milked out in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u41	I see that your introductory remarks have led to a lively interest in Members. First up is Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u42	Although the government did not recommend the Open Government Act, the House of Representatives approved it. I am pleased that the Minister says that the abuse clause proposed by the Minister here today is also included in the Own-initiative Act. That's good to know. I find it remarkable that the Minister is here in anticipation of an initiative law being dealt with in the First Chamber, assuming that that law will not be passed there, so that a repair law is already possible in the Second Chamber. I think that in the relations between the Chambers and in the political process is a bit odd.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u43	The order was a different one. This law was dealt with in the first term in this Chamber a year ago. At the explicit request of the initiators, the second period has been postponed. In the end, I didn't know that a year ago there was a legislative proposal that should really be dissuaded even after amendment in the eyes of the cabinet. To this end, there are arguments of a state-law nature for a lack of coverage, which I will also raise in the Upper Chamber. I would not be surprised if these arguments lead in any case to a further examination of the legislative proposal before us. For the duration of this discussion, I would like us to make this repair; a repair which is apparently supported in a broad sense and is part of the other legislative proposal. Then it is not in the hands of the gods, but of the senators what ultimately happens to Mrs Voortman's draft initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u44	I had initially intended to congratulate the Minister on his reluctance when an initiative was taken earlier from the Chamber, but I forgot. It is a customary right, but it is a good thing that a government adheres to it. I would also like to vote in favour of this law when the Amhaouch amendment comes through, and especially when the Open Government Act in the Upper Chamber is not adopted. But, yeah, I don't know. I do not think it is appropriate, to put it this way, to adopt repair legislation in the House of Representatives now, in anticipation of a debate that still has to be held in the House of First Instance, where the government takes it for granted that this initiative law will not work. I would be happy to vote in favour of this amended law, but we will have to wait until the examination of the Open Government Act has been completed. Before we adopt a repair law, we have to wait and see if the Open Government Act actually doesn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u45	To some extent, I am responsible for taking the word "repair" in my mouth. That may be a misunderstanding. This isn't a repair law. This law repairs a miscarriage, so it restores a situation that is widely perceived as undesirable, and I would wish for it anyway. Even if I had never heard of the Open Government Act from Mrs Voortman, I would wish that. In fact, I also wished for it, because I made the proposal here more than a year ago. I would remind Mr Van Raak that when the House of Whistleblowers Act was discussed, a somewhat similar situation, the proposal was initially adopted by the House of Whistleblowers, despite the fact that it was not recommended by the House of Whistleblowers. It was commented on a number of points in the First Chamber by subject-K, and then ratified through a novel one and a half years later. For the duration of that interim period, I would like to say that this is not only my wish, but also the wish of many circles in the Dutch municipalities that abuse should not be allowed to continue. I therefore urge the Court to adopt this proposal. It is 'no regret', because there is broad agreement on the content. After all, it was also part of Mrs Voortman's bill. Well, at least that's what happened. This will stop this abuse and end the situation that many congregations say you can't let continue: the WOB is knowingly being abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u46	In recent years, I have been given three own-initiative laws, including in the First Chamber, which have been dissuaded by the Cabinet. So it also happens that our colleagues across the street adopt laws that ministers do not like. Then the question is: why keep this law under control? I think it would be much more logical to wait for a moment. I have another question. The Minister says that there is "no regret" because it is also in the Open Government Act. The point is, of course, that this is a two-sided law. Yes, this instrument, we are removing that link, but on the other hand, the applicants are given more opportunities. On the other hand, the only thing this law does is remove the instrument of the applicants, without giving anything in return. I think the Minister is ignoring that now. Why does he insist on pushing this law through here with steam and boiling water, knowing that there is a law that is much more balanced and that is already in the Upper Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u47	Mrs Voortman says: firstly, this is a bad proposal and secondly, I am doing it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u49	One at a time is a good habit in this house. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u50	I wasn't finished. That is my summary of Mrs Voortman's contribution. She says: it is not a problem at all; the scale of abuse is very bad; you should not do that at all; citizens have the right to that compensation. At the same time she says: it would be very undesirable to deal with this now, because it is already in my own proposal that has been adopted by the House of Representatives. I'm just looking for consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u51	It is a pity that the Minister does not listen carefully to my question. What I indicated in the question was that we just have a balanced law. Yes, we are doing something about the link between the Public Access Administration Act and the Penalty Act, but at the same time we are giving citizens something back. We give them greater transparency, active openness, faster deadlines. I miss that in this bill. The Open Government Act is a "for what to do" law; on the other hand, it does take something away from citizens, but it doesn't give anything in return. That is why it is not a "no regret" law as the Minister says. I would like the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u52	I will. Mrs Voortman says this law takes something away from citizens. Moreover, she is opposed to dealing with the proposal here, because she wants to take it away from her own proposal. She's just saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u53	Without giving anything in return!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mrs Voortman, the Minister has the floor. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u55	All she's saying is that in my proposal, that's undesirable, that's taking it away, in balance with something else, which I do think is desirable. However, that does not suddenly make it less undesirable. I believe that we are taking something away from the citizens if we allow the situation to continue that there are crooked businesses that collect billions and millions of dollars in penalty payments, whereas the law is not meant to do so at all. Every month that that continues, we citizens take something away. So I very much appreciate that element in Mrs Voortman's initiative proposal, which I will also argue in the First Chamber, but unfortunately there are some uncovered parts in it, which means that I will not support the proposal as a whole. On that point, we want to stop the abuse and I ask the Chamber to do so in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u56	I note that the Minister does not address the fact that it is important that there is balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u57	Balance between what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u58	Mr Minister, Mrs Voortman has the floor. Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u59	Between what is in the interests of citizens and what is in the interests of the government. That's what I miss about that story. If the Minister now claims that it costs millions, I say: that has not been demonstrated! Overall, all periodic penalty payments cost between 8 and 14 million, but the number of periodic penalty payments due to active abuse is not yet clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u60	I don't think I'll convince Mrs. Voortman. She says that my bill is made up of a component that is in the interest of citizens and a component that is not in the interest of citizens, whereas I believe that it is in the interest of citizens, namely the reduction of abuse. That's worth taking for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u61	Mrs Voortman, I have not limited the number of interruptions. I like the debate as long as people don't get mixed up, to put it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u62	The point is that the penalty also ensures that people who really want information get it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u63	Isn't this what you're proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u64	Mr. Chairman. I didn't understand what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u65	Then why is this in the Voortman Bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u66	Because we also see that in some cases there is indeed the question of the penalty payment being used. At the same time when you give citizens who really want information other means in their hands, you can do something about the penalty payment, but only then. It's important that you have a bill that's balanced. I miss that in this bill. I do not think we agree. That's a shame, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u67	I had that feeling a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u68	I maintain that with almost all the municipalities in the Netherlands, I feel that it is undesirable that the law should be abused in this way. That can't last another day. In retrospect, perhaps I should have urged the Chamber to deal with this law earlier. Anyway, we're here now. I hope that the law will be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u69	The minister's talking about a million-dollar abuse. I haven't seen any evidence of that. I want a statement from the Secretary of State. He says, and then there's got to be proof. I'd like to see that piece of evidence. Otherwise, I would like to announce that I will ask for a postponement of the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u70	I'm not surprised at the latter. I've never had the impression that D66 wished for this. That is further to be judged by the Chamber. I would advise against postponing voting. I refer to the explanatory memorandum which contains a letter from the College of Attorneys General which speaks volumes. The evaluation report of a number of acceleration elements in the Awb also shows that different administrative bodies are faced with widespread abuse. We have also discussed this extensively with each other in the first period. In the end, this has to be weighed. I leave the weighting to the Chamber. I only note that Mrs Koşer Kaya is a co-signatory of an initiative-law proposal that stops this abuse in exactly the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u71	The point is, the minister says there's a million-dollar abuse. I've read the pieces, too, but I haven't read anything about millions anywhere. In any case, there is no hard evidence that it would be millions. So I'm asking the Minister to prove it. Can the Minister, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u72	We are now going to recapitulate the first term in the second period. This calls for an assessment of the requests for abuse. I referred to the following in the first term. The penalty payments received are one side of the story. However, the cost of the number of cases in which municipalities have ultimately provided that information to prevent the penalty payment, while they had the impression that the applicant had no intention of doing so, is very high. That's not kept by the accountant. You have to base yourself on the input of municipalities and the letter from the Attorney General. Whether it's tens or hundreds of millions, there's broad agreement in the Chamber to stop that. I call on the Chamber to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u73	Without repeating your first term, this is your last interruption, Mrs. Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u74	I conclude that the Minister's statement that there is an abuse of millions cannot be realised. The point that remains is the following. This is exactly the same as Mrs Voortman's bill. Then the question remains as to why the Minister does not keep his proposal. After the decision of the First Chamber, he can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u75	Now I'm gonna have to step in. That's what the room's about. You can make your own proposal on which the Court can rule. Then we will see when the vote will take place. This is not a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u76	Those were my introductory remarks which are actually of a procedural nature. It was a response to Mr Van Raak's button and to Mrs Voortman's questions. I do not think I have been asked any more questions that are not linked to amendments or motions. First of all, I come to Mrs Fokke's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u77	Mr Amhaouch felt that two questions he had asked had to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u78	I asked questions about the situation in Boekel. The municipality of Boekel is no longer waiting for the minister and for the new bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u79	We're not gonna ask the questions again. So that question is still open. What else is open?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u80	The question about the Dordtse lotschrijf. We have asked in what way removing the penalty payment in the adapted law helps against the multi-writer in the Dordt situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u81	I don't have the situation in Boekel so ready. At least the law is as it is now. I do not want to ride the people of Boekel in the wheels, but, of course, refusing to request a WOB has to comply with the current legal frameworks. Otherwise, it's up to the judge to see if that leads to a penalty payment. The situation is that there can be no substantive test by the municipality to see if there is any abuse. There is therefore the possibility of a penalty payment in the event of abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u82	Let's be practical. In this way the Minister will speak about the amendments and motions. Perhaps after that he will have the information to answer the question about Boekel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u83	Yeah, I could, but I don't have much hope of that. As far as the Dordtse multi-writer is concerned, I must say that I agree with Mr Amhaouch. Of course, you cannot stop all forms of abuse. As I understand it, this is someone who consciously tries to keep the government occupied as much as possible by throwing as much sand into the machine as possible. However, you cannot stop the abuse from taking the measure that is now before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u84	We are now going to enter or remove an instrument. The Minister wants to remove the penalty payment. Most sincere WOB applicants, who are well in the majority, are punished by this. We're trying to solve part of the abuse by removing the penalty payment. Why is the Minister only looking at the penalty payment instrument for resolving abuse? We have made a number of proposals which we would also like to receive a response to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u85	That was my intention, too. I would also like to discuss those amendments, those proposals. But first of all, I would like to say something about Mrs Fokke's amendment, which was tabled earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u86	Is there anything Mrs Fokke would like to say before the Minister says anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u87	Yes. I have another question. We are talking about abuse of law all the time and that it would be a solution to this. But didn't the problem with the WOB and the Penalty Act already play at the time of a predecessor, Mrs Spies or anyone else before? I think it's already been investigated. When it was already said that you couldn't arrange abuse of justice after noon and that you really have to do something for that. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u88	Yeah, I agree. I have therefore tried not to have the discussion all over again. I have already referred in the first period to the extensive inventories of previous years. In my view, this is not a big deal either. This is really about removing obvious abuse, something the UNG has been asking for for for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u89	I'll be more specific. Wasn't it the crux at the time that the abuse of law in the preliminary stage has led to more judicialisation even though I myself am a lawyer.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u90	Yeah, that's my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u91	Let us now turn to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u92	Mrs Fokke's amendment to item No. 12 she also submitted to the Open Government Act. I left that judgment to the Chamber at that time. That amendment was adopted at that time. I'd like to do the same thing right now. There are two amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. First of all, I come to Amendment No. 14. That amendment requires that the freedom of form of the WOB be abolished. Therefore, there is only a WOB request if a fixed form is used. In addition, it should allow the penalty payment scheme to apply. I have already pointed out in the first period that one might wonder whether the latter does not make a destructive contribution to the legislative proposal, but that is to the Chamber. After all, you say: we are adopting a bill to stop the penalty payment from being applicable to the WED, but we are amending it. Then there's really nothing left of the law itself. Anyway, it's a formal matter in the end. I could live with it anyway. It is also contrary to the philosophy of the WOB, namely that the request is, in principle, free of form. This can be done by fax, by e-mail, by letter and by telephone, as long as it is documented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u93	As President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to point out that the Minister is actually throwing a ball at this House: "Room, would you like to consider whether this is not a destructive amendment? If none of the members pick that up as such, we'll just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u94	I don't want to make it any harder than it is. Let me confine myself to dissuading it, with the remark that it is touching at the heart of the bill. So be it. The other amendment concerns the regulation of a general anti-abuse clause. I believe that my predecessor Donner has been talking to the Chamber about this once, and that he did not recommend it at the time. For apert abuse, there are already provisions in the Civil Code. Those general anti-abuse provisions can therefore be relied on by the courts. The essence of the WOB is that citizens can ask for information and do not have to tell the governing body what they intend to do with it. If you're going to take an admissibility test to see if it's useful to the applicant and whether he's going to make useful use of it or whether there's any use you don't see and perhaps abuse, you're going to take a whole new test in the implementation of the Public Administration Act, which I think is contrary to the legislator's intention. I therefore advise against that amendment. I also refer to previous discussions that have been conducted extensively on the possibility of including an anti-abuse clause in the Public Administration Act. That brings me to the two motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 15 from Mrs. Voortman. I'd advise against it. There is apt and evident abuse of the combination of the Penalty and Appeals Act in non-timely decision and the WOB. I refer to my earlier arguments. I would like to emphasise once again, also in the direction of GroenLinks and D66, that it is also a matter of principle. Whether it's about tens or hundreds of millions, you can't let that happen. You can't explain that to civilians, can you? So I advise against this motion. I think there's enough known to stop this abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u95	We won't let it survive, because it's also in the Open Government Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u96	But it hasn't been accepted yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u97	I urge you not to get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u98	The question is why this is in such a hurry. That is why it is important to see how much is actually involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u99	This is really a repeat of moves. Mrs Voortman continues to ask how much it really is and continues to say that it is not really a big problem, that it is her objection, and that it is also in her own proposal. I keep finding that a weird discrepancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u100	We are indeed saying that it does not need to be repaired tomorrow and that you can take it with you if you do a revision of the WOB. That's what we do. The Minister says that we can't, it's in a hurry and that's why we have to do it now. Then I think he has a duty to show why it is in such a hurry and whether you can read it from the scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u101	What Mrs Voortman calls the revision of the WOB is a proposal that I will strongly discourage in the First Chamber, because it involves hundreds of millions in costs. So I still have to see that the First Chamber says that with the purchase of new computers those costs can be taken away immediately. If we need more time to consider this proposal, I should also like, in principle, that the Chambers should do everything in their power to stop this abuse now, even at the explicit request of the local authorities. So I advise against this motion. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Veldman to the Chamber. I agree that it is important to have the information system of all governments in order. I would like to point out to the gourmets that it says in the recital that 'the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations has a responsibility here'. We must, of course, be clear that in principle the primary responsibility for archiving by municipalities lies with the municipalities. Those are the inter-administrative relationships. I have the system responsibility to ensure that public administration in general does its job as well as possible. So from that system responsibility I can live with the operative part. I want to do this and I admit that if this motion is adopted, I will do so. But I would like to make this comment, otherwise I will have a strange discussion with the Dutch municipalities. I am not the first person to be responsible for the information system of the municipalities. I assume that Mr Veldman agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u102	That's right, the minister is not the primary responsibility for putting the information system in order in municipalities. However, the Minister has a responsibility in public administration. This also affects municipalities in ensuring a good information system. Perhaps the Minister was still planning to say it, but could he indicate when he can or wants to draw up such an action plan? Mrs Voortman also asked for this by interrupting. My own idea is to have this available in the internal affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u103	That is the budget debate this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u104	Can I make it an effort at the moment? After all, I have to do this with the municipalities, so I don't have it entirely in my hand. But with this commitment, I will engage with the municipalities and also with the other levels of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u105	Yeah, you're gonna take that? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u106	In doing so, I have discussed the motions and the amendments and come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u107	That's right, unless you have information about Boekel at your disposal by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u108	Oh, yeah. Under the General Administrative Law Act, as I have just said, a message can only be sent electronically if that road is opened by the board. That's Article 2.15. In Boekel, oral and written WOB requests can always be made. With that, Boekel does something that can and can be done on his own. And if it's okay, I'll stay out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u109	In the municipality of Boekel the initiative has been taken, because there is also the abuse. We have spoken to a great many local authorities, and they say that the penalty payment should remain strong, if they can take other measures. In this municipality the initiative has been taken not only to receive WOB requests by e-mail or fax, because this can be abused. That municipality is taking its own measures. Why does the Minister focus solely on the penalty payment and does he not look more broadly at other solutions to allow the sincere WOB applicants to come to their senses?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u110	Those sincere WOB applicants, of course, keep their full right to that information. If that information is refused, they can also take the way to court. That road is open and it is occasionally walked. There's a lot of people who've been told the same thing. As a result of this question, I would like to add the following. From journalism there has also been criticism of stopping this penalty payment option, but the editor of a national newspaper of course has nothing to do with that amount of €1,250. An editor just wants that information. The combination of the WOB and the Penalty Law is therefore not at all a useful tool to persuade administrative bodies to provide information. First of all, the way is for the administrative bodies to comply with the law. If they do not, they may be forced to give that information by a court of law. And that will continue to exist completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u111	Mr Van Raak has an interruption on another point, presumably.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u112	The Minister is, of course, quite right. Citizens want information, not a penalty. At the end of a debate, the President shall always make a proposal for the vote. However, I would now like to make a proposal myself, namely that, with the vote on this bill in this Chamber, we should wait until the Open Government Act is dealt with in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u113	We're gonna do this in order. We shall conclude this debate first. No one wants to speak in substance anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u114	May I give an opinion or a request to your Chamber on this last point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u115	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u116	I foresee that the treatment of the Open Government Act, which has been adopted in this Chamber, will not be a hammerpiece in the First Chamber. Consistent with my position here, I will strongly discourage that bill there. In the time to the moment that that law may be passed, I hope that we can stop the abuse with a clause, which is also part of that proposal. It's not disputed like that. I hope the Chamber will be prepared to vote on this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u117	This advice is to a large extent a repetition of your previous input.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u119	I would suggest that we talk about Mr Van Raak's proposal. In fact, that is an order proposal. He proposes to vote not on Tuesday, but later on on on this bill, namely after the other bill has been dealt with in the Upper House. Things like this are quite simple here; we find whether or not there is a majority in favour of such a proposal. I would ask Members to express their views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u120	This seems to me to be an excellent plan, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u121	It seems to me to be an excellent proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u122	Mr President, as far as the VVD Group is concerned, we can simply vote on this bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr Veldman therefore disagrees with Mr Van Raak's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u124	I, too, would like to vote on this bill as soon as possible, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u125	The examination of this bill in the Lower House has been suspended for a year. That was done at the request of the parties. I feel like there's a game playing with this somewhere now with the aim of slowing things down again. Personally, I don't like that much. Let the First Chamber decide in what order it intends to deal with these proposals. I will therefore not accept the request to postpone the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-02-tweedekamer-11.u126	I think that if things like this are a small majority, you should take that into account. In this case, however, it is a large majority which does not support Mr Van Raak's proposal. So we'll be voting on the bill next Tuesday.
