ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u1	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of D66, in our general consultation, I stressed the importance of having a consistent and permanent focus on road safety. In fact, road safety needs to be placed higher on the priority list within the wide range of safety discussions we have with each other. I also noticed that many of my colleagues from other political parties have been on exactly the same lines or have been for a long time. It is good to see that road safety within this Chamber is widely regarded as an important issue. In my maiden speech, I put forward road safety as my personal focus in this Chamber. Unfortunately, we received some unsatisfactory answers in general consultation. That is why I have come to a motion on road safety and better registration of road accidents. I am tabling this motion on behalf of Mrs Visser of the VVD, Mr Hoogland of the PvdA and Mr Van Helvert of the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of road deaths and road injuries increased for the first time in years in 2015;]] [[Whereas proper registration of road accidents provides tools for the prevention of accidents in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a plan of action to ensure a final registration of the place and place of work of road accidents and to inform the Court of Justice before Prinsjesdag,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj, Mr Visser, Mr Hoogland and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-509]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u2	GroenLinks shares with D66 that of course we want fewer road deaths and serious injuries. But this motion, which calls for registration, is very soft. The Minister promised in advance that there would be a maximum of four or five more deaths. Now we see that there are 32-33 and is the reaction of D66: let's go register it. Doesn't D66 just say turn back that speed until it can kill without extra killing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u3	In this motion, we refer first of all to the increase of 50 road deaths. That increase is independent of what Mrs Van Tongeren refers to, the increase in the number of road deaths specifically on those roads where 130 km/h can be driven. That's two separate cases. As far as the first is concerned, it is scandalous that we have not yet settled it with each other. I hope that will work, so that everyone knows exactly where, when and how something could have happened. With regard to the second case, the roads where 130 km/h can be driven: I doubted whether I would table a motion on this today. We have just received a letter containing some more information. I therefore believe that it is too premature to table my motion on this point, because I would like to have further discussions on what is stated in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u4	A brief follow-up question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u5	We have, of course, had extensive discussions about it. In the annex to the Minister's letter, in Table 4, you can clearly see that at 130 km/h the risk per billion kilometres driven is much higher than on any other road. So I don't know what evidence to wait for. I hope that D66 will at least support my motion in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u6	I look forward to the GroenLinks motion and its content. I hope that we will come a step closer to the moment when we can give people even more influence over their direct driving behaviour and give the Minister more opportunities, not only for the roads for which she is responsible, but also for the roads for which a provincial responsibility or a local responsibility is attached. Contrary to what is sometimes thought, for two years there has been no more 300 million that the municipalities can spend on road safety aspects. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u7	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the increase in the speed limit to 130 km/h leads to more accidents and fatalities on motorways;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to reduce the number of fatalities on 120 km/h and 130 km/h routes and to refrain from identifying any new road sections at which the maximum speed is increased to 130 km/h,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the safety of slow traffic participants is affected by increasing car traffic in inner cities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with road managers, how to contribute to safer traffic conditions for slow traffic participants, for example by introducing the "host" regime in the city centre, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-510]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-511]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u8	As I said in the interrupting debate with the D66 spokesman, I have questions about the letter that the Minister sent to the Chamber today. Table 4 in this letter shows that at 130 km/h there is a much higher risk rate per billion kilometres driven than for all other road sections. The Minister said before the introduction of the 130 km/h that she would be so safe that there would be up to four to five additional deaths. That number is well exceeded. I therefore expect the Minister at least not to add any new sections. Preferably I'd see the rise reversed. You can't blame it on inattention, whatsaps and all that other stuff, because you have it on 120, too. At 130, the blow hits much harder. Your braking path is much longer and in the time you need to react, you travel further. As a result, the impact is heavier. It doesn't matter if you're eating whatsap or not. If you do it at 100, you're less at risk of a fatal accident. That is what the Minister's figures show now. That's why I want action now!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u9	Mr. Chairman. In general, we have had a good debate on distractions in traffic. We also talked about the fact that distraction when you are on a bike is also very dangerous. I would like to make two motions on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of mobile phones and smartphones on bicycles is increasing, thereby reducing road safety;]] [[calls on the government to launch a campaign against cycling similar to the PDO campaign,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to the liability of cyclists when they cause an accident due to reckless app or call behaviour;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the liability of cyclists in reckless app and call behaviour and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-512]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert and Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-513]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u10	I have a question about the first motion. It is actually the same question as the one I just asked my colleague from D66. We see clearly in the letter in Table 4 that there is a much higher risk at 130. What is the CDA's position on increasing the speed limit to 130 on even more routes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u11	The CDA has always been very clear about that. I also understand Mrs Van Tongeren's question very well and I welcome the fact that this is always being addressed. The CDA is for driving if you can. If it puts road safety at serious risk or if it increases the cost of clean air or noise, we do not think it is a good thing, but it is not at 130 km/h in general. If you can, but if you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u12	Mr. Chairman. I've got a motion on the performance of moustache bikes and scooters. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large majority of BOVAG's member (snor) bicycle dealers are still involved in increasing moustache bikes;]] [[Whereas the Government rejects the measures proposed by the PvdA Group to counter the increase of moustache bicycles, but does not yet put an alternative to them;]] [[calls on the Government to present an action plan to combat the increase of moustache bikes for budgetary treatment I and M,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-514]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u13	I was still counting on an interruption by Mrs Van Tongeren with the same question she put to all the other signatories of the motion!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u14	I've been waiting for it too, but we're not gonna do entrapment!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u15	But I still have some time. The answer to her interruption is that she once suggested that she drive 130. That was on the A2, provided the car was powered electrically. Then it was okay! I would add that this is divided in my party, but I am surprised that Mrs Van Tongeren is now pressing this so hard and telling us all that you are not allowed anywhere 130, when she herself proposed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u16	Mr. Chairman. I only have one motion. Of course, the minister thinks straight away: that's where the guy's gonna start about those driving schools again. Well, no. We are looking forward to legal proceedings and I am very much looking forward to that. My motion is about the fast charging stations. We discussed this during the general discussion. The minister was very different from me in that, so I checked everything again. I feel like I have a solid motion here after all. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the concessions issued in 2012 for the expressway expressway charging stations had an option for the placing of shop or toilet;]] [[noting that these concessions were restricted by the end of 2013 and that the operators of the high-speed charging stations are no longer allowed to offer additional facilities;]] [[Whereas electric drivers also like to use facilities such as a toilet, wifi and a cup of coffee with crockery;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with the express charging concessions issued in 2012 and to ensure fair competition between high-speed charging stations and conventional petrol stations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-515]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u17	Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to leave a little early. I may no longer be present when the Minister answers my questions. I'll let her know that we'll follow the answer through the internal video system. We have just received a letter from the Minister, and I would like to read out a passage from it, which leads to a question. The Minister writes about the ring roads: "The speed of 80 km/h already applies on part of the ring roads. In practice, however, this speed also appears to lead to more congestion, which is bad for the flow and therefore certainly not necessarily conducive to air quality." We have been trying to make this point for years, but these 80 km zones remain. So once again the question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to abolish these zones. After all, they cause traffic jams and are not good for the air, so they don't make sense. I have another point. It may be a small point, but for some people it is an important point: the helmet duty for the electric bike. More and more people want to ride an electric bike. Now the Minister is going to introduce a very curious helmet duty for bicycles that offer stair support above 25 km/h. In the Netherlands we have legislation that only leads to a helmet duty from 40 km/h, namely from the moped. I actually think we should use the same line for the electric bike. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is a real cycling country;]] [[Whereas more and more people want to ride an electric bicycle;]] [[Whereas cyclists have a duty to helmets;]] [[Whereas more and more electric bicycles also provide stair support over 25 km/h;]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce a helmet duty and registration requirement for electric bicycles up to 40 km/h,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-516]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Belhaj has tabled a motion on better registration. I would like to add an operative part to that motion in order to arrive at an integral analysis. So that's the call I'm making. We will then have all the figures at once, so that we can have a good debate here in the Chamber on the causes. I still have a few motions. In doing so, we would like to prepare ourselves for the debate on the alcohol lock programme. Mr Van Helvert has requested this. He and I have asked questions about this program. In any case, it seems appropriate to give the cabinet some homework in preparation for that debate, so that we can do it properly after the summer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the alcohol lock programme (hereinafter 'the ASP') can no longer be imposed by the CBR by decisions of the Supreme Court and the Council of State;]] [[Whereas the ASP has nevertheless proved to be an effective means of protecting other road users against hard- learners;]] [[having regard to the judgment of the Supreme Court and the Council of State concerning the failure to cooperate in the ASP, the driving licence was automatically declared invalid by the CBR for five years;]] [[Considering that although an invalidation of five to ten years is possible, the D.A. has adapted its criminal proceedings policy to the situation prior to the ASP;]] [[considers that this does not respond to better road safety and the sense of fairness;]] [[Calls on the Government to enter into a dialogue with the D.A. to find out why the criminal justice policy has been amended in this way and to ask the D.A. whether the criminal justice policy can be brought more into line with the situation before the rulings of the Supreme Court and the Council of State, namely the invalidation of the driving licence for five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the alcohol lock programme (hereinafter 'the ASP') can no longer be imposed by the CBR by decisions of the Supreme Court and the Council of State;]] [[Considers that the ASP has nevertheless proved to be an effective means of protecting other road users from hard drinking drivers;]] [[noting that an impact analysis has been carried out on the consequences of transferring the ASP to criminal law, which has not been explored under what conditions the ASP and the case-law could proceed with the imposition of the ASP;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the impact analysis to the question of whether and under what conditions the ASP can be included as a punishment in criminal law and to involve the Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice, and to inform the Court of its findings for the plenary debate on the ASP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Visser and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-517]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Visser and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-518]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u19	You no longer have speaking time, Mrs Visser, but Mrs van Tongeren has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u20	If you allow something new in a country, after which it can be seen that this results in a significant number of extra deaths and serious injuries, then you don't first go and see where that comes from. I am sure Mrs Visser agrees with me. Then you'll say, "We're gonna stop this new activity first." Then you will say: only when we are sure that it is safe will we perhaps re-enter it. I'm assuming the VVD agrees with me. Why don't we do that at 130 kilometers an hour? Table 4 in the Minister's letter clearly shows that the risk of a fatal accident on a road where 130 km/h may be driven is significantly higher than on the other roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u21	Mrs. Van Tongeren has Table 4 in front of her. I have table three here. I ask Mrs Van Tongeren what she is doing with the figures in Table 3. In 2014, 130 km/h were driven on the same roads as in 2015. At that time, the accident risk was much less. In Mrs Van Tongeren's reasoning, we should have left that 130 km/h. Now it's one year different and Mrs Van Tongeren immediately says: it's just that 130 km/h. So it should have been on the 130 km/h driving in 2014. Mrs Van Tongeren's reasoning is therefore wrong. I know she's very much against driving 130 km/h. I'll let you do that. But don't let her use this argument again. According to Mrs Van Tongeren we should only be able to drive 15 km/h or 19 km/h in the Netherlands, because then we would no longer have any dead people on the roads. Mrs van Tongeren, like me, should be concerned about those roads where 50 km/h, 80 km/h or 100 km/h can be driven, so the roads where there is an increase. However, it does not. It deliberately chooses to draw attention only to the roads where 130 km/h may be driven. Apparently, that's just a problem. It is not concerned about those roads where 50 km/h or 80 km/h can be driven. But when one drives an electric car, suddenly everything is allowed at GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u22	It is a pity that after all these debates, the VVD Group still does not have the position of GroenLinks. I won't explain that position any further today. We are concerned about all road deaths and serious injuries. One of the measures now being taken, under the leadership of the VVD, is to increase the speed limit on more and more sections of the road. It is evident that this causes more deaths and more serious injuries. However, the VVD continues with it. That's what I'm asking questions about. There is support for a motion calling for an ex-post investigation into how this is actually happening. The Minister has promised that she will not increase the speed limit until she is sure. She has promised that all the necessary measures will be taken and that there may be four or five additional deaths. There's a lot more now. At least you shouldn't let traffic run on even more sections of road 130 km/h. I find it extremely strange that the VVD simply says: well, what do we care, we'll see how many deaths there will be at the end of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u23	I can really get very angry about this, because Mrs Van Tongeren is actually doing it again. Mrs Van Tongeren only takes out the 130 kilometres of roads for the number of road deaths. She says everything comes through and just refuses to look at the whole thing. She refuses to look at where most people die. That is still on the municipal and provincial roads. Mrs Van Tongeren, you should be fighting with the entire Chamber to solve that problem. But you don't, because no, you only have one fight: against the car and at 130 km/h. That's okay, but you're gonna have to be clear about this. Then look at the whole thing and worry about those 50 and 80 kilometers. Because in your reasoning, we should actually reverse the speeds there. Now we're just gonna get the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u24	But, Mrs. Visser, may I ask you...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u25	On the 80 kilometers we had 145 deaths in 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u26	Mrs Visser, Mrs Visser, this is final...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u27	Yes, but Mrs Van Tongeren also had a rather long interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u28	Yes. That's right. And you've also responded extensively. Before we rewrite all the numbers...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u29	Mrs. Van Tongeren will do the same. She also refers to tables. I would just point out to Mrs Van Tongeren that the 80 km/h also showed a steep rise. In your reasoning, Mrs Van Tongeren, we should therefore also ban the 80 kilometres because there is an increase. This shows the curved reasoning of GroenLinks. I conclude with the question to the Minister whether, in the context of speed pedelecs and their transfer to the lane, she would like to carry out additional research into the consequences for traffic flow and road safety. The VVD doesn't like it. I don't have time to make a motion on that. That may still be possible on Thursday, but the question has already been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u30	The Minister has heard the question. The Minister appreciates a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u31	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Belhaj c.s. motion. in piece No. 509, traffic records. I am busy with various parties improving registration. I have also said something about this in general consultation. I will offer you a plan of action on this matter for Princess Day and therefore consider the motion to support policy. However, I must point out that the information will, of course, relate mainly to the place and the circumstances of the accidents. So that is different from the information on the cause of the accidents. For example, a head-tail collision can be an act, but it is sometimes difficult to determine whether it is caused by fatigue, alcohol consumption or distraction. You can't always see that. We can at least take more targeted measures on the basis of the information I mentioned. I come to the Van Tongeren motion on part No. 510. It calls for a halt to the roll-out of the 130 kilometres until there is more clarity about the accidents that occur there. With the other road managers I work together on a risk-driven approach. Also for highways I explore the possibility to pass on a more secure package. At the time we went through the speed increase, we had calculated what the potential consequences would be. On this basis, we have taken measures to prevent accidents resulting from faster driving. Think of a longer braking road, making longer exits on certain routes and you name it. We will continue "more safe" in a broad sense, not just for 130 kilometers. This policy will focus on one-sided accidents on all types of motorways. The roll-out to a 130 kilometer road will only take place if the safety requirements set by us are met. We state in the letter that, on the basis of a year, we cannot yet conclude that the increase in the number of accidents is due to the increase in speed or to other measures. Mrs Van Tongeren is based on Table 4, but Table 3 shows that things have changed in recent years. Moreover, most of these 130 roads have been introduced much earlier. In 2015, there was a peak in the number of accidents and, for example, in 2014 the number was much lower. So you have to look at it over the years. Then you can see if it really has anything to do with those 130 kilometers of roads. It also has to do with analysis. For every road that we pass at a speed of 130 kilometres per hour, we meet the requirements relating, among other things, to road safety. We invest in that. I would like to say once again that the information before you does not directly relate to speed increases and accidents. The increase in the number of accidents may also have another reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u32	If at least in one year there's been a significant number of more deaths, aren't you saying you're gonna stop that activity until you're sure that its introduction can happen safely? The Minister said that four to five deaths is the maximum number. I believe 31 people died. Shouldn't you say right now that you're gonna stop rolling out those roads until the moment we're so close that there's no more deaths, no matter what the cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u33	We have made an assessment, i.e. up to four to five more accidents as a result of the increase in speed. I now point out that, based on the year 2015, you cannot say that the additional number of accidents is due to the increase in speed. After all, in previous years you do not see this, while the speed increase has been introduced much earlier. In 2015 no roads were added and suddenly you see a peak. That is very strange, because the speed of those roads was the same in the years before. So you can't make that correlation. To give an example, there are also other accidents: someone who was under influence crossed the road and had an accident and people who were busy changing a tire that were hit by a car. You can't say on the basis of a fatal accident that this is because of speeding. It's often a combination of circumstances. Again, I think it's important to always keep an eye on that. I'm analyzing everything. I always give the Chamber full transparency. On this basis you cannot say that it is a result of 130 km/h, especially if you look at the other multiannual figures or at other roads. There is the same problem, but there has been no increase in speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u34	I assume that the Minister is not going to say that it will be safer by increasing speed. It's about people's lives. Even if only half of these people wouldn't die if the minister didn't increase speed, that would be worth it, wouldn't it? We are taking measures here and there that only save a few lives. What is the great national interest in allowing 130 km/h, when we now see that more people are really dying on those 130 km/h roads?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u35	Because I want to separate it from 130 km/h or 120 km/h or 100 km/h or 80 km/h. I think it is important that there are as few victims as possible in traffic. We must do everything we can to invest in safe roads at different speeds. Every road needs its own investment. There are provincial roads with a ditch next to them and with trees. They lead to quite different types of fatal accidents. What we do on the highways is take away all kinds of objects along the highway. We make sure the exits are long enough, that the road is wide enough and that the lighting is good enough. Perhaps even more important are new technologies such as intelligent transportation systems (ITS). I believe that this will also lead to a huge reduction in the number of accidents, because cars will respond much better to all situations. That is what we need to debate with each other, and that is what we need to do. I continue to invest in reducing the number of fatal accidents and the number of injuries in traffic, whether for roads at 80 km/h, 100 km/h, 120 km/h or 130 km/h. I therefore also advise against this motion, which focuses specifically on this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u36	The motion in part No. 510 has been dissuaded. I do not allow any interruptions on a motion which has not been tabled by the Interrupt himself, but I understand that Mr Van Helvert has a question on the motion in part No. 509, which was co-submitted by him. That's why I'm giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u37	The beginning of accident prevention is the search for its cause. The Minister has just said that she will send a plan to the Chamber on the matter, but that there are no reasons for this. I think that's exactly what we need. What actually happened in a particular accident? The Minister sees the motion as supporting policy, so she is not going to do more than she is now, but I think that is the specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u38	I didn't say that I wouldn't put any causes in it, but I did say that sometimes it would be difficult to figure out a cause. If someone dies as a result of an accident caused by his distraction, you can't always see it. Then it's very complex to judge if there was a slippery spot on the road or if I don't know what. Wherever possible, we will have that included in the registration, but it will not always be visible. From the description, which at least is in it, you can sometimes also derive a few things from it. If a certain alcohol smell comes from someone, you can also see something. Sometimes it will be possible and sometimes it will be complicated. That's what I'm trying to say. Wherever we can do it, we'll do it. The parties in the field who have to do it, such as the police or other aid workers, are also trying to describe this as well as possible. I'm just saying it won't always be 100% conclusive, because it's sometimes complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u39	Can we expect there to be any research in that plan? In America, very good research has been carried out into how many percent of cyclists call or appt, or otherwise engage in social media, and the risk of traffic. Can we expect the Minister to do something like this in that plan, for example with SWOV or any other institute that can carry out such investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u40	I am now working on several parties to improve registration. If there are good ideas in that area, we can always bring them in. With the help of continuous improvement there will be constant improvement, Over the years we may be able to see more and find out more. Then you might be able to get a little stick out of someone's blood a lot more than you can do right now. That's still important. I do not know the specific example you mention, so I cannot judge whether this is a good example. I believe, however, that constant improvement in registration is in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u41	We are, of course, very pleased that the Minister considers this important. However, we have heard noises that the police do not have time to register properly, either for the provincial roads or for the local roads. It seems to me that we are not just discussing the national roads and that the Minister can also say something about those noises. In fact, many accidents happen on the provincial roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u42	Mr President, it is remarkable that we have a whole debate on the previous motion, but it is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u43	The motion has been judged to support the policy, but it is a further clarification of what is intended by the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u44	Of course, I'm not talking about the police. I told her I think the motion is important and I'm taking her over. I am also in conversation with parties to make a plan of approach for a closing registration. The same Chamber also asks for the police to be deployed in all kinds of other places. You are all aware of the limited resources available to the police. So I can't guarantee now that the deployment of the local and provincial police will, of course, be the same everywhere. I'm trying to make a final plan with the parties. If I offer that to the Chamber, possibly together with my colleague from V and J, then the Chamber should ask me and see if the plan is conclusive enough in its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u45	I think that's a good time to continue the discussion. The Minister continues with the motion in part No. 511.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u46	In the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 511 is asked to improve the safety of slow traffic users in the inner city by introducing a regime in which motorised traffic is hosted. I'm dissuading the motion. I look together with other road managers at how I can support municipalities in taking road safety measures. Even if that's their own responsibility, I'm happy to do it with them. There's no deadline. I have a working group that is constantly working on this. However, I also think that municipalities should look at how they implement this. They can decide for themselves in which areas they allow motorised traffic to be guests, where they do not want to do so and whether they want to do so at all. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u47	I'm not asking the Minister to introduce this. I ask you to look together with road managers at what is possible for slow traffic participants, including introducing that motorised traffic is a guest. As the Minister explains, this is one of the issues that could be addressed in the working group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u48	Things like this are going to be dealt with, too. You could say that the motion is unnecessary. However, it is up to the municipalities themselves. They have their own power to choose different forms of improving road safety. Maybe they give the bike paths a different color or they put down more poles. Maybe they're preventing traffic or they're just saying that other traffic doesn't have access. So I do not see why this point needs to be specifically inserted. Mr Van Helvert's motion on item No. 512 focuses on using the mobile phone and the smartphone on the bike. I find that motion complex. I am in favour of having a very good campaign in that area. I am also working on a national campaign which, according to the evaluations, scores very well with regard to appendage in the car. I have launched bike mode together with telecom providers; by not tapping on the bike you save points for prices. However, that is another target group. These are young people and they are not really suited for the classic bob-campaigns we do on TV and along the highway. So we're scaling this up by, for example, organizing school battles with which you can win prizes at school level, because we understood that this is much more in line with how you reach the youth. In addition, I would like to extend and extend the agreement with telecom providers, both in terms of content and in terms of participating parties, such as telephone producers. Then it's about smartphone use in the car and on the bike. So it's not going to be the traditional bob campaign along the way, but I'm still scaling up. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I see her as a support for policy. If not, I'll have to discourage the motion because you won't reach the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u49	The motion also speaks of "comparable." Maybe that'll give us a lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u50	Yeah, that's why. I think the Minister interprets that well. It doesn't have to be a copy of the Bob campaign. The strength of the bob-campaign was that it was very long-lasting and that it was in combination with the enforcers, in the sense that they also pay attention to it. That combination was very strong. Of course, it has to be targeted at the target group. That's what I mean about the motion. If that requires a little paraphrasing, then that is not a point at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u51	That is why I felt it was important to clarify this point. You know me. As you know, I am very concerned about tapping on the bike and in the car. I think we all know how many times we're on that phone and what kind of risks there are if you don't pay attention to traffic for a while. Then I come to the motion on part No. 513 by Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Visser on the liability of cyclists. It calls on the government to investigate further the liability of cyclists by reckless app and call behaviour and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I will ask the Association of Insurance Companies to discuss with me how cyclists' liability is handled by reckless app and bicycle behaviour and will inform the Chamber accordingly. So I can take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u52	Does any of the Members object to taking over this motion? I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u53	Then I come to Mr Hoogland's motion on item No. 514 about moustache bikes. He has rightly challenged me by saying: I have made up my own plans and you did not like them, so tell me how you are going to do it. I am still implementing the commitment I have already made, in the sense that I, together with RAI and BOVAG, am looking at further possibilities to combat those staged moustache bikes. I have here that I am going to inform your Chamber at the end of this year, but that is too late, because the motion calls for this to be done for the budget debate I and M. I'm gonna make it. This is not possible in the budget because it has already been tabled, but I will come up with an action plan for the budget debate I and M. I therefore consider the motion to support policy. In Mr Smaling's motion to item No. 515 I am asked to make it possible for users of charging points to use facilities such as a toilet, wifi and a cup of coffee with crockery. Since the end of 2011, energy charging points have been used as a basic provision for care facilities on the national roads. 220 places of care have been made available to the market and 140 have now been granted. By three market players, 60 treatment/loading stations have already been realized. Existing service stations may also offer electric charging. There are now thirteen pump holders/road restaurants that offer this service. So in total, they're 73 places. Through the concessions under the Petrol Act, the right to sell sandwiches, for example, has been granted to the petrol pump operators. This led to a lawsuit that I'm waiting to hear from. I understand that there will be a general consultation on electric driving on 13 October. Maybe we'll have a little more information. I ask the Chamber not to put the motion to the vote until then, as far as I can put that question to the Chamber. I have no objection to the fact that some can be sold at charging points, but this can only be done within the concessions we have now. That's what a lawsuit is about now. It's a difficult construction. How's that going, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u54	You can always ask the petitioner if he is prepared to hold the motion. I see that Mr Smaling is already coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u55	I would advise against the motion if it were put to the vote immediately. If the motion is held, we can discuss it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u56	First of all, I would like to ask the Minister whether she also thinks that the playing field of the entire concession has changed over time. The initial sign-in to those possibilities is not the same a year later. In other words, the suppliers of electrical equipment are now falling behind the classic suppliers and the classic petrol pumps. I just want that fair playing field back. That's not even part of the lawsuit. We can still see if we have to wait, but the key question is: did this just go as originally intended? If you have to wait until 2024 now, because that concession is going to take so long before you can facilitate those electric providers, then we're not gonna get energy agreements and stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u57	That's what I'm wondering. Such a charging station is always near a gas station. You have to load your car and you then have nearby those facilities like a toilet, wifi and the cup of coffee with croket, as it is described in the motion. I think that is a nasty combination, by the way. Those facilities are therefore nearby. So it's not like people are sitting there starving while they're loading. The device is just not attached to the fast charging station itself. For the providers this is a less attractive combination, because you often earn your money with the products. Mr Smaling must also look on the other side. When all these concessions were granted, the person who paid the highest price received the concession. Then you can't say halfway: we're breaking open the concession and we're leaving a competitor on your property now. That's not the way it's supposed to be. I'm not gonna make a statement about the way I want to go right now. There's a lawsuit going on right now. We always use the rule that we do not go into it in more detail during a trial. I would like to discourage the motion for now, but Mr Smaling can also hold the motion until there is more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u58	I'll think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u59	Before the vote, we will hear whether the motion will be put to the vote or whether it will be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u60	I should like to answer Mr Madlener's question. He asked whether the 80 km zones could be abolished. He believes that there are too many negative environmental impacts. These 80 km zones are designed to improve air quality around the ring roads and also bring them within the standards. It is true that driving at a speed of 80 km/h causes traffic jams in some places and that this also causes more emissions. This played with Rotterdam and Amsterdam. At the same time, however, we have also seen that a speed increase that had been achieved had to be reduced in order to remain within the air quality requirements. I've always said, "Wherever I can, I'll do it; where I can't, I'll make sure the speed is reduced." You'll have to be both ways on fair. So that's what we've done. It also means less noise nuisance. A lower speed is also safer for many entry and exit traffic. So where it is possible from the point of view of environment and safety, I apply a higher speed. But where I can't, I don't. I am not going to abolish all 80 kilometres of roads in advance. In the motion in part No. 516 by Mr Madlener says "whereas the Netherlands is a real cycling country;" That's a whole new one from the PVV's mouth! He also indicated that he wanted to stimulate the electric bicycle and asked the government not to introduce a helmet and registration requirement for electric bicycles with a speed of up to 40 km/h. European regulations for motor vehicles require me to regulate speed pedelecs, as for mopeds and mopeds. The speed pedal can reach speeds of up to 45 km/h. So it's very complex. It is intended for 25 km/h, but can also reach 45 km/h. So we're gonna have to do something with it. It is therefore unsafe, in addition to the obligation not to carry out registration and helmet requirements. I therefore reject this motion by Mr Madlener. I come to Mrs Visser's and Mr Van Helvert's motion for a resolution. 517 on criminal justice policy. The Government is invited to discuss with the D.A. the reasons why the criminal law policy has been amended and to consider whether the criminal law policy can be brought into line with the situation prior to the ruling of the Supreme Court and the Council of State on the ASP, namely the invalidation of the driving licence for five years. Following the removal of the possibility of imposing an alcohol lock programme, the D.A. adapted the criminal justice policy to what it was like before the introduction of the ASP. When formulating a penalty requirement, it is important that it is proportionate, because otherwise the judges do not go along with it and still impose a lower penalty. That is why, on behalf of my colleague in the field of security and justice, I advise against this motion. I can say more about it, Mr President, but I see there is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u61	The situation goes back to the time for the alcohol lock program, but at the time of the alcohol lock program you could lose your license for five years. That was proportional then if you didn't participate in the alcohol lock program or if you thought at the time of its implementation: I've had enough and I quit. How does the Minister assess the fact that the situation prior to the alcohol lock programme is being taken back? We didn't introduce the alcohol lock program for nothing in conjunction with a five-year driving waiver if you don't cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u62	Basically, an alcohol lock program was always two years. If you didn't want to cooperate, we said: apparently you don't want to improve your life and become alcohol-free. Of course, that's what an alcohol lock program is all about: that shows you can drive alcohol-free for a long time. In that case, we choose five years, because we cannot say with certainty that someone will go into traffic without alcohol. When the program was still criminal, there was a lower penalty requirement. An alcohol lock program isn't a punishment either. It is an educational measure, as we call it. The same applies to the denial of driving rights. In criminal law, all kinds of proportions have been attributed to different offences. I know that there is currently an investigation into the criminalisation of serious traffic cases. On this basis, the prosecution could assess whether the criminal proceedings of the prosecution should be amended and whether such elements would require a heavier penalty. When the ASP was abolished, it's just backtracking to the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u63	That is why we have tabled this motion. My question to the government is mostly to have a conversation. Formally, the Court is not about the criminal procedure directives, but we note a number of things. We find it remarkable that this step has been taken. The question for the government is to talk to the Public Prosecutor's Office to see if, in view of the experience gained over the past five years, we have not put this in place for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u64	I am now speaking on behalf of the Minister for Security and Justice. I think a five-year denial is proportionally very heavy. The Minister of Justice is already considering whether the penalty measurement in serious traffic cases is still proportionate. I think he will also bear in mind the wish of the Chamber for a somewhat heavier commitment. However, the difference between seven months and five years is enormous. That is the reason why the motion, which deals with declaring the driving licence invalid for five years and asking to discuss it, is not recommended. I'm gonna stick with that. In their motion in part No. 518 Ms Visser and Mr Van Helvert asked the government to carry out an impact analysis on whether and under what conditions the ASP could be included as a punishment in criminal law, as well as to involve the public prosecutor and the judiciary. I consider this motion to be a policy support, because the public prosecutor and the judiciary are already involved in the impact analysis for placing the alcohol lock in criminal law. The analysis shows that much less ASPs will be imposed and that the costs of the ASPs cannot be borne by the offender. For this reason, we believe that the inclusion of the ASP in criminal law does not provide sufficient added value. But we can discuss the different possibilities and the form in which it might be possible. I have indicated in advance the limitations on which this is based, because it must ultimately be an affordable instrument, regardless of whether the costs are borne by the judicial chain or by the individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u65	The motion is considered to support the policy, but Mrs Visser still has a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u66	The answer to our questions indicated that this was deliberately not chosen because it was expected that the alcohol lock programme would not be included in criminal law. In accordance with the ruling of the Supreme Court and the Council of State, we call on the Government to reconsider whether the alcohol lock programme can be retained in criminal law, with the conditions indicated by the Minister, and to consult the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u67	I think I just said that. Mrs Visser asked another question about the supplementary investigation concerning speed pedelec, and she threatened at that point with a motion that is still hanging over my head. An investigation has already been carried out in 2014. You could do that again, but that research will have to take place in a laboratory setting, because in the next three months there will be no speed pedelecs on the public road. That is one of the possibilities, but it does not correspond to the real test that Mrs Visser wants. Another possibility is that from January onwards you will do a three-month study, but then it is only a question of whether there are enough speed pedelecs on the road to test. We could then inform the Chamber about this in April and we can therefore deal with the AMvB immediately. I understand very well why Mrs Visser wants this, but the disadvantage of this is that she has not thought about it. In this way you are creating a distinction between two groups of speed pedelecs: the old one on the bike path and the new one on the road from January onwards. If you don't add the old pedelecs to the new group via the AMvB, you'll get two types of speed pedelecs, while this distinction is not clear to the users and to the other people on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u68	The point is that you suddenly drive as a cyclist on a 50 kilometer road between all kinds of cars. I think both sides are uncomfortable about that. We have also discussed this extensively during the AO. The Minister referred to a study carried out in 2014, but that was a kind of comparative literature study with Germany. There is now a new report by Grontmij that was published early this year and it actually contains the opposite of what is in the 2014 study. On the basis of these two opposite investigations and the fact that Belgium has opted for a completely different model, I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to side-step these two investigations and also whether Belgium's choice could also be a solution to the Dutch situation. After all, we do not yet see this situation entirely in front of us, and we think it is actually irresponsible to let everyone drive between cars without knowing what this means for road safety and the flow of traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u69	Do I understand that Mrs Visser is actually asking me to put the various investigations together over the next three months and to examine the possible gaps through lab tests, to the extent that we can, and to postpone the entry into force of the AMvB by a few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u70	Yes. On top of that, I want to look at the consequences for traffic flow and road safety, not only for the cyclist and the cycle path but for the road in total. I don't think there's been enough research on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u71	I think it will be complex to find and do this in the very short term. It will also be complex to have two different types of speed pedelecs on the street. I can try to compare reports, but I do not know whether that will give the clarity that Mrs Visser is looking for. I will continue the preparation of the AMvB, so that there will soon be an equal position. Then we will see if we can reach an agreement in the next two days, before Mrs Visser holds the motion over my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-05-tweedekamer-31.u72	The vote on the motions will take place at the final vote on Thursday.
