ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice to the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Verhoeven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. During the debate we have now concluded, we have talked about many things. A lot has been said about the EU-US Privacy Shield. D66, like European privacy watchdogs, would have liked the Court of Justice to have examined the shelf life of the privacy shield in advance, but that did not happen. We'll see how long that deal lasts. To be continued. More importantly, I would like clarification from the cabinet about the fact that we have sent a letter to the cabinet saying: no backdoors in encryption software. In fact, the deal is that we strengthen our encryption for our security. How can the Prime Minister, during the General Political Reviews in this Chamber, literally say that encryption can be broken? How can the D.A. keep asking for access to encrypted data and the head of the General Intelligence and Security Service is threatening attacks if he doesn't get access to our messages? How is it that Germany and France want to undermine the end-to-end encryption? We cannot, as citizens, have to surrender our freedom on the false pretext that this will stop terrorists. So I'd like to recheck our meeting with the Cabinet on this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that encryption of Internet traffic is essential for our security, e.g. for internet banking, sending messages or securing business secrets;]] [[whereas weakening encryption not only provides access to data of all users, but also to foreign powers and criminals, thereby making the Internet and digital communications unsafe for all citizens and businesses;]] [[calls on the Government to fully maintain last January's position on the non-disturbance of encryption software;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to actively promote this position internationally and within the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u3	Then I'm filing another motion on data leaks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas too often data leaks occur in public and semi-public institutions which have sensitive information from citizens;]] [[calls on the Government, the National Cyber Security Centre, to play an active role in data security in the public and semi-public sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u4	Finally, I would like to say a few words about private data. There are dozens of violations of privacy in the government. Private information of citizens is understood or even traded, De Telegraaf reported. That is why I ask the Minister what he will do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u5	Mr. Chairman. We are now here almost every week talking about privacy. It is that last week it was Princess Day, but two weeks ago I also asked oral questions to the Minister about the data deal between WhatsApp and Facebook. Today there is a lot to be done about this in connection with a German ruling. In the meantime, I have asked written questions about this. In this follow-up to the general consultation, I would like to ask the Minister about the state of play of the commitment he made at the time, namely that there will be an independent analysis of the capacity to maintain and safeguard our privacy. There's a lot of new techniques coming at us. There's a Data Protection Regulation coming up. We have also received a letter on this, but I would like to hear from the Minister about the latest state of the reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u6	Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the EU-US Privacy Shield, my group asked questions about Article 10 dealing with model contracts. At that time, the Minister told me that he would ask his colleague for the existence of these model contracts in his contacts with VNO-NCW, SMEs-Netherlands, Retailers Netherlands and the other business associations, so that they can do so themselves within their own constituency. At the time, the Minister indicated that he would take his coordinating role fully into account and would also highlight this point in his contacts with these organisations. My logical question is therefore that I would like to hear from the Minister about the progress of the model contracts. Earlier, I asked questions about the notice that the D.A. wants access to encrypted data. Unfortunately, I have not yet been able to receive the answers to these questions, but in the light of this I have tabled the motion, together with my colleague from D66, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u7	Two motions have been tabled. I note that the Minister would like a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u8	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to those Members who have spoken and asked questions. First of all, I would like to confirm once again that the protection of the privacy of our citizens is a priority in the whole cabinet. I myself am a coordinating ruler in this context, but that does not mean that I have taken over the responsibility of individual ministers. I always look with the individual ministers when it comes to privacy or privacy issues. The Verhoeven/Oosenbrug motion on piece No. 105 calls on the government to confirm that the government's position is still the government's position. I think it is good in itself to always ask what the government position is. I can confirm to Mr Verhoeven that the government position is still the government position. I can leave the vote on the motion for a resolution to the Chamber, but I could also imagine that Members of the Chamber would wonder, if the government's position is the government's position, why a motion should then be tabled to confirm that position once again. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The second motion, Mr Verhoeven, in part No. 106 the government calls on the National Cyber Security Centre to play an active role in data security in the public and semi-public sector. This issue has not been discussed in general consultation, so we have not been able to discuss the role of the NCSC. I propose that the votes next Tuesday be sent a short letter to the Chamber indicating the role of the National Cyber Security Centre. If that letter leads to the observation that this is also the intention of the Chamber, I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. If that is not the case, I am happy to hear it and I will give the Chamber a different opinion in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u9	Thank you for the Minister's equestrian response to both motions. I shall leave the first one to the vote because I believe that enough has happened in recent weeks to ask whether the cabinet position is still the cabinet position in this case. The Minister says: Judge Chamber. Thanks for that, but I'm gonna leave the motion. We do not do that every week, but in this case we do. The Minister is quite right that the subject of the second motion was not raised during the AA. It's nice to have him send a letter. If that letter is reassuring, I will be happy to withdraw that other motion immediately, according to the sportsmanship rules of this house. Thank you for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u10	I think this is a good way to work together. Mr Verhoeven also asked a question about the handling of personal data. In general terms, the marketing of personal data is permitted, as Mr Verhoeven knows. In fact, it is an industry that is not exposed to any importance in our economy. But this must always be done on the basis of existing legislation and regulations. This will be monitored by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Then I come to the questions that Mr Van Wijngaarden asked in the follow-up. What's the status of the inventory? That inventory is being made and will be ready next year, so that it can be included in the 2018 budget, as I promised Mr Van Wijngaarden earlier. Mrs Oosenbrug asked about the model contracts. I can inform her that we have taken action together with the Minister for Economic Affairs. We have discussed this with the European Commission. That's what I reported in the letter to the Chamber. The Commission thought it was a very good idea to put this into practice. Thank you to Mrs Oosenbrug for putting us on that trail. This will be taken into account by the European Commission in the first evaluation of the Privacy Shield and will then have a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-21.u11	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
