ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u1	We need the applicant's second term. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the second-term contribution by my fellow Members. I look back at a beautiful, very substantive debate on a subject that is not always easy. We have talked about this for the last 20 to 25 years, each time we have mentioned the concerns, concerns on the islands and in the Netherlands. Yet every time we see this struggle about how we get out. Every time we take steps. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that we promise something every time, without getting any further. I think we may have already taken a step in this debate. I can count too, but I sincerely hope that my bill will still find a place in the future. I believe in this important legislative proposal and in its objective. The bill can make the Kingdom better and more beautiful, including the cooperation between the different parts of the country. Of course, we all have our own thoughts about that. But this bill also gives a glimpse into the future of the Kingdom, if we do nothing. Then the problems will only get bigger. Something must be done. Mr Sjoerdsma indicated that the bill would go against the treaties legally. In the first term, I said that the Statute is not a cafeteria model. The Statute applies to all countries within the Kingdom and is the same for all countries. Legally, all countries have to abide by the same conventions. The fact that in the end, if you want to name the target, you have another objective that needs to be seriously substantiated, and that you need to demonstrate proportionality is another matter. But it cannot be that we in the Kingdom are calling very loudly that it is legally incorrect and unsubstantiated, because then you will automatically say something about the regulation on the three islands. Is the bill proportionate? When is something proportional, the next question is. Is the arrangement necessary? Is there anything else possible? I believe that a regulation is necessary to limit crime. It's not gonna happen on its own. It is often a starting problem on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. If we don't make a deal for that, we won't be able to control it. How big is the problem? I think it is a serious problem, which has been recognised by all colleagues. The question is what impact this problem has on society. It's about small numbers, with a big impact. Were there any other solutions? Then I'll look at the last 25 years and the amount of energy we've put in it to deal with problems. All kinds of projects have been organised, in the Netherlands and on the islands. I also mention administrative consultation and national arrangements, but also the amount of money. And I can't. As far as I am concerned, this is a reason to say that the scheme is proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u3	That is also a reason for Mrs Gesthuizen to put in place an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u4	Perhaps it is a bit out of order, but are the joint raising of various groups in this Chamber actually taking steps when it comes to solving the problems on the islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u5	This is entrapment. Absolutely. But I see a relapse coming. That's what I'm worried about, especially when it comes to Curaçao. At St Maarten two parties are now in power, and I am deeply concerned about the next Minister of Justice. I heard Mr Duncan's name. Again, I am very concerned about that. I am afraid that the climate in the Kingdom will only get worse after the elections on both Curaçao and Saint Martin, because it will strengthen relations. However, I hope that prediction does not come true. If we make progress, I'm very happy about it. Curaçao's finances are in order and people are willing to cooperate because they understand that something has to happen. But I'm about to see a relapse. We can wait for that, but we can also say: let's stand here now. The regulations are identical to what Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin have. I'm not asking anymore. People are welcome, provided they meet the requirements. They won't notice. They can then continue after five years, without noticing that something has happened. In the meantime, however, we have a point of contact, if there is serious crime, which sometimes originates on the islands themselves. I don't want a supply. I understand that this doesn't solve the problem in the Netherlands, but when I land, I'm mopping with the crane open and that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr Bosman says he sees a relapse coming. Does he refer to current and future developments on the various islands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u7	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr Bosman continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr Sjoerdsma indicated that enforcement would be a sort of tolerance policy. He asked if we're gonna arrest people on the street. I can reassure Mr Sjoerdsma and everyone. In principle, this is the same interpretation as the interpretation given to the Alien Law. I don't think anyone can say that based on that, we're working on a large force on the street. It's not general enforcement. I dare even say, as I said earlier, that it's very surgical. It's only when you're in violation that you get on the retina and you're basically up. I think that's the best solution. Only when the problem is severe can you use the last resort. Everyone needs to understand that. There may be eviction, but that can only be done in the form of an order measure in the event of a serious violation of the legal order. It is only at that time that there can be eviction. I come to the fundamental point that was made by both Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Gesthuizen, namely the second-class citizens. I regret that Mr Sjoerdsma is not here. I think this is a special point. If it is a matter of principle for Mr Sjoerdsma or others, you cannot, of course, discuss whether anything is proportionate. If it is a matter of principle that there should not be any other treatment, you can never do a review. You can never make legislation. In fact, you can't even make a rich law. If you say that there should be no difference in treatment, that is a point of principle and can never, unless you say that it is not very principled. Once again, it is a pity that Mr Sjoerdsma is not here. The essence is that the Dutch are not from the Netherlands, but from the Kingdom. Someone on Aruba, Curaçao or Sint-Maarten has exactly the same passport as someone in the Netherlands. The Dutchmanship belongs to all of us. If we think, in principle, that the Dutch are indivisible, this also applies to Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. You can't say: I'm very principled, but if it doesn't apply to the small islands, I get it. If we do not want to make that distinction in the Netherlands, which is crucial for everyone, you must also go along with it. Then you must also have courage and say: then it also applies to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Otherwise we have two types of Dutchmanship: a Caribbean Dutchmanship and a European Dutchmanship. That's not supposed to happen, is it? That is precisely what we all do not want. I would once again like to thank my fellow Members for the intensive debate, for the clarification and for the opportunity for clarification on my part. I hope that colleagues will give serious thought to it, so that we can see if there is still a chance to mean something for the future of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u10	The most important point that Mr Bosman raises in defence of this law is that it can be done legally because the islands have a similar arrangement. But the question of whether it can be legally depends on the justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u11	A quick question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u12	You can't separate that from each other. You can't say it's always allowed, and the justifications come after that. These justifications are very different when it comes to the islands than when it comes to the European Netherlands. We have all kinds of arrangements aimed at specific areas in the Netherlands. The Wadden Islands have set-up requirements. The Rotterdam Act also lays down requirements for establishment in a certain way. We know this phenomenon, but not a law as you are proposing. Those serious justifications which you must put forward for them are lacking in your speech. You put everything forward as justification for this law, from election results to possible ministers of justice to possible prime ministers. You even mention things that you think are in the culture, but you do not come up with those serious justifications that are legally necessary to get through such a law. Can you explain what these justifications are, so that they are also part of the report of the debate on this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u13	The justification is, in my opinion, the proportionality, by which you indicate: was there another possibility? I fully agree with Mr Van Laar that these are legally equal pathways. I wasn't bathing or condescending about what's important to come to another judgment when it comes to another country. I think I take that very seriously. I think that is essential. That is the essence of my speech: we are different countries. Legally it has to be equal, because we are in the treaties. I am glad that Mr Van Laar recognizes that as well. The countries are equal. There is no other way within the Statute. They're equal shapes and you have to meet them, but the ground on which you want something is another. Besides, you have to have a serious story. I think that's proportionality. I turned it in. You can disagree on that, but I think that's the core of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u14	The Council of State, the Human Rights College and the Meijers Commission have just said that this kite does not stand up for proportionality, that the means are far too great for the purpose, for what you want to fight. Even Ocan has written in an opinion document that the difference between a law that applies to everyone and a law that only applies to people with a criminal record or people who do not have a diploma is a relevant distinction for them. All these bodies also indicate that, including the Council of State. However, you choose not to make proportionality more appropriate, but to maintain this proposal. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u15	'Cause I'm looking through it anyway. I'm looking forward to the future. I really want to get out of that state law. There's no point in solving the problem, because then we'll be keeping this law alone forever. I will be very honest: that is not a solution forever. For that, I just need Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. I have to have dinner with those people. I have to have that conversation. I don't want it any other way either. If I kept a completely different story, I would then have to say to the directors of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten at the table: you do have a nice LTU (Land Regulations Admission and Expulsion), but this one is better. I don't want to. I want to achieve an equal level of conversation. I'm saying, guys, let's put them together; this is what's here. We don't have to argue about that for too long, because then you get that one is different from the other. Which one do you have to choose? No, we're not gonna choose. We're gonna start the conversation. The pieces are there, and we're gonna finish the conversation. It may well come out that we are going to differentiate in that state law, that we are going to reduce, improve, enlarge or whatever, but if I start the conversation with a different story than what Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin have, then I already know that there is a difference. That's also the discussion, including about the state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Van Laar, a brief final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u17	So what Mr Bosman wants is not possible. The justifications of this law should be different from those of those schemes. Consequently, this law cannot be applied because there are no justifications. A law is not an opening move for further negotiations. A law is a law. If we vote in favour of this law, we will simply introduce a law that will apply in the Netherlands. It's not an opening offer for other negotiations. That's the problem with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'm sorry about this. Mr Van Laar is also a spokesperson for Kingdom relations. Of course we're talking about a Dutch law here. Of course we are talking about a Dutch problem and of course we are talking about a Dutch solution, but I think it is very shortsighted to limit this to only the Netherlands. It is precisely the intention to regulate this within the Kingdom. This is a result of the Statute, of agreements we have made with all the countries. It's too crazy for words not to use that, just to make a Dutch law and "we can see it further"? Government is also forward-looking, also with respect to the islands of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. There is a great deal of blame for me, but I am making a serious attempt to still put that hand out, to keep the door open and to start the conversation. That door stays open, always. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Bosman. Then, of course, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice will be here as an advisor. I do not believe that questions have been put to him in earlier terms. I ask the Secretary of State if he needs to speak. I see him shaking no. This will put an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-28-tweedekamer-7.u20	This bill will be voted on next Tuesday.
