ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Atrial fibrillation is generally an old-age disease. It's nothing to worry about, the doctor said. Eventually, there was an operation. Complications were not expected. But Hans Westerweel's operating report reads like a horror story. Along with 141 others, he was a guinea pig for a new medical device between 2005 and 2007, without knowing it himself. So he and another patient went wrong. A new surgical tool is easy to market in Europe. Once you have the so-called CE hallmark, you can get started. However, that label does not say anything about the product or its quality. Just think of the turnips that were approved as pelvic floor mats. In Europe, there are no years of clinical trials such as those carried out in America. That's risky. I am surprised that patients are not always informed that they are part of an experimental procedure. When you compare that to new drugs, you also see a world of difference. New medicines are extensively tested for operation and safety. A special committee should also approve the study with people. Then the patient will be asked if he agrees to the experiment. However, we do not do this with medical implants and devices. You can't just do that, can you? Does the Minister agree with D66 that new developments in surgery should also be tested, that patients should give their own consent to an experimental procedure and that a committee should consider whether it is justified to do so at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is sad what happened to the patients mentioned in the article. Operations at the heart are profound and not without risks. When I read how it's happened to some patients, I don't get a good feeling about it. Patients should be able to be confident that they receive all the information that is relevant to them, both in care and in scientific research. It is essential in our legislation that people do not participate in a scientific study without written consent if it falls within the framework of the law. They must be properly informed. In this case, the central question is whether the actions carried out in the Erasmus MC can be regarded as regular care and whether there was also medical and scientific research. This investigation was completed about nine years ago. It's been a while, so the facts just need to be straightened out. It is clear that a balloon catheter was used, that this device had a CE marking for the purpose in question and that it was therefore admitted to the market. If the doctors in the case in advance had the intention to examine the effectiveness and safety of that device, it can be assumed that there was not only regular care but also a medical scientific examination to be carried out on the basis of the law. For this, written consent is required. And now the central question, namely whether the actions of Erasmus MC can be regarded as regular care or as medical scientific research. This question cannot now be answered by the Health Inspectorate. In order to do this, it needs additional information. It has therefore contacted the Management Board of the Erasmus MC directly and will assess the need for further research upon receipt of that additional information. I come to the difference between the United States and the European Union. RIVM has recently published a report comparing the requirements of the European system with those of the United States. The conclusions of that study show that the US system does not lead to safer products. I think it is important that we tighten up the law, no matter what Mrs Dijkstra says. During the Dutch Presidency, an agreement was reached on the legislation on CE marking of medical products. These new rules will make the requirements of the CE marking more stringent: stricter requirements are imposed on clinical research and on market authorisation performance studies. There will be more clinical expertise throughout the system and more attention will be paid to the protection of subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	It is a good thing that the Minister states that stricter rules are laid down, but it cannot really be that patient safety is at stake, which is sometimes said of surgical exceptionism: the idea that new means are justified in surgery, take an exceptional position in research, because of its unique character. Sometimes new cases are introduced gradually. I understand from the Minister that IGZ is watching that. However, if you read the reactions of the various cardiologists who have contributed to this, you will see that it did not go well. It must be the case that we must intervene in order to devise a different system for the proper testing of medical devices, as well as medicines. This can be done, for example, by having the College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products evaluate new devices. Moreover, it is very difficult to get research money for evaluation of and innovation in surgery. For that, ZonMw could develop special programs. Is the Minister prepared to cooperate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	I think it is very important to stress that regulations on medical scientific research also apply to recently registered devices. So it's not like something's just been registered, that this doesn't fall under regular care and that I'm a surgeon and say that I can just apply it because it's registered. Then it is still scientific research and therefore not regular care. So I think we should be very clear. This is a case of 2005, so it's from 11 years ago. Looking back with those glasses, I say that the rules we have laid down in the law apply. I don't want to take anything off of that. I think it is important for the inspection to assess the information that is now coming out, but I would also like to give her time to do so. After all, she does not have everything ready when it comes to something that happened eleven years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	I still can't hear the Minister say we have to do it differently. She is talking about the CE mark at European level, but the question is this: if you are investigating new medical devices, shouldn't this be done in the same way, so how we look at new medicines? I would also very much like to know from the Minister whether she thinks that, for example, the College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products could do so or whether she would like to set up another committee to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	So when you do research with new medical devices, you don't use regular care. So that's under investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, Mrs. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	I didn't ask the Minister. The discussion is about whether or not there was research, but I would ask whether you should, by definition, always have new devices tested and evaluated in a different way or in the same way as new medicines by a committee or, for example, by the College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	We do not know the systems we have with the medicines, but we agree on them. We have also had various debates about the fact that we consider the way in which we have dealt with them to be inadequate. You already referred to the neat ones. They have been an enormous incentive to put pressure on the new regulations that we are getting from Europe during the European Presidency and which we are therefore going to transpose into Dutch legislation. This new regulation is much stricter than the current one. Clinical research plays a much more important role in this. Monitoring and authorisation are much more strictly regulated. More attention is paid to the protection of subjects participating in a clinical trial. In short, we were able to complete these regulations in our Presidency after years of delay. At the end of this year, this regulation will be adopted and then we will also transpose it into law and regulation in the Netherlands. This means that we are simply going to regulate this much more strictly than we have so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	People have had surgery. This has led to a scientific publication and that has led to acceptance of the cryoballon. I think that is enough for the inspection to say: we are not just looking at this, but are going to do real research. After all, these people were actually subjects. This led to a scientific publication and acceptance of this medicine. By the way, people have become rich; we have been able to read that too. So the Minister should not just have the inspection look at this, but should actually investigate it. The second question is, of course, about possible conflicts of interest. We know that the manufacturer of the cryoballon had close ties with the surgeons who performed these operations. We know that this manufacturer has become rich as a result of that publication. Is there a favor here? In other words, is there a conflict of interest here? I would urge the Minister simply to have the inspection examine this and to have the element of conflict of interest play an important role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	The inspection is an independent supervisor, who supervises whether this is going well in the Netherlands. She has contacted the board of the Erasmus MC and is independent of this. I'm not gonna sit in the middle of that. I will pass on to the inspection Mrs Leijten's supplementary question as to whether the inspection can and will take that aspect with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	Patients should be able to trust that they not only have good tools, but also be well informed about their treatment. I heard the Minister say that we are looking at stricter legislation and enforcement on the safety of devices, but the issue of informing patients remains. We already have informed consent in the law, but patients do not appear to be well informed here, perhaps despite good intentions. We can see that in several cases. That has to do with a cultural problem: how much time do you take for your patients and how seriously do you take them? In what way can the Minister say that this is better, not only in this case, but also in a broader sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think it is crucial that people receive good information, for example when they are treated with a new methodology that has not proven itself. That is also subject to strict rules. That is also important in this case, which makes me okay with the inspection as a supervisor diving into this: did that happen? If that is not the case, then the inspection as a supervisory authority is also important. After all, there is no obligation in our legislation: patients should be properly informed in all cases, especially if there is a method that is not regular care.
