ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court. I would also like to welcome the students from Uden and Zoetermeer who are sitting in the public gallery. They have an important task, namely to review the annual reports of the Ministries of Health, Welfare and Sport, of Education, Culture and Science and of Social Affairs and Employment. I understand they've been given criminal service.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	The questions they have will be involved in the debate in the Chamber. I hope they make a bit of parliamentary history. I wish them every success. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	Madam President. Today we look back on 2015, the year in which the Dutch economy has gained further strength. There are still too many unemployed, but at the same time there have never been so many jobs in the Netherlands as in 2015. There were still mortgages under water, but the housing market is picking up again. While government debt is greater than desirable, it fell for the first time since 2006. If you focus the viewer only on the development of the Dutch economy, the good news prevails, but 2015 was also the year of the terrorist attacks in Paris, which caused a lot of uncertainty and insecurity. It was also the year when more and more people fled to our part of the world to escape violence and chaos in their own country. That too had financial implications. The cabinet added 646 million for the reception of 60,000 refugees who came to our country. In addition, last year the cabinet decided to make an additional 250 million structurally available for security in order to ensure our country's security even better. In a very different way, the safety of Groningen is at stake. The gas from Groningen has contributed to the prosperity of our entire country for many years. Now that many Groningers suffer material damage, the cabinet wants to compensate for this. The cabinet raised 1.2 billion euros for this. Due to the reduced gas extraction and the lower gas price, more than 4 billion euros came in less than we expected at the start of the cabinet for 2015. The cabinet has therefore made extra money available for a number of unavoidable expenditures, without losing public finances. The budget deficit is EUR 2.2 billion less than we expected. This leads us to the path of the coalition agreement. Government debt fell by 10 billion, to 442 billion euros. In the 2015 Millions Note, which appeared at the end of 2014, we expected a 70% government debt; that was ultimately 65%. Public finances do not yet have the top condition of Daphne Schippers, when she became world champion last year. It takes time to reach that level, but all in all, the 2015 annual report shows the results of the difficult measures taken in recent years. They were needed to restore a healthy economy and sustainable public finances in the Netherlands. Economic growth was partly due to exports, which increased by 4.2% compared to 2014. Entrepreneurs expanded to meet demand at home and abroad. As a result, business investment increased by 8.4%. That's 4 percentage points more than a year earlier. Purchasing power increased by 1%. As a result, consumption expenditure increased by 1.6%. Overall, the economy has grown by 2% despite lower gas revenues. At the end of 2013, the Dutch Bank predicted a growth of less than 1% for 2015 and a deficit of 3.1%. This shows once again that it is difficult to make an estimate for a somewhat longer period of time. The results of 2015 show that firm policy pays off. The cabinet has consistently maintained the line that was put in place in 2012: orderly, fair sharing and reform of public finances in order to grow the economy. We have achieved a great deal in that regard. Public finances are moving in the right direction. The AOW is guaranteed, also for future generations. We're back in control of the cost of care. The housing market is in the elevator. Unemployment is falling. On Accountability Day we also always examine the financial management of the Empire. Expenditure was generally controlled and, as in previous years, the legality of expenditure, liabilities and revenue was well above the 99% standard. 2015 was also a good year in that respect. Finally, Madam President. At the beginning of this year there was some confusion as to whether Accountability Day still existed. I admit that we were partly guilty of this, not the Court of Auditors. Of course, this important day still exists, albeit that you have brought forward the ceremony one time, at my request, some hours, for which I thank you very much. It's the third Wednesday in May. Arno Visser, the new president of the Court of Auditors, is here, the briefcase is here, I'm here and you're here. There can be no doubt that Accountability Day simply continues to exist and is held in honor. With these words, I would now like to offer you the financial annual report of the Empire 2015 and the other accountability documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	Madam President, Minister. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for inviting the Court of Auditors to give our opinion again this year on the National Account and to explain our investigation into the accountability of the Cabinet. Today, Wednesday 18 May, seems to be another day at the office, but for the minister, for you and of course for us, it is a special day. It is the last year's responsibility of this cabinet in missionary status. It is therefore the final responsibility on the eve of a new political period. It is a logical moment for you, the Chamber, to be busy with your wishes and your thoughts for the future. But it is also, we believe, a logical moment to take time for reflection and to take stock of the past period. This period was characterised by many cuts, reforms and transitions. This has required a great deal from the public sector and its implementation. In order to understand that, it is necessary to see accountability as the story behind the figures. It was your Chamber that made this third Wednesday in May a symbol of the principle that public funds always demand public control: open, transparent and followable for everyone. That is a hard-won democratic right that is not commonplace in many parts of the world. Ministers tell you, the public, whether public money has been spent neatly, economically and effectively. That's not just a story about the numbers that end up under the line in red or black. Accountability is explanation and explanation. What has been achieved with powers and public money? What results has that led to? Wednesday, May 18th, public accountability is not for insiders, but for all of us. The General Court of Auditors has the role of independent auditor and assists you in the interpretation of the figures. We control responsibility for you as a representative of the people, so that you can give discharge. We do this by asking three questions. 1. Was the money spent according to the rules? 2. Are things well arranged in the ministries? 3. Does the policy also have the desired effects? Madam President. You have just received the Minister's annual reports. We're putting our investigation on the sidelines. That was done in 29 documents. That is a lot, but it is also a lot of money: about 240 billion in income and expenditure. Now the special thing about 2015 is that it can be the prelude to two stories. This year, our research reveals a striking paradox, a striking contradiction. The first story we can tell you is about ministries that manage to organise a very high level of legality. This year, too, we approve the national accounts and the balance sheet of the Empire. Of course, we do so subject to your approval of the final laws. Almost 99,7% of expenditure is justified. With this high percentage, the Netherlands scores well in both historical and international terms. That's worth a compliment. I would like to make the point that you are aware of the fact that 600 million in expenditure has been wrongly presented to you by means of the final legislative amendment, and that the profits made in this area in recent years have disappeared again. That first story also fits the story of the significant improvement in the management of the departments. Those examples are there. For example, the Ministry of OCW has been able to eliminate all deficiencies. Chapeau! The number of shortcomings in the management of all ministries combined has decreased considerably, from 50 to 27. That's good news. However, as I said, the responsibility for 2015 is special, because it also provides the basis for a different story. In fact, the examination of the departmental annual reports also gives a picture of persistent, serious problems in the field of three classic public administration: taxation, defence and justice. Efforts to get a grip on this have so far not been sufficiently successful. The tax authorities are on the verge of an equally desirable and necessary modernisation. Last year our opinion on the ICT issue was there: serious imperfection. We must maintain this judgement this year, because no real progress has been made. And that means a lot. You should take into account that changes in tax legislation are not feasible or with high risks. That limits your ability to act. That is at the heart of democracy; that is what it is all about. This serious imperfection is therefore more than a question of implementation. I'll call it the Department of Defense. Military should be able to drive, fly and sail with the equipment, to practice and when it really matters. Unfortunately, we note that the operational readiness of the armed forces has declined further this year. This is certainly worrying given the international context. Too many vehicles are standing still. Too many planes stay on the ground. The Minister is open to this; let there be no misunderstanding. The problem is that there is no good long-term planning for the maintenance of the equipment. Many spare parts are not available on time. That is where our judgment, serious imperfection, directly affects the political objectives that have been set with you. The Ministry of V and J has been dealing with financial management for several years. We note a serious flaw in 2015 because one is not sufficiently "in control." That sounds abstract, but it means that people are not sure if the right information arrives at the right place at the right time. You noticed that last year when we were preparing the budget. That problem in this department is a problem with potentially far-reaching social consequences. Of course, cuts in all these departments play a role, but they are not so much the cause of the problems. Reductions call for targeted choices to be made, to generate reliable information. It is precisely the lack of ability to prioritize that these departments are playing tricks. "More money" is often the creed, but our research shows that this is not the first answer and that it is not just the solution. There are three serious shortcomings in one year. It's been a long time. It has been eight years since we had to judge so hard. This problem now calls for a solution and time for implementation. I started my story with the message that Responsible Day this year is a great moment for reflection, for drawing up the balance sheet, for reflection. Remarkable contradictions in our research also call for an overarching story. The government transfers a lot of money to other governments and to other remote implementation organisations due to decentralisation and reform. That's what's happening right now. The right money lands in the right account. However, it is often difficult to understand the results of public money. In recent decades, a new biodiversity of independent organisations with public money and public tasks has emerged. That's what the approximately 130 billion national money is all about. At municipal level, we are talking about some 60 billion. That includes the money for the newly decentralised tasks. All these changes are already an issue in themselves that requires attention. Is it all easy for those who have to do it? The questions or citizens who can follow system changes know where to knock and know who answers are inseparable, but are rarely asked. However, it is also a more far-reaching issue, because the fact that the money ends up in the right account and that there are fewer shortcomings in the management of the Empire does not mean that there are no more problems in implementation. This implementation often takes place at some distance. Think about the pgbs. Our research indicates that as a Chamber, you do not know enough about the results of the public money you have made available. This is not uncommon because the Minister himself does not know this either. We illustrate that this year with five cases from one ongoing investigation, we did additional to our annual audit. I only mention the subjects here. For the exact content and conclusions, please refer to the reports, the annexes to the reports and the briefings that we give over the next few weeks. For example, we investigated the tax advantage for expats from abroad, the so-called 30% scheme. We investigated the energy label for residential properties. We investigated the police's national priorities. We investigated the operation of the Betuweroute and examined the policy of helping older unemployed people to find a job. These are five different investigations, but the common denominator is that the cabinet knows less about the results of its policy than it should know. We have to look for the money too much. You, as a Chamber, also lack a view of the scale, implementation and impact of the measures, even though you, as a Chamber, have made the money available for them, or have decided to cut them down. In our research, for example, you can read about this when it comes to cuts in the UWV, the Centre indication care and the Judicial Institutions Service. It's time for implementation, that's what we said last year. Now, twelve months later, the need for reflection on implementation issues has not diminished, nor has it diminished, on the democratic consequences of the transitions that have taken place. It is right now that we should think about this, because national elections are planned in 2017. And that is, by definition, the time to propagate even more change. We therefore advise your Chamber to use the coming year for reflection and to reflect on what changes are taking place for citizens, for the implementation and for the functioning of democracy. The latter means that you, as a parliament, will receive the right information about money you decide on in good time and also about whether the citizen gets what he gets for his money. Mr. Chairman. I will make the offer of our research and I offer you 29 reports on behalf of my colleagues Kees Vendrik and Francine Giskes, including our report to the National Declaration. The Minister has a nice briefcase with that. My predecessor always offered you a nice transparent plastic bag, but I can't offer it for free since 1 January. And you know, we're watching the pennies!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	20 cents it costs!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court for the documents presented with responsibility for the 2015 National Budget. It is the seventeenth time that the Lower House receives the accountability documents from all ministers plus the reports of the General Court relating to them. For me as President, it is the first time. This also applies to our Registrar and, more importantly, to the President of the General Court, Mr Arno Visser, who has succeeded Saskia Stuiveling. What has remained unchanged despite all these changes is the Court's contribution to the Court's information position. His analysis of the legality, efficiency and effectiveness of the national policies implemented is indispensable in our parliamentary work. Ladies and gentlemen, the main debate on the accountability documents presented today, the so-called accountability debate, is on the agenda for Thursday 26 May 2016. The individual annual reports will be discussed in the committees in the following weeks. Final decision-making on the annual reports and final laws, as well as the discharge for the financial management carried out by ministers in 2015 is foreseen for the last week of the next summer recess. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of the accountability process, the 2015 Annual Report has also been presented to the Chamber. This has always been done by the Committee for National Expenditures, but because of the merger this year it has been done by the Permanent Committee for Finance. I trust that the reports presented today will, as always, be helpful in assessing the policy pursued in 2015, and I wish the Chamber every success in doing so.
