ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and first of all give the floor to Mrs Mulder on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u2	Mr. Chairman. From the debate on the locations for wind at sea it became quite clear that the way in which you allocate costs also determines which location choice is probably best suited. As the House of Representatives and residents know, wind at sea is important for our future, in which we need to become less dependent on fossil energy. During the consultations, the Minister had to admit that the costs for IJmuiden-Ver are significantly lower than previously indicated to the House of Representatives. The transfer of the costs from the cable to IJmuiden-Ver was only calculated on the basis of 2,100 MW, while it is triple possible there. With a bit of a healthy sense of farming, you can imagine that spreading the costs over the triple number of MW will probably result in a different business case. Despite the fact that we do not have these figures now, the majority of the House of Representatives wants the windmills within the 12 mile zone. The CDA has always been critical of this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it became clear from the debate that the cost comparison between the choice of location Hollandse Kust and IJmuiden-Ver is not well comparable and therefore the costs for IJmuiden-Ver are likely to be significantly lower than previously calculated and that therefore, possibly on the basis of erroneous assumptions, wind farms within the twelve-mile zone are now chosen;]] [[requests the Government to refrain from placing windmills off the Dutch coast within the 12 mile zone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33561-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u3	Just so we're clear, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u4	Mr President, my time has been running for some time. I'm just gonna hand it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u5	It's gonna be okay. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u6	Otherwise, Mrs. Mulder can have my minutes. I can clearly hear Mrs Mulder saying that it is only within the 12 mile zone that it is a problem. As we all know, most of the wind farms are outside the 12 mile zone. It's just a tiny piece between the ten and twelve mile range. So that's the only piece the CDA has a problem with? Do I understand correctly that the rest, the very large wind farms outside the 12-mile zone, is not a problem for the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u7	That is quite correct, Mr Bosman of the VVD. I come to my second motion, aimed at the future planning of wind energy at sea. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch contribution to the objectives of the Climate Agreement is highly likely to require more investment in wind at sea;]] [[calls on the Government, in order to ensure an optimal deployment strategy for offshore wind energy for the period up to 2030, to provide an overview of megawatts, locations and connection costs for the potential of wind at sea in the first quarter of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33561-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u8	I'm kind of missing the delineation. With wind at sea it can be very large. We're also talking about the Dogger Bank, about all the possibilities. Mrs Mulder seems to ask that we pass on all the scenarios for all the possibilities that exist. That was also reflected in the previous motion. It could be 2,100 MW, but it could also be 3,000 MW or 8,000 MW or much more. If we let go of all kinds of calculation methods on all kinds of possibilities, we get an excel spreadsheet with all kinds of possibilities, but it remains the question what is possible. What is the CDA's definition of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u9	I tabled this motion because during the debate a bit of a suggestion was raised that we could only reach the climate agreement if we were really going to fill the entire North Sea with windmills. I'm really wondering if that's true. So I would like to have a real overview of what we could do with each other in the years to 2030. The debate really gave rise to the suggestion that we would all fail to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement if we did not now set ourselves within the twelve-mile zone of windmills. I thought that was a very strange reasoning. That is why I have thought: we need to get a clear picture of the number of megawatts that we could put at sea by wind in our North Sea. Otherwise, everyone has the idea that we're gonna need every place. I'm actually wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u10	I have heard something else in the debate. In the debate I followed, it was about the energy agreement. According to that energy agreement, we need the entire Dutch coast, in terms of time and amount of megawatts. That's the deal. Much more will have to be done for the energy supply of the future, in 2030, 2050. In 20 years' time, we may have a lot of hydrogen or other energy. Is it realistic, then, to ask the cabinet if by 2050 all wind energy is needed? Maybe we have hydrogen energy. Or maybe we'll use deep geothermals. All these things come to mind. I think that the Chamber should take care that what it asks the cabinet is also realistic. And is what she's asking gonna lead to a point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u11	The question is what is possible until 2030. So a number of things may lose weight. It is ultimately up to the Minister to respond to this. In my view, this debate has raised the question of whether we need all those wind energy sites towards 2030. This has been suggested, also because the climate agreement comes around the corner. I would like to get a realistic picture of that. I don't have that image right now. Finally, I call on the Minister, when deciding on lots of windmills off the coast, to choose at least to stay as far away from the coastline as possible. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u12	Thank you, Mrs Mulder. On my list, it says that Mrs Dik-Faber would still be speaking, but she is not present in the Chamber at the moment. I therefore now ask the Minister to comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u13	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Mulder approaches the discussion that we had during the general consultation in a rather wondrous way. She says that I had to admit that the costs for IJmuiden-Ver are much lower. There's no way I had to admit something. The fact that costs are lower is the result of my efforts. I've taken care of it... No, rather, my staff, together with me, have arranged for wind energy at sea in such a way that we have been able to reduce costs. At first we thought that in a period of ten years we could achieve a cost reduction of 40%. But by organising the case in a certain way, we can achieve that cost reduction in one year instead of in ten years. As a result of a rapid cost reduction, the costs of windmills at sea are more generally reduced. These costs are, of course, also reduced for the mills of the IJmuiden-Ver project. I have said to the Chamber that I have said that on my own account, because of what we have done, so as a result of this general reduction in costs, we now estimate the additional costs of IJmuiden-Ver at 1.6 billion, whereas these additional costs were first estimated at 3 billion. So there's no "must admit" or anything like that. This is the result of our own policy that I myself presented to the Chamber. Mrs Mulder says that it can be achieved triple by windmills at IJmuiden-Ver. That's a little out of touch with reality. You cannot say a month or a quarter: let's put 6,000 MW here and a few thousand MW less elsewhere. This is a very extensive process. In addition, in a period of about six years we want to realize the five largest wind farms in the whole world off the Dutch coast. As a result, these windmills will not be in Drenthe, not in Groningen, not in Friesland. No, they're gonna be in the sea at 18.5 km from the coast. That's what we're doing. This is a very large process involving a huge amount of subsidy money. It is governed by separate legislation. A roadmap has been drawn up for this. All kinds of tests have been done. The first tender has been successful. I hope to come up with the outcome of the second tender shortly. Then we want to proceed immediately with the third tender, and the fourth, and the fifth. We do this because we all want to meet the targets for the years 2020 and 2023. Suppose I say, let's stop doing that and see if we can get 6,000 MW somewhere else. I would go through this whole process with that. That would mean that I would not achieve the objectives. Moreover, this would mean that a large capacity at least 18.5 km from the coast would not be used. I said in the debate that I do not think it is justified to rule out capacity already. I think it is quite conceivable that we will still need the windmills at sea in the future, if we have to go much further with renewable energy. I said that I would like to stick to what we have set in motion because I want to achieve the 14% and 16% targets, because I want to keep the pace in the process, because I would like to keep the cost reduction achieved and because I do not want to lose capacity off the coast. That is why I want to realize these windmills at a distance of more than 18.5 kilometres from the North and South Holland coasts. Mrs Mulder also said in the debate that it would be a lot cheaper to achieve at IJmuiden-Ver 6,000 MW with one cable. That too is far from reality. TenneT's whole plan looks like you're going to realize that with AC connections. If you want to achieve 6,000 MW in IJmuiden-Ver with alternating current at that distance, you don't need one cable but sixteen cables. I have said in general consultation that it is at a distance from reality to make a bit of claims about what could be done in IJmuiden-Ver. Moreover, it is not in the interests of the Netherlands, which wants to meet the targets for renewable energy and which also wants to have no more windmills on land than is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u14	The problem is that the calculations about the amount of megawatts at IJmuiden-Ver were not made. Nor could the Minister hand it over during the debate. The Minister can say that it all costs more, but he doesn't know that. You can work in IJmuiden-Ver with the same forms of current that are now used for the Dutch coast. You may assume that you can brighten that cable in a better way over a greater number of megawatts. We'd have liked to have seen that. But, yeah, we don't know. This automatically makes the option of windmills closer to the coast more attractive to the Minister. I'm just having trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u15	It is well known to the Chamber what the construction of the 3 billion has been, and it is now well known what the construction of the 1.6 billion is. We've all exchanged that with the Chamber. Mrs Mulder generally agreed with the idea that instead of five parks off the coast, we have been planning them for a few years and the first two tenders have already started to realise 6,000 MW in IJmuiden-Ver and to connect it to one cable because that would be much easier. I just indicated that we need 16 cables for that. That was wrong: we need 17 cables for that. We need 17 cables to connect IJmuiden-Ver with AC to the country. Mrs Mulder has come up with an alternative and suggested that a cost reduction could be achieved. I say that it is not at all right what she says, because the 6,000 MW have not yet been shown at all. We haven't got that far yet. If we were to start doing so, it would result in a delay of a few years. Mrs Mulder saw a saving because it could be done with one cable, but the reality is that 17 cables are needed. That's the kind of thing we can't get through. We are engaged here in a very responsible process to realize within a short time the five largest wind farms in the world at 18.5 kilometres off our coast. If we do that, we achieve two things. Firstly, we are achieving our goals. Secondly, with the people in Drenthe, Groningen, Friesland and in all those other places we don't have to put down more windmills than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u16	I think it is quite remarkable that the Minister is now proposing this in this way. In general consultation last week he did not come up with this information at all. It became absolutely clear that it wasn't calculated that way. That's exactly what we'd like to see. We see that it is likely to cost a lot of jobs in the coastal communities, including in a port like Den Helder. That hurts us. We'd rather not. We prefer both those windmills at sea and that we still have a nice view, so that the employment in the coastal communities remains good. It would be so nice if the Minister did his best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u17	I have come up with the precise specification of all the proposals I have made. All the options I've outlined, I've transferred to the Chamber very specifically. You know exactly what costs are involved. You come up with the theorem: instead of what you came up with yourself in IJmuiden-Ver, with 6,000 MW and take advantage of the fact that you need one cable for that. That's what you say at a meeting like this. Then I have to find out what's going on with the cables and it turns out that not one cable is needed, but that 17 cables are needed. Then you should not say such things in such consultation, as if it were a wisdom, when it just turns out not to be true. As far as employment is concerned, there are two things that are going on. The most likely estimate is that it does not cost employment at all. If it costs employment, it is to a small extent the case and on the other hand there is another employment. After all, these windmills need to be built and those wind farms need to be built and maintained. Some of the coastal communities have said to me that they see that and would like to use it as well. So I've agreed that we do two things. Where municipalities expect there to be potential problems, we will work with the municipalities to overcome those potential problems, which I do not expect to arise. Where municipalities see opportunities, together with these municipalities, we will try to take advantage of these opportunities. I do not think we need to worry about employment at all, because it is windmills that come at 18.5 kilometres from the coast instead of 22 kilometres. That's not a big difference. Over the next decades, when everyone will be moving towards renewable energy, a lot of people will be pleased that we can generate renewable energy at low costs off the coast with wind turbines. So I don't think the atmosphere around the windmills and the coast is negative. That is why I even think that burning the Dutch coast as a sustainable coast is quite possible. I would also like to work on this with the coastal communities. I have two motions from Mrs Mulder. In the motion in part No. 34 asks the government to refrain from placing windmills off the Dutch coast within the 12 mile zone. I wasn't going to. That's why I don't recommend that motion. Then there is Mrs Mulder's second motion. 35. In the first quarter of 2017 I have to come up with an overview of what is possible for wind at sea in the period up to 2030. I wasn't going to do that either, Mrs. Mulder. Look, it's 2016. I have now made a detailed planning for the year 2020. I've made a detailed schedule for the year 2023. In this month I come up with an energy agenda for the period up to 2050. When I came here, at this place, there was nothing at all at this point. This cabinet has made that change, that irreversible shift to renewable energy. We have made sure that there is broad public support for it. We have a very specific target for 2020 and we are going to achieve it. The same is true for the year 2023. We come up with a roadmap, an energy agenda until 2050. Then I will not let you impose on me that in the first quarter of 2027 I will have to come up with a specification of what is possible for wind at sea in the year 2030. So I'm not gonna do that. For that reason, I also advise against your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u18	Mr Bosman, you have not tabled a motion. You haven't spoken. You're dissatisfied with the Minister's judgment on both motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u19	I need some help with the first motion. The Minister's explanation could be clarified. So I have a clarifying question. The CDA has no problem with windmills outside the 12 mile zone. Can the Minister outline the difference between the ten- and twelve-mile zone, which makes up 3.5 kilometres, before sight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u20	Roughly you can say that if you have the mills at 22 kilometers, you can see them 25% of the year in the distance. If you have the mills at 18.5 kilometers, you can see them at roughly 35% of the days of the year in the distance. That is the difference we are talking about. Mrs Mulder's final question was whether I would like to try to get those mills as far away from the coastline as possible once the change that is now under discussion has been made. I'm gonna try to fill out the planetary space as responsibly as possible. I will do so by ensuring that the ecological interests, the interests of good maintenance and the good handling of the wind are taken into account within that area. In addition, they won't get any closer to the coast than they need to. With everything that's going on to fill out the planetary space, I'll be happy to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u21	That is the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-29-tweedekamer-36.u22	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
