ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. Almost a year ago, on 16 June 2015, this Chamber adopted an amendment by a very large majority of 148 out of 150 votes to ensure that the choices in the MBO will count for the success/pocket scheme from 2018. I tabled this amendment because, fortunately, the VVD and with us, almost all the other parties want the choices to be introduced quickly and seriously into the MBO. The choices enable pupils to prepare themselves well for an increasingly rapidly changing labour market. So we want schools to make serious work of the choices. For this, it is important that they include them for the beating/pocket scheme. However, the Minister does not implement the amendment adopted as it is intended and as it has been clearly explained in the debate. De facto, it postpones implementation by three to four years. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Lucas c.s. amendment (34160, No. 18) was adopted by 148 votes in favour and regulates that the electives in the MBO from the school year 2018-2019 should be included in the success/pocket scheme;]] [[having regard to the fact that during the debate there was a clear exchange of views that, in the case of diplomas issued from 2018, the options should be included in the success/pocket scheme and, at the request of the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, the amendment has been amended (delayed for one year) in order to make it more practicable, the Minister said;]] [[Considering that the Minister's General Measure of Management uses a different date of entry into force by including it in the success/pocket scheme only for the cohort of pupils from 2018-2019, which in fact postpones the introduction of the amendment for up to four years;]] [[Whereas the transitional provision in the law is intended only for pupils who have already started training and therefore, as the Minister wrongly argues, does not apply to cohorts 2016-2017 and 2017-2018;]] [[noting that the decision as presented by the Minister is not in line with the very broad amendment adopted;]] [[Invites the Government, in accordance with the amendment, to amend the decision so that electives are part of the success/pocket scheme for participants from the cohort 2016-2017 when they graduate in or after 2018-2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lucas, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rog and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34407-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u2	I have a brief enlightening question. Mrs Lucas quite rightly said that this part should be introduced quickly and seriously. She formulated that very nicely. At the same time, yesterday and the day before yesterday, we received a large number of letters, including from the professional association MBO, from a director responsible for the introduction of the selection targets, and from the JOB. How does Mrs Lucas view that plea in relation to her motion? I would very much like to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u3	When we had the debate in June, we discussed in detail the wish of the Chamber to introduce it quickly and very seriously, so that it would be taken directly seriously by the field. We have weighed that wish against the time needed to do it right. That is why, at the request of the Minister, we have amended the amendment, which Mrs Jadnansing, by the way, co-signed, in such a way that it would start a year later. The weighing-up to do it carefully, but rather quickly, has taken place. In addition, it had to be taken seriously by the MBO from day one. I understand that there are letters coming now, because the field has got the idea from the Ministry of OCW that it would only count for the cohort 2018. Of course the field is now surprised, but the Chamber has been clear in its wish. In the debate, the word 'cohort' was not mentioned at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can discuss this today, because in my opinion there is some confusion about the implementation of the Lucas and Others amendment. (34160, No. 18). It'll take a little more time to explain that properly. Since it was originally an amendment, I would like to discuss it carefully with the Chamber. The original amendment tabled by Mrs Lucas and others had two aims: to include the electives for certification and to refer to the academic year in which this should enter into force. I shared my hesitations about both parts of the amendment with the Chamber, but I also met her with the inclusion of the choices for certification. In my opinion, this also gives me the main part of the Lucas and Others amendment. This is not the case, but it is not the case. I said in the plenary debate in June 2015 that the implementation consequences of this amendment are great and that there should be room to get used to the choices before students are paid for them. That is in the interests of the students themselves. During the debate, I said that I could basically live with the amendment, provided that the wording was "in principle 2018-2019, unless." Ms Lucas modified the amendment and changed the academic year 2017-2018 in the explanatory statement to 2018-2019. She did not include the 'unless' in the amendment. The confusion mainly relates to the question to which the year 2018-2019 refers. I have read the report of the debate again and I have come to the conclusion that this is the confusion. I understand from the written questions and from Mrs Lucas' motion that she means all students who graduate in 2018-2019. We have understood it this way, after reading the report of the debate in June, I see that this is still a consistent reasoning about the students starting their training in 2018 and 2019. We have done so because, in fact, all legislative proposals are based on a cohort approach. We don't change the beating/pocket scheme during training. We did not do that with other legislative proposals, such as those on macro-efficiency, on the cascade and on the qualification structure, and we did not do that with the study advance. In this case, we also assumed this. I blame myself for not making explicit reference to the cohort approach in the debate. This is so obvious to us that we implicitly assumed the students who start their training in 2018-2019. If we follow the cohort approach as I imagine it to be, in 2018-2019, the choices will certainly be included in the success/pocket scheme for a group of students, namely those in an entrance programme. For level 2 students that would be a year later, in 2019-2020. For level 3 and 4 students at a three-year programme in 2020-2021 and for level 4 students with a four-year programme another year later. What is involved now is that we are dealing here with a complex legislative proposal in a complex practice, because the revision of the qualification structure with new training based on the adapted qualification files and the introduction of electives is really a big and complex task for teachers, students and schools. I think it is my responsibility and my duty as Minister to draw the attention of the Chamber to these major implementation problems. When I talk to teachers or school directors, they say they have their hands full with everything they have to do already. In addition, the Chamber has adopted an amendment by Mr Rog which allows schools to replace a part of their choice with their own part, in the area of personal, cultural or philosophical education. At Mrs Lucas' request, a letter of amendment was also made to allow students to choose more widely from choice. The two amendments and the letter of amendment significantly increase the complexity of schools. At the request of schools, the supervisor of the implementation of the revision of the qualification structure, Mr Jongepier, made an impact analysis. I just happened to get this one this week. I understand he also sent a short letter to the Chamber. He states that, even if we continue along this road, Mrs Lucas is now proposing that there should be proper implementation consequences. All students need to be informed again and teachers, practical counsellors, career counselors, really everyone, have to do other things than what they are now prepared for, namely to go into 2018-2019. I realise that this is very unfortunate, given that we had that debate in June 2015 and that we are now almost a year further. That doesn't make it any easier. Once again, I am very sorry that there has been confusion about this. I've reread all the pieces. You can look at those texts with two different perspectives, read them again and reread them, and then anyone can pull them out equally. Now I have the situation where I have to think about what else to ask of schools. It is not just about information, they must also do the guidance and adapt the OER. My fear is that if we go too fast, students will opt for risk-free choices. Because students will take into account the chance of success, there will be a less varied offer. They can decide to do something easy, because they have a greater chance of success than when, for example, they start doing German because they find it difficult. For example, a student will be less likely to opt for what Mrs Lucas has proposed and which I have said is an interesting proposal: to do a catering part during a hairdressing course. They will probably prefer to do a barber's choice part, because that increases the chance of obtaining a diploma. In short, I see that there are many objections. I haven't even mentioned examination boards, administration systems and so on. I would ask the Chamber to give me the freedom to send a very short-term letter on that report by Mr Jongepier to the Chamber, which I can really inform the Chamber. As unhappy as I think it is, I want to stick to the self-evident introduction of the beating/pocket scheme for choice-sharing, but with the cohort guarantee as we do with other legislation, starting in 2018. It will then apply for that year to the students in the entrance programme. I hope to meet Mrs Lucas on that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u5	There is a technical problem and there may have been speech confusion. I would like to clarify a number of things that the Minister has said. I did not change the 'unless' in my amendment, as the Minister said. That is what I reported in the debate at the time, and the amendment was adopted by 148 votes. The other parties also knew that I only changed the date and did not want an evaluation in advance and yet the amendment was adopted. Also the VVD does not want to change the rules during the game. That is why we deliberately chose to do so. We actually use a cohort approach, but that cohort starts from 2016. A transitional arrangement was already in place for existing students. The students who start from 2016 would know in advance that this will count for the success/pocket scheme in 2018. I would like to emphasise that, in the approach in the amendment as I intended, the cohort approach was indeed respected. The minister's afraid it's going too fast, but I'm afraid it's going too slowly. I find this very difficult to explain. We always tell students that the world and the labour market are changing very quickly, but apparently we cannot change MBO within three years and develop choices that can also be investigated. To be honest, I do not understand why it would suddenly lead to enormous implementation problems if you included that figure, which has already been mentioned. I don't know what the big difference is with choosing parts on a diploma, but don't let them count for the beating/pocket scheme. We would like the amendment simply to be implemented as it is intended by the Chamber. I ask the Minister to consult with the field in order to speed things up. The Ministry has communicated that it will only apply from the cohort 2018, but that is not in line with the wishes of the Chamber. I believe that the Minister should make an effort to make it clear to the field as soon as possible that it must be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mrs Lucas and I agree that the MBO needs to be much more responsive and able to respond to rapid changes. If the system stands once, so can it. We have also said that short-term choices can be introduced in a quarter. We are dealing with a mega-reform in the MBO; the shortening of training courses, the disappearance of qualification files, the creation of new qualifications files. This must be done by people in the workplace and by teachers, who sometimes have to form new teams. New examination agreements need to be made. The counseling needs to be in order. I therefore urge the House to also take account of implementation aspects. That's what I'm saying in a general sense. The Chamber and the Cabinet are sometimes used to thinking that if something is in a law or regulation, it is also about ready and implemented. This is really a complex process, not just because of the choices, but because of the whole thing we're doing. That's really asking a lot. I was at a meeting last week of a professional association of the MBO. From that one cry came out: please, give us a moment to work out and implement everything we have to do, well and conscientiously. I understand Mrs Lucas doesn't want things to slow down, but sometimes you can go too fast. I would like to say once again that I am genuinely sorry that this difference of interpretation is only now coming to an end. If we had known that earlier, I might have been able to inform the Chamber more easily, sooner and more precisely about what the problems are. Of course I am prepared to go into the field, but I am going to tell the Chamber what I hear about the field, the schools, teachers and students. That is why I would like to send a letter to the Chamber about the impact analysis I recently received. I believe that, as a co-legislator, the Chamber should also know the consequences of speeding up the implementation. I myself do not think this is wise, and I say that with great emphasis. Of course, I would like to meet Mrs Lucas on the main point of her amendment: choices will be part of the success/pocket scheme. We do this with the cohort approach, as we do with the other laws. I can talk about that in detail, but then it's gonna be a pretty technical story. We are doing exactly as we do with other legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u7	This minister doesn't just have to do with a field. This minister also has to do with a Chamber. That Chamber has voted in an amendment and is now tabling a motion that has already been signed by Members representing a majority of this Chamber. So the Chamber wants to introduce this more quickly. The field says it can't be that fast. I think it is up to the Minister to ensure that the wishes of the Chamber are implemented. In my view, that is the task which the Minister is now getting ready for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u8	Well, then I'm gonna put on a nuance. In order to meet the Chamber and because I wanted to be sympathetic, I said at the time that I could leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber if it changed the motion. Then I wouldn't object to it anymore. In doing so, I assumed that the cohort approach would apply. If I had realised that the interpretation was different, we would have had another debate at the time. Again, it is very unfortunate that this has not happened, but I would ask Mrs Lucas to hold her motion. Then I can send a letter to the Chamber about the impact analysis and its consequences. Then I will also talk to the field about what is still possible. I do think that I should inform the Chamber clearly about the risks I see in the implementation. Then I do not talk after what I hear from others, but I must be able to make an integral assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u9	I think the points of view are quite clear. Mrs Lucas, quite finally, and very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u10	I assume that from now on the Minister will be talking to the field about implementing the amendment as envisaged by the Chamber: accelerating the inclusion of the electives in the beating/pocket regime. We cannot wait for that. The opinion of the Chamber is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u11	I think I just promised Mrs Lucas that. I would like to know whether we can now see that the difference of interpretation we had at the time is also a difference of opinion. I'd like to hear how the Chamber weighs this. I think that is what this debate is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Van Meenen, you are at the interrupting microphone, but I am only giving the floor to the authors of the motions. Otherwise we will have a very long debate, and unfortunately that will not work today at this VSO. I propose that we vote on Tuesday on the motion on item No. 3. I would like to thank you all very much. I would like to thank the Minister very much. Mr Van Meenen has a jumping point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u13	Yes. It's more of a point of order. I would like the Minister's letter before we vote. I'm prepared to vote a week later if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u14	I can try. I have just made another commitment to Mrs Lucas, namely to have a conversation with those involved in order to look again at what is possible. I asked her to hold the motion. However, I do not manage to do this for Tuesday. Maybe I can still send in the impact analysis. That is a rather technical story, so I would like to give some explanation. My request was therefore to hold the motion. That gives me the opportunity to continue to inform me. During this debate, we discussed the impact analysis and the implementing technical elements, and the way in which I believe this amendment was and is intended. I will see if there are other ways of meeting the wishes, but I do need more time to do so than until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u15	If the Minister writes a letter to the Chamber, in which she gives the impact analysis and also provides a story showing how she will ensure that the majority of the Chamber wishes to introduce it more quickly than she proposed in the General Measure of Management, then I am prepared to hold the motion until the letter arrives. I would like the very clear commitment that the letter will be there within two weeks and that the purpose of the letter is to see how we can speed up the implementation of the amendment as it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u16	That's what I'm telling you. I also think that we need to clarify this very quickly. As far as I am concerned, this absolutely must be done within two weeks. I am going to do my best to meet the wishes of the Chamber, but bearing in mind the objections I have raised. I am really going to do my best to meet that wish, but I must be able to make my own assessment of what I think is technically sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u17	Mrs Lucas, are you holding the motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u18	I'll hold the motion until the letter arrives and until I know if the letter contains sufficient clarity. If that is not the case, I shall put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u19	At the request of Mrs Lucas, I propose her motion (34407, No. 3) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-14-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you all very much.
