ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is important that there are more funding opportunities and more choice for SMEs as well as more competition. We believe that crowdfunding can play an important role in this. The goal was and is to give more space to crowdfunding. The proposal before us is already a slight improvement on the previous proposal, but we still want to propose an adjustment. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that SMEs in particular need more alternative forms of funding, such as crowdfunding;]] [[the intention was to give more room for crowdfunding through new rules;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that, while the recently presented amended crowdfunding rules are an improvement on the rules presented in December, they are still too restrictive and offer too little room for manoeuvre;]] [[that previously up to €20,000 (equity-based) crowdfunding and €40,000 (loan-based) crowdfunding were not any investment test, and now an investment test starting at €500 and up to 10% of freely investable assets;]] [[calls for a substantial increase in the investment test of €500 to, for example, €5,000;]] [[refers to the standard of investing up to 10% of the freely investable capital to be found far-reaching in alternative forms of financing;]] [[calls on the Government to bring this to the attention of the Financial Markets Authority (AFM) with the request to amend the rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29515-374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to take the next angle. Crowdfunding is a relatively new phenomenon that enables lending to promoters and entrepreneurs. This is actually widely supported. In the Chamber and in society, I found no one against it. That is why the AFM and the Ministry of Finance have looked at how they can now further promote, enable and expand crowdfunding. We have adapted the new rules in a few steps, to give real space. Mrs De Vries has drawn on this like no other. We are 99% out of that. There is one point left. That is always a pity, because it is as if we are facing each other and having a big disagreement. That's why I gave the introduction I just gave. Crowdfunding is positive and we want to try to give each other more room for that. Investment limits have been greatly widened, i.e. for equity from €20,000 to €40,000 and for loans from €40,000 to €80,000. And yes, at the same time, a few ways have been built in to warn the consumer who is going to invest through a crowdfunding platform. It is said to that consumer that he has to weigh up the risks, that it is not risk-free, and that he has to weigh the size of the amount: can you really miss it if it goes wrong? How do we do that? On the one hand, we say to the investment platforms that they might be wise to advise their clients not to invest too much of the freely investable assets in one project. That's where the maximum 10% comes from. In the last conversation between the platforms and the AFM it was said that we would find that a good guideline, but that we leave it to the crowdfunding platforms to mention this in the communication between them and the clients. On the other hand, there is the investment test, which is also mentioned in the motion. Following the last conversation between the AFM and the crowdfunders, it has been modified. This was done at the request of Mrs De Vries. How does it work now? People who invest €500 or more on a crowdfunding platform for the first time will see on their screen a number of questions they need to click through. For example, they are informed about possible risks: think about them, you are aware of them, etc. Suppose someone went through that, got to know it, and thinks he knows it. If he wants to put in $1,000, that's fine. That's at your own risk. People decide that for themselves. However, they get through that for a while, once. A repetition takes place only at €5,000. How are you supposed to assess these boundaries? Is that a lot now, $500 or $5,000? The average investment of a private investor is €600 to €700. If we do what is requested in the motion and allow the investment test to take place only from €5,000, then the vast majority of the clients do not get that information, or that warning or attention. That therefore leads me to the opinion that we should not support this motion now. I'd like to dissuade the motion. People may decide for themselves in the end, but I do think it is important that private investors should also be reminded of the fact that investing via crowdfunding platforms is not risk-free. People are reminded of that and then they make their own decision. That's the approach I'd like to discourage this motion. I'm sure we've agreed on two more moments of evaluation. The AFM will continue to talk to the crowdfunding platforms to see how things are going in practice and whether further adjustments are needed. We'll see about that later. So I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u4	The Minister states that there has been an increase and that most of the amounts are €600 or €700. It's not really an extension to put it at €500. And it's a little more than just clicking things away, because in such an investment test you also have to fill out data. We propose to give this a little more space. We think that's justified, too. I wonder how the Minister looks at his statement that he wants to give more room for crowdfunding. The investment limits are going up, but there will be another huge administrative burden which, if I listen to the Minister, is only symbolic because everyone can click these things away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u5	Indeed, people need to fill in a few numbers, but this allows them to be well informed about the risks they run. And after that, the decision is up to people themselves. I don't think you can say: if it's a decision of your own, you don't have to inform them, because that's bullshit. I disagree. I think it is important for investors to be aware of the risks they pose and of what can happen in the worst scenario. They should at least consider that they can also lose the money, that it is an investment with risks. If they're aware of that, fine. It's their own decision. It's their money, and if they can take the risk or are willing to take that risk, it's their own decision. Again, the boundaries have really been widened. Let me add one more thing about this disclosure. I think that this sector, to name but a few, because I believe that there are now about 47 crowdfunding platforms, should become more mature in the coming period. It should be standard practice for these platforms to inform consumers, private investors, about the investment projects and the risks that people face, but also about the functioning of the platform. How well does this platform actually do? How many defaults are there? How many losses have been suffered? But also: how many successful projects has this platform known? That type of disclosure to the client is really important. We are really still at the beginning of this development. I therefore call on the sector to take the lead on this issue of providing information to the client in the coming years and not to wait until the AFM prescribes it, but to take steps itself, so that the sector will become more mature at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-04-tweedekamer-10.u6	The motion tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for coming.
