ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The TTIP train has already passed more stations than we thought possible, according to documents that have become public through a WOB procedure by Follow The Money. We are TTIP, then still called TAFTA, messed up by a outgoing cabinet, the Rutte I cabinet, a cabinet that was only allowed to fit the store until the election. This cabinet has independently made TTIP a top priority, without informing the Chamber and giving it the opportunity to declare this subject controversial, and I quote from the former secret documents, full liberalisation of all sectors, including those traditionally sensitive such as agriculture and industry. It is a treaty that is at the expense of our standards in the areas of public health, animal welfare and the environment. Does the Minister regret that this is how the Demissionary Cabinet acted? Does she agree with the Animal Party that the Rutte I cabinet should have informed the Chamber about this? Why did it not actively inform the Chamber of the way in which the Netherlands entered into negotiations as a cheerleader of TTIP? After all, that still works today. If you bet so hard, how can you go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Thieme for her questions. I just don't agree with her at all. I have dived into the notes, notes and minutes, and I have noticed the following, which is not at all consistent with the impression given by Mrs Thieme of the way things are going. On 16 May, my predecessor, Mr Bleker, sent an annotated agenda on the Foreign Affairs Council. That's always the way it is. He also raised this issue. As usual, there will be a general consultation in which the annotated agenda will be discussed and the person in charge can be sent to Brussels with messages. That happened on May 23rd. During the general consultation the groups of CDA, PvdA, VVD and PVV were present. The subject was dealt with. The CDA Group had a question, including the PvdA Group. On that occasion, Mrs Smeets, my predecessor, said the following, which I would like to quote. "It is striking that the trade agreements on the annotated agenda are described quite briefly and in very general terms. The PvdA Group considers it desirable for us to be more specifically informed about the Dutch commitment. What are the possible effects of the free trade agreement on employment? What are the consequences for Dutch business? What about sustainability and human rights? Is it a mixed agreement and will we still see it in the Chamber? In short, I call for a more systematic approach to what is being discussed." In his reply, Mr Bleker then promised her that he would report on progress in a transparent and systematic manner. He then does so in the report of the Foreign Affairs Council on 31 May. This is all during the period when the cabinet was decommissioned. I'm not gonna read that to you, because everyone can find it in the pieces. It is stated that the Council is almost unanimous in its support for an ambitious agreement, but it is also said that a margin of the G20 Summit has been discussed about deepening the EU-US trade relationship, for example through a TAFTA. This is stated in the report, but has not led to a formal announcement of this initiative, let alone the setting of a starting date for negotiation. That all came after that. So yes, it has been discussed with Parliament. Parliament has been able to make its contribution and so my predecessor has gone to Brussels. In fact, not much has happened in that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	So that's what happened before the stage. We already knew that an ambitious agreement was being agreed, but what was behind it? And what do we read? The PvdA talked about human rights and intangible values, but the policy documents that were sent to the highest official to negotiate for the Netherlands state that: The Netherlands wants an ambitious and comprehensive agreement. If we do it, we have to do it right! This means not only that all sectors must be included in the negotiations, but also that the commitment must be full liberalisation. There is no need to make concessions in sensitive traditional areas such as agriculture and industry. There too, full liberalisation is necessary. A outgoing cabinet should not begin with such top priorities without asking the Chamber for permission. The cabinet is going into the process anyway, knowing that a year before that, with a Koopmans/Snijder-Hazelhoff motion, the Chamber indicated that no concessions should be made with regard to agricultural standards. The cabinet therefore knew that the Chamber was not in favour of full liberalisation. Yet that was in the order for the highest official. It is said that everything is being taken into account, but that the highest official should go for full liberalisation. That's exactly the back room politics why so many people are against TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	I do not think it would be appropriate for Mrs Thieme to be so bathinating about human rights and other values. We often have debates about this with her...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	I object to this. At the moment, it is the cabinet that is putting human rights and animal welfare at risk because of TTIP. Let us clearly indicate who is responsible for what.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	I don't agree with that last one. The key point is that negotiations had not yet started. Mrs Thieme says that perhaps I paraphrase her a little too sharply that the highest official has been sent to negotiate with a particular instruction. But there were no negotiations at that time. There has been a discussion in that Council, which has been discussed in a general consultation. A report has been made on this. What has been discussed in this general consultation is also the guiding principle for the way in which we are still negotiating TTIP today, while at the same time respecting European values. Is it wise to have such an ambitious commitment? Is it wise to want to get the maximum out? If you start negotiations, you only do so if you are confident that it is good for your citizens and that you can bring it to a successful conclusion. And then you really want it to be ambitious and comprehensive. Only afterwards, after these few weeks in that Rutte I missionary period, negotiations have begun. Then we discussed it about 25 times in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	The first is that the Cabinet did not inform the Chamber that it would go for full liberalisation within the Free Trade Treaty rather than making reservations in it with regard to human rights and animal welfare, and secondly that the Demissionary Cabinet did not allow the Chamber to declare that controversial. I think it is a typical example of backroom politics. For the stage it is said that the cabinet wants to be as transparent as possible, but when you start a WOB procedure, you get to see the actual documents, which do not take into account the concerns that live in society. The fact that this minister did not wish to make the negotiating mandate public indicates that transparency is still far from being achieved. Finally, if nothing really happened, I would ask the Minister to indicate in a letter exactly what steps have been taken during that period and whether there are irreversible steps, which makes it difficult to withdraw from TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	I don't need a letter to confirm that. I told you, there were no negotiations. The Chamber was informed by means of an annotated agenda of general consultations and in general consultations, which were also attended to a limited extent, was discussed by four parties. We discussed this later in 25 debates. For the Netherlands, the red lines are clear. That is the basis on which we negotiate. Environment, animal welfare and our standards I repeat it once again: its red lines for the Netherlands. That's where we've always found each other in the Chamber. This is where I always felt supported at the negotiating table. Once again, no negotiations were held in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	In my group's view, there is no real back room policy unless you make a lot of trouble here in Question Time about something that, if you had been careful, you could have just raised before the Council meeting on 30 May. At that time, however, Mrs Thieme's party shone through absence, but this was not the case. I have a question for the Minister about the word 'liberalisation'. We too have read the article. The word 'liberalisation' only refers to trade and not to all the other issues raised in TAFTA and TTIP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	In general, the answer is yes. Quite specifically, this can also be seen by Mr Teeven in the result of CETA...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In practice, we want to see how we can ultimately free trade, but at the same time protect vulnerable sectors. When you start negotiating, you first establish a mandate, in which you pay attention to all those vulnerable sectors. It is clear that a treaty must yield something for the broadest possible field in the Dutch economy. It is certainly not about liberalising public services. That is totally out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	This is the second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	Has the Ministry been asked to comment by the author of this article? Has there been hearing and hearing? Or did the writer just lime something up and we're all running after it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	I do not recognize myself entirely in Mr Teven's words, just as I do not recognize myself in Mrs Thieme's words. The procedure is as follows: These documents were requested in the context of a WOB procedure. Those who go through this procedure and receive the requested documents are free to quote, report or make analyses. That's not what the government's about. Nor is there any procedure which requires that there should be hearing and hearing again. I think that's how it works.
