ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister, like the spokesmen and the people in the public gallery. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today a bill containing a number of points, namely the establishment of the National Contact Point, as provided for in the Patients Directive, and the simplification of the calculation and collection of the contribution of treaty beneficiaries abroad. These matters are overshadowed by the most important part of this bill, namely the abolition of world coverage in health insurance. Apart from the desirability of this, on which you may disagree, my group has serious doubts about the justification of the proposed savings. They live not only with my group, but also with the Council of State and the health insurance companies. I would like to ask the Minister if there is any saving at all. Or is it more of a matter of principle? Abolition of world coverage is actually something from the past, because it is an agreement from the Rutte I coalition agreement. We now have to deal with this at the end of the day, because it has to start as of 1 January 2017. My question to the Minister is: is there really enough time to organise other insurance options? I'll get back to you on that. According to Article 20 of the Patients Directive, the Netherlands is obliged to collect information on cross-border care. The Patients Directive should have been implemented by the end of 2013. We didn't get that date. The Minister informed us about this after a wide-ranging report in the media in 2014 that a notice of formal notice against the Netherlands had been launched. It is not entirely clear to me whether this bill is sufficiently implementing the Patient Directive. Can the Minister explain that again? We have already exchanged this in writing, but my question is whether it is correct and complete. After all, the Minister thought that we had actually implemented the directive before it was adopted, namely by introducing the Health Insurance Act, but the European Commission felt that it was necessary to qualify the way in which the Netherlands acted in such a way that we were given a notice of default. So I'm not quite sure it's okay. I'd like to be persuaded by the Minister. In fact, what the already established National Contact Point is doing, namely collecting data and being a contact point for healthcare providers and for people going to a treaty country, should not be so difficult. Or we don't have the information all in a row, so I ask the Minister. I'm going into the world's cover now. Suppose a Dutch couple goes on their honeymoon, let's say to Indonesia. They rent a scooter, have the sun in the face and the wind in the hair, but oh dear, they slip and not only have a bit of abrasions but there is also a severe shoulder fracture. In all their preparations they have assured themselves, but not enough. So here's the thing: what do we do? You need help, are in an Indonesian hospital and actually want to go to the Netherlands for a good treatment. Can you leave if you can't afford it? Do you have to take care of that right away with the hospital in Indonesia? That may be cheaper than here, but the amount will still be substantial. How do we solve that? If you have to recover in Indonesia, you're gone longer, your ticket expires and you may not be able to work, how do we deal with it? Or what to think of the situation that you get care abroad after an accident that you could actually have gotten better in the Netherlands, so you don't recover quite well. Then maybe we need a recovery operation that leads to care costs here. In other words, what are we going to do with people who go abroad for a holiday, who do not expect them to get sick, who are perhaps a little or not at all insured and who are faced with an accident or illness? It's your own fault, big bump, you can say, but we've got world cover now. That is perhaps a much better solution than that everyone has to start to insure themselves separately. How do we deal with people who have very high care costs but cannot pay them and are stuck abroad? How do we deal with people who sit in the Netherlands and have to pay a very high bill? Is there a possibility of a coulance for that? Is the Minister prepared to look into that? You could imagine that those costs abroad will be reimbursed by the health insurance company and that they will be passed on to someone in the Netherlands. If those charges can be recovered, you could apply for a coulance account like that. But, yes, isn't that a very bureaucratic order? I'm asking the Minister because I'm really struggling with this. When it comes to a legislative proposal, it is always the question of who gets better. I'm not really getting out of there. You would say that the insurance industry is getting better, because it can offer travel insurance in addition to travel insurance and cancellation insurance. However, the Alliance of Insurers says: we don't know that just now, we don't know if we're getting it done. Individual insurance rather than current insurance will certainly be much more expensive because we live in a country where we simply pay contributions for the cost of care. They say switching to travel insurance isn't real. It takes a lot of adjustments. They also say that it will be much more expensive and there will be high implementation costs and that there will be conflicts and procedures on what is and will not be reimbursed. In other words, do we want to? Moreover, it is not yet clear to many countries whether foreign insurance will have to be provided or whether a solution will have to be found in all kinds of treaties. What is the Minister's reaction to the criticism of the Association of Insurance Companies? Those who do not gain by abolishing world cover are the insured. It's gonna be a lot more complicated than that. You now have dozens of basic insurances and hundreds of supplementary insurances. It is so bad that there is talk in this room of choice stress among people when it comes to the transition circus of health insurance. And then there is the possibility of an additional continuous travel insurance for medical expenses etc. Is that so desirable? For those who stay abroad for their work, there is an exception for world coverage, but for those who study abroad or do an internship or volunteering there, again. Why is that difference made? I haven't figured out who benefits from this bill. In any case, I can see that it is a major disadvantage for chronically ill and disabled people. They've already had quite a few blows from this cabinet. A lot of fees are lost, but traveling outside Europe, if they can, will be expensive. The care they need abroad they will have to arrange through insurance. Where there is an assumption obligation for health insurers for people with a chronic illness who are obviously not there for the travel insurance industry. Moreover, all the parties here have asked very critical questions about this in their written preparation. The Minister replied that an acceptance obligation is not possible. This is not possible in the free sector of these insurances. It does say that the Equal Treatment Act prohibits direct discrimination between people on grounds of disability or chronic illness, but indirectly it can. The question is, of course, where does that start and where does that end? Where can people who, because of their disability or chronic illness, have no insurance or are not able to obtain such a low-cost insurance as someone who is healthy turn to? We already know, for example, that you pay a higher premium in car insurance for cars of a certain colour, because this means that you run a higher risk on average. If that also applies to the expected healthcare costs abroad if you are chronically ill, it is of course a one-two that you have to pay a higher premium. The Minister didn't think it was necessary to submit the bill to the Human Rights College, but I think that would be a good thing. If this bill were passed, would the Minister still be prepared to submit it to the Human Rights College, at least before it is dealt with in the First Chamber? In order to prevent chronically ill and disabled people from being financially disadvantaged, you could introduce the obligation of acceptance. That's what all the parties have been asking about. Unfortunately, however, this cannot be done because there is a free market. This is hampered by the European Directive on the taking up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance, Solvency II. The only way to really avoid risk selection is to maintain world coverage. That is why I have tabled an amendment. I would just like to comment on the proposed savings of 60 million. We don't really see the current costs of care abroad. The Minister cannot clarify this either. She has had a conversation with two health insurance companies and they have said that around 400 million are spent abroad every year. According to them, around 15% are spent outside Europe, resulting in a saving of 60 million. But how much of that care is ultimately given to people who work abroad? After all, that will be reimbursed. How much care is reimbursed abroad, because people in the Netherlands cannot receive adequate care? If someone has to wait a long time for a treatment or if a particular treatment is not available in the Netherlands, but in the United States, then it is possible that a health insurance provider may tell such a person that he may receive the necessary care abroad. After all, the duty of care applies. Such a thing can also be part of the 15% and of the 60 million; we do not know that. It is suggested that all the bilateral agreements we have with countries on compensation for cases can be adapted. However, we have no guarantee of that, as the Minister indicated in the written debate. How much is that for the $60 million? We hear that implementation costs will increase and that procedures and conflicts will entail costs. Of the amount of healthcare costs reimbursed abroad, only the unforeseen costs of accident and illness of healthy people and the care costs of people who are chronically ill remain. However, people who are chronically ill can also go on holiday in Europe because they do not run the risk of having too expensive insurance. In this way, the costs simply move around. How much of the $60 million is left? I'm rounding up. This bill regulates something that Europe needs to do, namely the implementation of the Patient Directive. However, the largest core is the global coverage of the Health Insurance Act. We see the bill just being moved. We are paying them all now, but they will have to be paid individually. It is now €2 per person on an annual basis, if that 60 million is right. Soon it will be a ten or a hundred times that €2 for people. We don't know what it's gonna cost. The insurers do not yet know that either, and so they cannot yet indicate that. We are creating an enormous amount of bureaucracy, the savings are still unclear and there will probably be an exclusion of the chronic patient. In short, I actually come to the conclusion that we should not do this. I call on the entire Chamber to support the SP amendment. In this way, we can vote neatly for the implementation of the Patients Directive, without having to abolish world coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about cross-border care here and the question is how much we want to pay it collectively. With the present bill, the cabinet no longer wants to reimburse healthcare costs outside Europe. This should save EUR 60 million. This is a small amount on the total cost of care and that has been converted but €2 per contributor. However, this saving of €2 can have a major impact on Dutch travel outside Europe. The question is whether this small saving can be justified. Healthcare insurers The Netherlands even suggests that the savings are not 60 million euros but 35 million euros. First of all, I will deal with the estimated savings. We're wondering why we're getting an estimate. Surely every healthcare provider should be able to give an overview of payments made abroad, even outside Europe, within a day? If the health care provider can't do that himself, can't banks easily make such an overview? I would like to explain to the Minister why she does not come up with a better justification for the costs. I come to the removal of care outside Europe. How can that concern be removed? Some of that care will nevertheless be necessary and will take place either in Europe or in the Netherlands, and that must be paid for. Does the Minister have any insight into this shift? Can she tell us more about that? Or does the minister charge himself rich? It could turn out that we all save no €2 but only €1 premium per year. For this we then provide the world coverage at healthcare costs, and that at a time when we continue to travel and go on vacation longer and more often. Turkey, Egypt and Israel are popular destinations. Canada, America and Indonesia are no longer exotic destinations. We travel not only because of holidays, but also in the context of study, sporting events or family visits. Of course, you have to take all possible precautions to avoid getting sick on the way. That starts with having you informed and vaccinate if necessary. You can probably take all kinds of pills, but an accident or infection is in a small corner and can't be predicted. I therefore foresee that a large number of people will be travelling abroad uninsured or under-insured and may face high costs or, worse still, will be deprived of care. What does the Minister do for these people? What kind of support can she give them? According to the Minister, everyone can provide supplementary insurance through health insurance or travel insurance. This will undoubtedly cost more than that one euro saving. Anyone who sometimes travels outside Europe is more expensive with this bill anyway. Then we have to deal with different groups at risk, such as the chronically ill, the disabled and the elderly. They may be refused supplementary insurance or face a massive premium. They will not be able to book a bridge trip to Turkey, go on family visits or go to the World Cup football in Russia. So I do not think that the statement that everyone can be insured against healthcare costs outside Europe is valid. Or can they somehow count on the Minister's support? Here, by the way, is a winner of this bill, namely the health insurance company. Most people will want additional insurance after all, and that is once again the cash register for the health insurance companies. They have to pay less out of the basic package and continue to fill their pockets through the supplementary insurance. The PVV Group is aware that there is a lot of care money flowing to Turkey and Morocco: 5 million to Morocco and 10 million to Turkey. In the Netherlands about 400,000 Turks live and 1.2 million tourists go to Turkey according to the government. The cost per tourist is eight euros and a quarter. That's not so bad, really. Has the Minister considered introducing his own contribution to health care outside Europe? According to the ibo, healthcare insurers do indeed have control options for care outside Europe. For example, they can contract healthcare providers in holiday hotspots. If planned care needs to be notified in advance, the health insurance provider may select a preferred care provider. In case of emergency care, a patient can be escorted to the nearest hospital via an emergency control centre. Another reason to contract foreign care instead of excluding it is lower costs. The Netherlands has about the highest healthcare costs in the world. Care abroad is therefore generally cheaper. The fact that foreign healthcare providers use our compensation system to declare and fraud everything needs to be addressed. For example, arrange compensation on the basis of the country of residence principle. Has the Minister considered this? Finally, if the Minister were to work on the austerity of the basic package for asylum seekers, the savings of 60 million would be made faster than with this bill. For how fair is it, I ask the Minister, that Dutch people who pay such a high premium for their health insurance will not receive care abroad, while uninsured foreigners in the Netherlands will receive all the care they can wish for? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u4	I listened to Mrs Klever's speech. I have to conclude that the PVV thinks this bill is a very strange and bad idea. I have only heard arguments against it. I have here the Rutte I coalition agreement, which included Mr Wilders' signature. It says: "Outside the EU, care will no longer be covered by the basic package. It is assumed that bilateral agreements with Turkey, Morocco, Tunisia, Cape Verde, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will be amended or terminated. The agreement of the Contracting Party shall be required for adaptation. If it does not agree to change, the desired policy will be achieved by the termination of the Convention." That is exactly the bill before us today. What happened at the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr Rutte quotes a passage from the coalition agreement, but there was much more in that coalition agreement. For example, it said that immigration would be stopped and that the asylum influx would be stopped. But what does the Rutte II cabinet do, with the support of the VVD? The asylum influx has risen to a record level. Asylum seekers get free care here. They pay no premium, no own risk and no own contribution, but receive care from the basic package, plus a little more. The VVD does not do anything about this, but we find it unfair that all these uninsured foreigners, who do not pay any euro premium, receive free care here and that Dutch people who go abroad, have to pay extra for their care in that same country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u6	The PVV and the VVD will disagree more often. That can happen on topics. But I am simply quoting from a coalition agreement on which the PVV and the VVD agreed. I have almost literally seen this passage in the explanatory memorandum of this bill. Then I find it very strange that a measure, under which the PVV was signed and for which the PVV was simply straightforward and which is translated one-on-one into a legislative proposal, is now presented with rows of arguments as a bad bill. Can Mrs Klever explain this simply on the basis of the content of this bill in relation to what was in the coalition agreement at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr Rutte repeated his question. I can also repeat my answer. There was much more in the coalition agreement. It also said that the asylum influx would go down, but Rutte II made other choices. They're not our choices. The Rutte II cabinet has chosen to open the borders so that all these foreigners, all uninsured, can receive free care here. And the Dutch contributor can pay the bill. We think it is unfair that this Dutch contributor should not only pay his own account here, but also the account of all those foreigners and later his own account abroad. That's just unbalanced. If the Minister had dealt with the asylum influx or the care of asylum seekers, we might have been here in a different way, but it must be a little balanced. And it's not at the moment. At the moment the Dutch contributor is cut off on his care. We don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u8	I understand from this that this was a plan in the Rutte I coalition agreement that the PVV absolutely did not support. That is news, but I would like to return to the care of asylum seekers, who want to tackle the PVV. What kind of care do asylum seekers receive, which the PVV says can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u9	Firstly, asylum seekers do not pay a premium or a risk of their own. Asylum seekers who pay thousands of euros to travel through six, seven different countries and who arrive here in the Netherlands do not pay a premium. They get the same basic package as Dutch people and on top of that, what Dutch people don't get, they get physiotherapy, glasses, pills, no contribution for medicines, hearing aids, rollators, maternity care, you name it. Asylum seekers have a much more luxurious package than Dutch. The PVV says take that first. For asylum seekers, there must only be the necessary care. Besides, they have to pay. A lot of asylum seekers pay thousands of euros, so you can't tell me that they don't have the money to pay their care premium. Then we can see if we are going to talk about abolishing world coverage. The PVV cannot accept that we are reducing world coverage for Dutch people and that we leave the extensive luxury package for asylum seekers untouched.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u10	The fact that the PVV is talking about a luxury package for asylum seekers shows how far away this party is from reality. This also applies to the point that we can ask asylum seekers to pay for their care. If there is one party that says that PVV's are not allowed to work and are not allowed to make money, then it is the PVV. The moment we would allow people to work, you could ask a few questions. You can't say you can't make money, but you have to pay. That's not consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u11	Where you spoke of people who were not allowed to work, you probably meant asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u12	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u13	GroenLinks now brings in everything at once. It's fine, I'd like to have an asylum debate here, but I think we're talking about the cost of care. Again, if they get a bigger package than Dutch people, you can rightly call it a luxury package. If they get free glasses, pill and you name it, what Dutch people don't get, it's a luxury package. We know that GroenLinks prefers to take care of asylum seekers rather than their own, but the PVV makes other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u14	I would like to make sure that we are going to have an asylum debate here when it comes to the Health Insurance Act, but I leave it to Members, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u15	When the Rutte I cabinet took office and was supported by the PVV, it received 60 million as a saving. I asked where that came from, but the PVV then accepted it. Did the PVV have any questions at the time or was it more of a question of "who lives, who takes care of it, because the savings are only in the next cabinet"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u16	I think that when dealing with a bill, you deal with everything in substance. And that's what we're doing right now. I have questions about those 60 million, especially since the health insurance companies suggest they're not saying it's only 35 million. That leads me to doubt and then I want clarification from the Minister. I understand the SP wants that clarification, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u17	I think that's good. We are always asked by the government to provide solid support for plans, otherwise we will not be able to submit any initiatives. Now the government has a butter-soft financial underpinning. I note that this is not the first proposal supported by the PVV under Rutte I, while it backs it up now that it no longer supports the government. That's how it went with the hospital distribution of profits. I remember discussing this with a predecessor of Mrs Klever, and that the PVV was very much in favour of hospital distribution, and not later. This also shows that a lot was given away by the PVV at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u18	It is clear that the SP has never ruled or tolerated, otherwise it would also know how that goes. It's a little give and take a little. On one file you turn in something and you get something in return on the other file. That is also the case in the agreement on tolerance. So I hope for the SP that she will rule again someday. Then she'll know how these things work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u19	Mr. Chairman. Let's get back in time first. In the 1960s it was unique if you worked outside Europe, volunteered, studied or went on holiday for example. That was a rarity and it was only accessible to few people from the Netherlands. Flying to destinations outside Europe was extremely expensive. It was unpayable. How different it is today. People regularly travel to destinations outside Europe for short periods of time for their work. Young people study abroad for a few months or a year. If you are chronically ill, the good health care in many countries allows you to go on holiday with peace of mind. A chronically ill worker can also go abroad for his employer. His employer can rely on the fact that there will be no unexpectedly high bills in the event of illness. What is also so beautiful: many young people do voluntary work outside Europe. They build schools for children in Africa. They care for children in shelters in Brazil, and that is a lot for the Netherlands. In fact, this is also the added value of the current global coverage of health insurers. All these people, whether on holiday, volunteering or staying in different qualities outside Europe, are assured of good care when going on holiday outside Europe. Of course, you hope nothing happens to you, but sometimes an accident can be in a really small corner. The Minister wants, and indeed this is another measure from the previous cabinet, to abolish world coverage. In the view of the Minister, that would be EUR 60 million. At best, this would mean a reduction of €1 in the premium that we all have to pay to the health insurance provider. During the written procedure, the CDA asked many questions to the Minister about its support for the EUR 60 million. The CDA has also asked a lot of questions about the cost of the extra insurance that people will have to take out. The CDA has asked about the position of chronically ill later on with that extra insurance. Can they take out an extra insurance policy like that? How much more do they have to pay than healthy people? The Minister answers all these questions with sentences like: I don't know, I'm not sure, we'll never know, I hope it's like, I trust it's gonna be okay, it's just an estimate. The CDA welcomes the fact that the Minister is so open and honest about this, but that also gives the CDA concerns about the added value of this bill. That means I still have a lot of questions for the Minister. For those who still had hope that they would get out of The Hague before the performance of Bruce Springsteen, I have bad news. I know that the Minister's support always writes very hard and ensures that all questions are answered. I can tell them it's 22 questions. I counted them for a while. The Minister writes that she does not consider it appropriate to investigate the amounts involved in achieving the Treaty adjustments. That is remarkable, because the purpose of this bill is to achieve a reduction. The Council of State points out that there are doubts as to whether the savings will be made, partly because of the uncertainty about the adaptation of treaties. We are already talking about a supposed loss of savings of EUR 10 million per year until the treaty with Turkey has been amended. As Turkey itself has indicated that it does not want to cooperate, we will not soon see any savings here. Then why does the Minister keep saying that the bill will save 60 million? Why is the Minister not prepared to better underpin the main objective of her bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u20	I understand Mrs Bruins Slot has 22 questions about this bill. Of course, that's her right. But the CDA just signed this measure without asking all those questions, right? I am so surprised that Mrs Bruins Slot now suddenly has questions, while she was before it in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u21	It may be the PvdA who always signs blind with measures, but that's not how I understand the PvdA either. However, it is very good to see what the plans are working on in practice. And then I am very shocked, because the justification over the past six years has indeed been quite buttery. Both the Council of State and the health insurance companies warn that the effects will be a mess. So the question is what consideration should you make in order for this bill to go through or not to go through. I have questions for the Minister. When you ask 22 questions, it doesn't look like this is going to be a workable whole. Or are we going to help people off shore in the ditch to abolish world cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u22	The concerns are justified. We also have a number of questions; that is fine. But let us be honest: the CDA has signed a coalition agreement and signed for this measure, just signed it. The great, theatrical amazement about this doesn't quite fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u23	Look, if they're bad measures, you need to see if you can solve things differently. I think that the proceeds of this bill may be very disappointing in the years to come, that the 60 million will not be achieved and that the 45 million will not be achieved either. That is why I am certainly prepared to propose an alternative in terms of coverage. That seems very sensible to me, because that way we can make sure that we get enough money in another way, without leaving a lot of people in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u24	That Mrs. Bruins Slot is willing to consider alternative coverage is welcome. But apart from that, in 2010 the CDA signed a coalition agreement. There was no doubt about this measure. I have just said to Mrs Klever that the passage in that coalition agreement is almost literally in the law. So in that respect, this law complies with exactly what the CDA wanted at the time and what it signed up for. It may well be that we are a little vague about the feasibility of this measure, but the foundation of what is in it should logically still be what the CDA wants. May I point out that if there are still doubts on some points, the CDA will come up with an amendment to maintain the same objective, perhaps with more legal certainty about the proceeds? Is it something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u25	A lot of measures from Rutte I were implemented differently because the feasibility was just very bad. Look at the limitations that should be on the basic package. They're filled in differently, with strict package management. I think it is my responsibility as a Member of Parliament to review every time whether a measure is feasible and will produce sufficient money. If that's not the case, you're looking at an alternative. I think that we will be able to achieve that revenue of 45 million or 60 million tonnes by increasing the excise duty on smoke products. That seems to me to be an excellent solution to ensure that we make health gains and that people do not have to deal with the abolition of world coverage. I hope the VVD sees this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u26	I hope that Mrs Bruins Slot has aligned her measure, on behalf of the CDA Group, to increase the excise duty on smoke products with her colleague Mr Omtzigt, before she gets very angry again about all the border effects of that measure. Apart from that, Mrs Bruins Slot is also hitting another measure from Rutte I, namely strict package management. Let that be something that we have translated into the present and what is also very successful. Why should this not apply to this measure? Why is the CDA running away from that now, at least, it looks like it's actually signed for it, without ifs and buts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u27	No, we are talking about other measures, which have not gone ahead and for which strict package management has replaced them. Let me make one thing clear. Mr Omtzigt has never mentioned smoking in all his discussions on border effects, which is indeed a dramatic measure for all the people who run the petrol station in the border region. It was always about diesel, never about tobacco duty. I am actually very pleased that the VVD indicates that it is in favour of further discouragement of smoking. We've seen different things lately here in the Chamber. Perhaps the Minister will convince the CDA, otherwise I would not ask all these questions either. But if it isn't, it would be nice if we could just turn in something else for this bill. I can see the D66 spokesperson nodding. Even the spokesperson of the PvdA is getting excited right now. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks nods, Mrs Leijten van de SP still has doubts. Well, this might be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u28	Interpreting body language may be a bit tricky sometimes. I can tell Mrs. Bruins Slot I wasn't nodding, but I was laughing. This was indeed due to the comments on the increase in tobacco duty. When D66 spoke of this, my party was not supported by the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u29	I understand Mrs Dijkstra's saying this. The measure that she put in place at the time was so horrible that we finally chose something else. I would say to Mrs Dijkstra that you must use it for the good. We're talking about world cover now. I should now like to await the Minister's response. Maybe she can take away all the concerns about this. That is why we are holding this debate. If the reaction is not good, then the CDA has an alternative; let me put it this way. I come to the amendment of the agreement with Morocco. Reading the French text shows that there is still a compensation for acute care. Press reports made us believe something else. What is the amount of money to be paid for the adaptation of the Morocco agreement? What is acute care and what care is not? Where's the border? Which care will be reimbursed and which will not? We are talking about Turkey and Morocco, but there are also uncertainties about the future of the various Balkan countries. These are now placed out of coverage, but could be covered within a few years. How much so-called "saving loss" would that produce in the long term? Why doesn't the Minister include this in her calculations? The PvdA has tabled an amendment on chronically ill. The CDA naturally welcomes the thrust of this amendment. However, can the Minister tell us what she considers to be a loss of savings? So if the PvdA amendment is adopted and the bill is also adopted, what does that amendment have to do with the loss of savings? And what would the adoption of the amendment mean for the implementation costs of health insurers? In fact, if the amendment is adopted, they should always allow chronically ill people to go on holiday abroad. Healthcare insurers must then give them permission to go abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u30	With our amendment, we want to make an exception for chronically ill and disabled people. I'm glad the CDA is positive about that. Still, I'm not sure. I hear that Mrs Bruins Slot is very concerned about the administrative burden on health insurers. Does that mean that Mrs Bruins Slot is more concerned about health insurers than about chronically ill and disabled people? Or did I hear that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u31	Of course Mrs Bouwmeester heard that wrong. I believe that the problems arise on both sides. On the one hand, I believe that there will be a great deal of implementation costs and problems because chronically ill people, as well as other people, do not have enough insurance or uninsured holidays outside Europe. On the other hand, there will soon be a whole circus of new insurance agencies, which are all going to offer separate insurances. There will be a lot of social money in that too. And of course there are also the traditional health insurers who, because of the amendment proposed by Mrs Bouwmeester, will soon be obliged to allow any chronically ill or disabled person who wishes to travel outside Europe to do so. In this way, different administrative towers are built next to each other. With that in mind, I would like to ask the key question: what savings will be made compared to the EUR 60 million that the Minister proposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u32	Mrs Bruins Slot therefore agrees with the Labour Party that we must ensure that chronically ill and disabled people can receive the care they need everywhere. I understand that, don't I? They should not be faced with an unnecessary barrier. I thank Mrs Bruins Slot for this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u33	Of course, the position of chronically ill and disabled people is paramount at the CDA. This, however, still makes this legislative proposal much difficult to implement. There is a further need for sub-categories. And when is someone chronically ill? How are health insurance companies going to make the demands for this? What is the limit? It is good that we pay attention to these groups, but this sometimes makes things a bit more difficult. I come to my next question to the Minister. What is the loss of savings resulting from the exception that is now included in the legislative proposal for workers? Why is this not taken from the EUR 60 million? The Minister writes that behavioural effects cannot be taken into account, for example the effect that fewer people outside Europe go on holiday or people do not call on care until they have returned from their holidays. Therefore, those securities have not been included in the amount. Why is there no margin of uncertainty for this? We are also talking about replacement insurance. The health insurance companies themselves state that they do not yet know how they are going to do this and what they will look like. They also argue that there is little to say about costs. We might then make a saving on this bill, which is unclear, but is the bill ultimately not paid by the citizen? What does this mean for the implementation costs of health insurers? The Minister also states that it is unknown how much health insurance is going to cost outside Europe for whom. That may also make sense, because the health insurance companies themselves also indicate that they really do not know what this is going to do. However, it is the responsibility of the Minister to see if she can find out, because the General Court in particular has pointed out over the past period that we need to be more attentive to the implementation of legislative proposals. That is why I would like to make another attempt with the Minister: how much is an extra insurance for healthcare costs outside Europe going to cost? How much will it cost for a healthy and chronically ill Dutchman? Can the Minister guarantee that any chronically ill person will soon be able to take out an additional health insurance for outside Europe? Can she tell me how much they'll have to pay up later? In fact, the Minister has not yet incorporated the PvdA's amendment. The Minister cannot guarantee that there will be affordable replacement insurance, but on the basis of the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of Disability or Chronic Disease, insurers should not exclude anyone because they are chronically ill or disabled, for example. How is this monitored? Who is called upon if there is no offer for certain sick people? In this context, the Human Rights College has asked whether we should not simply look at this bill on the basis of whether or not chronically ill people are discriminated against. Wouldn't the Minister be willing to submit the bill to the College of Human Rights for advice? Several groups have asked for this. Then I come to a question that the SP Group has also asked, but I will repeat it just to be sure. The Minister states that an acceptance obligation for replacement insurance cannot be because it does not comply with the rules of Solvency II. Isn't that a reason to maintain world coverage, because you keep the border very vague and grey? Then we have the exceptions. They came through the letter of amendment. A delegation basis shall be established by letter of amendment to lay down, under ministerial arrangements, detailed rules for the conditions under which the exception may apply to workers abroad. The government states, for example, that requirements can be imposed on the minimum duration of the work or that a certain period of residence outside Europe must be preceded by the health insurance provider. The government's intention is to limit the exceptions and to do justice to the original intention of that exception. It is still not quite clear to the CDA what that original intention is. Can the Minister explain it? Why should individuals be expected to provide additional insurance if they are travelling outside Europe and not from workers or employers? Why should a minimum duration of work be included in the scheme? More and more people go abroad for one or two days. That's a good thing sometimes, because when someone attends a conference, you don't want them to be abroad for a week at the expense of a company. What about the administrative burden of this bill? If employees have to report to the insurer every time they travel outside Europe, do they have to provide proof that it is for their work? How does this work? And how are insurers going to control that? Can insured persons, as an insurer, find that the insured person has not sufficiently proven that he or she was abroad for work? What about self-employed people? Are they included in the exceptions? Or do they only fall under the exceptions in certain cases? How can they prove that they are staying outside Europe for their work? Then we have people who are outside Europe for study, training, internship or volunteering. They will have to provide replacement care for themselves. Why is no exception made for them? Holidays are fun, but these are people who are all going to do useful things: they are internships, volunteering or in training. How much extra costs does it entail if, for example, they go to the United States, Canada or Australia? What impact does it have on young people and adults who, for example, want to volunteer in third world countries or go abroad for study or training to increase their knowledge? Who can these people go to when they have a conflict with health insurers or other health insurance companies about the reimbursement of care outside Europe? And who can have insurance if it turns out that they were uninsured outside Europe while they had taken out an extra insurance policy? Of course, it is also very difficult to ask yourself in advance: what can happen to me abroad? In short, it is true that this proposal was in the coalition agreement years ago. It is always good to see what this means in the execution. After serious criticism by the Council of State, health insurance companies and patients' associations, it seems that this may still be very difficult to implement, that it can cost a lot of extra money and ultimately yield little. So the question is whether we should do this. Or is it a matter of looking for another way in which we can achieve the same result? The CDA wants to look at that in terms of soundness and criticalness. I have just made a proposal in the debate on how we might achieve the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u34	22 questions from the CDA: that's impressive. They were all included in the report and were answered in the note on the basis of the report. So the CDA is apparently not satisfied. What does it take for the CDA to be convinced by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u35	Anyway, a harder basis for the figures. The Minister has now made an estimate of two insurers and provided a firmer basis for the savings losses. She has also better filled out what the insurance will look like, what they're going to cost and who she's going to offer. Mrs. Dijkstra has seen it well. These are indeed all questions that we asked in the written round and on which the answers were quite indefinite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u36	That is exactly why I am asking Mrs Bruins Slot. Of course, we have that written round for a reason. In fact, I don't hear the CDA go one step further and ask for it more deeply. It's pure curiosity on my part: what exactly is there to come out of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u37	It is indeed a question of getting deeper into it. We have received a number of answers from the Ministry, which they have done their best. However, there are a lot of uncertainties in the answers: we are not sure, we cannot estimate it, we still have to conclude certain treaties, we do not know what insurers are doing. Insurance companies confirm that, too. My job as a CDA'er is then to get a clearer idea of the effects of this bill, how hard the savings are and how we can achieve them. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u38	At my first interruption, the whole discussion seemed to be mainly about money. This is certainly a measure that saves money, but it is also a measure of principle. The government agreement of the Rutte I cabinet states literally, in substance, that "outside the EU, care will no longer be covered by the basic package'. There's nothing there about excise duties on smoking and all that kind of stuff. There is something that the CDA wanted at the time, namely that there would no longer be world coverage for care from the basic package outside the EU. Does the CDA still think so or not? I'd like to be clear about that. We don't have to ask 22 questions first. Does the CDA still think this is a good idea in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u39	No. In 2010, the then cabinet was really looking for savings measures to control public expenditure. A lot of measures were proposed at that time. And what do you mean, "in principle"? The point is that you can do something that allows you to provide people with good care. The question is whether this might not be a dragon of a bill that will cause people to fall apart as soon as it is implemented. That's where you have to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u40	The content of this measure, which the CDA considers to be complex, is thus reflected in a complex context. Many other measures in a similar context have been supported by the CDA in recent years, such as no longer exporting benefits abroad, for example child benefit and so on. All these measures have received the support of the CDA, because the CDA considered it fundamentally incorrect that we should continue to do so. This is a form of export of healthcare costs to outside the EU. Doesn't the CDA now consider this to be a mistake in principle? Has that changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u41	No, I've never looked at this issue that way. In 2010, an important task was to ensure that public expenditure was controlled. This was part of it. It is now apparent from the study of the bill that several authoritative bodies, such as the Council of State, indicate that the feasibility is likely to become a dragon. It is then your job as a Member of Parliament to see if there are alternatives to achieve the same. However, I do not see Mr Rutte's substantive weighting. This is about people who do volunteer work, who work, who internship and who in part do indeed go on vacation. I see just a law that is likely to cause real problems in implementation. It is then my job as a Member of Parliament to see if we can find something else that will enable us to achieve the same thing. I think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u42	Mr. Chairman. Every year new medicines, treatments and therapies are added in the Netherlands. Diseases which appeared to be incurable ten years ago are increasingly fully or partially curable. Still, people are worried. They are concerned about whether they will receive the care they need and whether they will receive compensation for the cost of that care. At the same time, there is, unjustly, the persistent perception that the healthcare package is being further stripped every year, while it is precisely every year that new, often expensive treatments and medicines are being introduced into the basic package. We will talk about this again next Thursday when we talk about the package. However, in order to ensure that we can continue to include new treatments and medicines in the package in the future, it is very important that we look very closely at the usefulness and necessity of the content of the package. It is important that we take seriously the concerns of people who are wondering whether they are getting the care they need. Where possible, we should try to remove these concerns by putting together the basic package in such a way that people can trust them to receive the right care. One of the main principles of our healthcare system is solidarity between sick and healthy. We think it is perfectly normal for everyone to pay a premium, because no one can predict in advance when he or she gets sick and needs care. But in order to maintain that solidarity, it is important that people feel that the costs are shared fairly. This is not the case for foreign coverage under the Health Insurance Act at the moment, because Mien, who is on the Hasselt campsite every year, is currently forced to show solidarity with Jan, who will travel for three months in Southeast Asia. We find it quite normal that those who are travelling take out insurance for their luggage, for cancellations or for the rental car in which they are going to drive. Actually, it's just as normal when you go on holiday to insure yourself for the cost of care that you might need abroad. Because why should Mien have to pay from the Hasselt campsite for the cost of Jan's surfing happiness in Southeast Asia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u43	We have just noticed from the little debate between Mr Rutte of the VVD and Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA that the VVD is adopting a principled attitude. Could Mr Rutte of the VVD explain to me the fundamental difference between a pensionado that overwinters in Spain and someone who chooses to overwinter in Morocco?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u44	The difference is that Spain is part of the European Union. The insured package must, by definition, extend to the European Union; regulations oblige us to do so and Morocco is outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u45	So that is the principle of the VVD: it is either within the European Union or outside the European Union. I would ask Mr Rutte if it is right in principle, and he has just started speaking about principles himself, that a Dutch person who is sick within the European Union is more important than a Dutch person who is sick outside the European Union. Is that what he's saying here now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u46	For the VVD it is important that we can maintain a solidarity-based care system and that we therefore look very critically at the boundaries of the coverage of the system. If you're gonna have foreign cover, you're gonna have to draw a line somewhere, as far as we're concerned. A logical border is that of the European Union. If you draw a line somewhere, you'll always have countries outside. Otherwise, by definition, you come up with the principle that foreign coverage should be unlimited. We don't think that's right. I just explained why not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u47	Mrs Leijten has another question on this point, and then Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u48	I was gonna put my glasses back on, but I'm gonna have to keep them off for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u49	You can hold off on that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u50	When the VVD talks about solidarity, I'm on the edge of my chair! I don't quite understand the comparison between the camping in Hasselt and the surfing holiday in the Pacific. Isn't it true that both of them are paying care contributions and are therefore participating in our solidarity system? Let's change it. Why should the person who works in India be covered but can the person who does volunteer work in Angola, who builds a school there or helps with a health care project, not be covered? Can Mr Rutte tell us the difference between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u51	I certainly can. The employer already pays a very large part of the Health Insurance Act: half of the contribution is paid by that employer. It would be unreasonable if he had to pay again if he had to send employees abroad. That's why we're drawing the line there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u52	Oh, but doesn't the employer just pay a premium for the gentleman or the lady at the campsite? I don't get it that well. I have also seen Mr Rutte's reasoning in the Minister's replies. The employer also pays a premium for all those people who go on holiday, whether within the European Union or in Switzerland, where we are allowed to go with world coverage, or outside? For all these people, it is very bad if they are faced with high care costs and may get stuck or can't go home, for example because transport to the Netherlands or the bill cannot be paid? The questions about this have all remained unanswered in relation to the bill. Is it really that basic? Or is it a wanted argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u53	Half of all contributions in our country are paid through employers. We shouldn't forget that. The employer therefore already pays a very large proportion of the care premium. If he has employees who also have to go abroad, he would have to pay a further premium for that. We find that unreasonable. That is why we can also justify this exception. I think that is extremely reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u54	Mr Rutte asks why Mien has to pay for the care costs of Jan who gets a surfing happiness in Southeast Asia at the Hasselt campsite. Isn't the answer to that question: because we have a solidarity care system, because Jan who goes on holiday in Southeast Asia also pays for the costs related to Mien's bicycle accident at the campsite in Hasselt? Isn't that just the system we have: a solidarity-based care system?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u55	We have a solidarity care system. The VVD would like to vouch for that. That's incredibly important. However, if you want to maintain solidarity, you must also dare to be critical of the limits of solidarity. We do not choose to give less care, but we think it is reasonable that there should be a limit somewhere on the countries in which that coverage applies. I really want to tell Mrs Klever that in the past the health insurance fund only had coverage for the Netherlands. Every health insurance customer who went abroad had to provide supplementary insurance. Due to European rules, coverage has been extended to Europe. That is what we had to do, and so we did it under European pressure. The PVV will be very sorry to hear that. However, under European pressure that has become a cover for Europe. In fact, when the Health Insurance Act came into force, that became a world coverage unnoticed. In retrospect, we then went beyond what is actually reasonable and normal. With this bill, we're going back to normal. In order to maintain solidarity, you also have to have the courage to agree borders once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u56	Perhaps Mr Rutte should use the health insurance argument in the SP, because I do not think that I have ever argued for a return to the health insurance fund. Mr Rutte says that we must set limits. But we hear this minister and also Mr Rutte often say that the Netherlands has the most expensive care system in the world. So if Jan gets a surfing happiness in the Netherlands, this obviously means that he incurs higher care costs than when Jan gets a surfing happiness in Southeast Asia. Wouldn't it be very clever, in that context, to maintain that world coverage in order to lower healthcare costs in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u57	The curative care system, the Health Insurance Act that we are talking about here, is not at all the most expensive in the world. If we stack all care in the Netherlands, including long-term care through the Long-Term Care Act and care through the Wmo, then we are the most expensive. If we only look at the Health Insurance Act, the costs in the Netherlands are no higher than the average European rate. Mrs Klever knows that, but uses this argument of opportunity. Apart from that, her argument doesn't add up. People go abroad, and that's where their things can happen. Then they use the care that is needed at that time. You just have to ask yourself whether the person who goes on holiday within Europe always has to pay for someone who travels a long way. He can afford anything and also assures everything. He pays for that expensive trip and can also provide additional targeted insurance. In fact, we do not think that is more than normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u58	I just heard Mr Rutte say that solidarity is being put under pressure by, among other things, world coverage. Can he back that up? Mr Rutte pointed out how it used to be, namely that only cover was paid for in the Netherlands. How much extra money has that world coverage cost now and how do we solve it suddenly because of this particular measure, this 60 million savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u59	In principle, this is what is at stake. If solidarity is to guarantee a very broad coverage for everyone in this country, then you must dare to be critical of what really is part of the solidarity system. So you must also dare to define boundaries. Not only will this specific measure contribute to the maintenance of solidarity, but this is one of the measures that you will be able to take, and as far as we are concerned, to ensure solidarity. If we never dare to set a limit on what is part of the insured package, solidarity will end. That's what we need to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u60	I note that Mr Rutte's answer to my question as to whether he can support this is: no, I cannot. I have another question. If this means that people with lower incomes say 'let's not go on holiday outside Europe, but within Europe', then surely this does not lead to the savings that the cabinet is aiming at? What does the VVD do? Should other measures be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u61	I think that's a complicated argument. People choose where they travel and how far they travel. This choice will always depend partly on their budget. Low-income people will move around South America less quickly than high-income people. It's that simple. Mrs Voortman states that I did not answer her question. That's what I want to fight. I will answer her question very clearly. I am saying that this is one of the measures you need to take to ensure solidarity. It is not a question of the specific nature of this measure and of the end of solidarity if we do not take these measures, but of the courage, as politicians, to redefine the borders once in a while to maintain that broad package. This is one of the measures that you can take for this, and that is why I support him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u62	I would like to return to Mr Rutte's reasoning. He said that he can well motivate the exception for workers like VVDs, because employers pay all their own contributions. What about people who are self-employed without staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u63	It's a good thing you said that. I'll get right on that. In our view,zzp'ers should also be covered by the functioning of this law. Mrs Bruins Slot already mentioned the additional ministerial arrangement to be introduced, also in response to questions from the VVD. We wholeheartedly support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u64	That doesn't mean in all cases thatzzp'er pays extra. On the basis of that principle, how is Mr Rutte going to make the difference between those who paid or did not pay the additional contribution? Where does he put the line?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u65	Zzp'ers do indeed pay an increased own contribution, other than the normal workers in whom the employer pays it. Zzp'ers pay extra for that. We also believe that it is important for workers abroad to be able to do their things. Mr. Chairman. I think I can move on. If you can pay for an expensive trip, it is only normal that you prepare yourself well and provide additional health insurance, if needed. We are not doing anything crazy, but we are going back to normal and guaranteeing long-term solidarity, as I indicated in a number of interrupting debates. This bill makes an exception for people residing abroad as a result of their work. Following questions from the VVD, the Minister decided to extend this exception tozzp'ers. The VVD is happy with that. It's a major improvement on this bill. It is very important for people with disabilities or disabilities to be able to ensure that they are able to cover possible costs of care abroad. It is very important that insurance is also available for chronically ill and disabled people and that it is ensured that care is also available for them abroad. Does the UN Convention play a role in this for people with disabilities? This Convention prohibits the general exclusion of services for people with disabilities. Can this bill contribute to exerting pressure on insurers to actually offer these products towards chronically ill and disabled people? I would like to hear a further explanation from the Minister. I'm gonna finish up. The VVD strongly supports the solidarity that characterises our healthcare system. It is normal for people who are healthy to show solidarity with people who are not. In order to guarantee good care, also in the future, it is important that we go back to normal. The VVD therefore wholeheartedly supports the movement that the Minister is making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u66	I have another question about the financial picture of this measure. If we have to believe Mr Rutte's speech, this is really necessary, because if we do not do so, the end of our solidarity system will be lost. The 60 million mentioned by the Minister is in fact questioned by everyone. There are a number of treaties included that cannot be denounced. Moved care has not been taken into account. Maybe health care costs no longer lead people to a far-away country, but to a foreign country close by, which means that they are still covered. It has also not been taken into account that the healthcare costs of people working abroad will continue to be reimbursed. The assumption that the $60 million will be made is actually rather soft. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u67	First of all, back to the beginning of Mrs Leijten's question, because there was a remark in it that I would suggest that we should take this measure under very urgent circumstances, otherwise it would be the end of solidarity. That's really a persiflage of what I said. I said that we must dare to take such measures in order to ensure long-term solidarity. We hardly ever get anything out of the package. We very much support that. Other measures, such as strict package management, will bring us a long way, but this is a measure that we could take. I have seen harsher budgetary arguments, but that does not mean that it is wrong at all and that the EUR 60 million is not right at all. I expect that we will achieve that EUR 60 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u68	That's good to know. The next time one or two health insurance companies say during a good conversation that 60 million over the thumb is a solid cover, we know that the VVD agrees. If I'm standing there proposing something the VVD doesn't believe in, it'll have to go through the X-ray again 80 times before she does. But if the Minister is proposing something that is raging on all sides, not the least, namely the health insurers themselves, the Council of State and, in fact, everyone who looks at it, say that it is butter-soft, then it is okay. So if we make a proposal, it is not. I'll remember to measure that with double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u69	That's a little too easy. If it turns out that the savings are not achieved, the VVD always takes responsibility to realize them. We are going to do this, and if the Minister says it comes with EUR 60 million, we should certainly do it. But if it is very disappointing, we will simply have to take additional measures and we are in favour of them, as we always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u70	In fact, I hardly see it, not even in other debates in other committees, that the VVD adopts legislative proposals without overlooking their budgetary impact, but let alone that. Mr Rutte just said something very important, namely that additional measures can be taken. Could that also mean that we withdraw the proposal before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u71	Anything is possible, but I'm not in favour of it. I have just explained in detail why we think this is a good measure. I don't see why we should withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u72	Because the budgetary effects are unclear. The question is very specific: if the budgetary measure does not bring about the proposed austerity, would the VVD be prepared to withdraw the bill and try something else? That's a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u73	On a simple question, the answer is sometimes very complex, but in this case I can also give a simple answer: no, we should not do that. I think it is the right thing to do in principle. An estimate of EUR 60 million has been made. I trust this will be realised. Maybe it'll be easier; then it'll be even more. If we are against it, we will have to develop additional policies in order to remain within the budgetary framework. That's my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u74	I have a factual question. How much money is being spent on care provided outside Europe? What's the total amount we're spending on that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u75	I don't participate in quiz questions; I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u76	The answer is right, because we also do not know how much we spend on it. How many of these do we spend on people who are working, volunteering, studying or on vacation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u77	These are all detailed questions that Mrs Bruins Slot has already asked the Minister. She didn't do that for nothing. She'll get an answer to that. However, an estimate of 60 million has been made of the austerity involved in this law. That 60 million will have to be realized, hopefully with this law. I have faith in that. If it's a problem, we always have to take additional measures. Apart from that, the VVD considers this to be fundamentally good measures, unlike Mrs Bruins Slot. That's what we stand for. We are therefore a very fundamental party in this respect. If we've ever signed up for anything, we still stand for it. I'm not running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u78	Mrs Bruins Slot, we're actually doing interruptions in two, but your questions were exceptionally short, so you can ask a short third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u79	Mr Rutte says very clearly again: we do not know that. He also says very clearly that it is an estimate of EUR 60 million. Isn't it wise, if you take measures, to take a very good look at what it's gonna cost and what it's gonna cost? If you have any serious doubts about that, you should really look at alternatives. I share with the VVD that we have to deal wisely with the money we spend from the Lower House. We'll find each other in that. But there are really serious doubts about this. Is Mr Rutte prepared to consider possible alternatives if they lead to the same kind of results? Or does the principle weigh too much to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u80	Interesting is Mrs Bruins Slot's choice for the words "the same result." A result is not only the financial return, but also what you want to achieve in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u81	Financially, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u82	I think that was clear to Mr Rutte. He's continuing his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u83	Yeah, but it does matter. I am not just making legislation here because it provides money or costs money, but also because we find something with each other. We think it is fundamentally wrong that Mien at the campsite in Renesse pays for those who have a surfing happiness in Argentina. We do stand for financial solidity. So that EUR 60 million will have to be realized. If that does not work with this legislative proposal, which I think is premature to say now, then you will always have to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u84	I would also like to continue with the 60 million savings. What is within the 60 million we spend on care outside Europe, planned care? I'm talking about the care trips to laser your eyes, for example, or for a new knee. Does Mr Rutte have any idea how much of that is planned care?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u85	I must remain guilty of this too. It's not a quiz here. I don't know exactly. It is a question that Mrs Klever might ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u86	I asked the Minister the same question. If that is planned care, we can assume that this care will shift to the Netherlands, because it has to be done anyway, which will reduce the savings of 60 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u87	I leave that observation to Mrs Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u88	Mr. Chairman. Since the introduction of the Health Insurance Act, it has been crystal clear. From the basic insurance you are insured for care worldwide. Whether you are on an internship, working, studying or simply on a holiday, whether you have a high or low income, whether you have no good health, are young or old, medically necessary care is guaranteed for everyone worldwide. But this minister wants to limit that. You are only insured within the European Union, the European Economic Area, as it is so beautifully called, the EEA, and Switzerland. Reading this bill does cause some confusion at D66. For was it not this minister who has just finished the year of transparency and wants to make the healthcare system simpler and easier to understand? As far as we are concerned, this proposal is contradictory. I do not want to leave the criticism of the Council of State unnamed. I quote: 'Not convincing in advance, on points unclear and unbalanced'. The Council of State also wonders whether the savings can be achieved. We've just heard a whole interrupt debate about it. I would add that the patients' associations and health insurers are incredibly unanimous in their judgment. They, too, find the cuts debatable. They provide an unnecessarily complex implementation of this bill. They believe that the bill does not make it impossible for chronically ill to provide supplementary insurance. D66 is therefore curious to see why the Minister wants to go through with it. I'll divide my surprise about this bill into pieces. I'll start with the chronically ill. In the Netherlands, we have more than 5 million chronically ill people. That's a third of the population. For example, they suffer from diabetes or rheumatism. For those who want to travel, work or internship outside Europe, this bill has major consequences. The Minister states that they too will soon be able to provide additional insurance for stays abroad, but I would like to remind her that insurance companies have no obligation to accept supplementary insurance, which they know better than anyone. We are therefore very concerned about the chronically ill. How are they supposed to provide additional insurance if they want to go outside Europe for holidays, internships, studies and so on? If the insurer does allow additional insurance, what will this be at? That is what my group is really worried about. The bill is surrounded by question marks. One of these concerns the grounds for exception. If you are for work or occupation abroad, you can claim reimbursement of care, but if that is outside Europe, you have to demonstrate this in advance in the hope that the insurer agrees. But when you're internship or studying, you're not under this exception again. My group believes that this is wrong and that it causes unnecessary confusion. I have another example of that demarcation. The explanatory memorandum states that care outside the EU, the EEA and Switzerland is permitted if it cannot be delivered within a reasonable period of time within the EU, the EEA or Switzerland. That sounds very reasonable, but what is a reasonable period of time and who will ultimately decide whether or not to take care outside the EU? We have just talked about the 60 million that the Minister hopes to save with this proposal. However, that amount seems to be based on wet fingering. After all, we do not know whether we spend 60 million on care outside Europe every year through the Health Insurance Act. In its replies, the Minister indicated that the costs of care outside the Netherlands are not recorded in a uniform manner and that the answer to the questions is therefore necessarily based on estimates and assumptions. I think it is quite something to say that we are going to save 60 million, when we are actually basing it on estimates and assumptions. On top of all this, the question is how much we can save if we sell it against the extra costs that will be required for information to explain all the exceptions. In addition, in order to achieve savings, bilateral agreements must be terminated or amended, and this often takes several years. The Minister herself indicated that, but she has already booked the 60 million for next year. Is that realistic? This is not a change that can be made by informing citizens about it only once. A major change such as this, where the grounds for exception are complex and opaque, involves years of structural information. The National Contact Point is a nice initiative, but D66 is concerned about the correct information provision for insured persons. I'm closing up. It is clear that D66 has serious objections to this bill. The thin argument of a possible cost reduction does not at present outweigh the disadvantages for chronically ill and other Dutch insured persons. In short, the Minister's answers are of great importance to my group in the assessment of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u89	Mr. Chairman. If it is up to the Minister, care outside Europe will no longer be reimbursed. That and the implementation of the government agreement's intention are the main objectives of the bill we are discussing today. This can have quite an impact and for that reason I expected a good basis for this decision and for the legislative amendment. I would also have expected an answer to the question of whether people should not incur more costs, whether the legal certainty of people is guaranteed, whether it is feasible and whether the Minister is making cuts. However, from the legal documents I do not deduce what problem this legislative proposal solves. In addition to the removal of world coverage, there are indeed a number of other issues being dealt with, but the most important part of the law, the removal of world coverage, seems to be completely out of control. The only justification for this is that it can save EUR 60 million. But is it? Even health insurers indicate that the implementation costs of the legislative change do not outweigh the benefits, and that there are many doubts about the expected savings. Aren't we going to get into a lot of trouble to find out after a while that it didn't just cost more money, but that it also caused more uncertainty? GroenLinks likes to hear from the Minister who has been served by this bill. At least that is not the state treasury and insurers, and certainly not the patient. GroenLinks believes that the Minister should really take these signals seriously, and that she should also consider whether she wants to pursue this measure. Apart from the desirability of the measure and the legislative proposal, GroenLinks questions the feasibility of this law. After all, there is also an exception in the law for people residing abroad for their work. At the moment, the situation is clear: if you are insured under the Health Insurance Act, you are also entitled to foreign coverage. But it will soon be limited to people who stay abroad for their work. Is that so easy to determine? Several speakers mentioned the example of azzp'er who is for a job abroad or someone who does volunteering. Of course, you can also think of people who combine work and holidays. I therefore share the concerns of health insurers, who have to do this and who are wondering whether it is so easy to establish, because it is not at all clear when someone meets the conditions. How are people supposed to prove that? The Council of State is also critical of this. Can the Minister respond to that criticism? The Minister writes in the letter of amendment that she wishes to clarify this by ministerial regulation. But isn't this definition, as well as legal certainty, too important to regulate under ministerial rules? People who go on holiday can insure care abroad through travel insurance or supplementary insurance, the Minister states. GroenLinks wonders if it is that easy. The basic package of the Health Insurance Act is subject to the acceptance obligation. Supplementary insurance and private travel insurance are not subject to this obligation. This affects the legal certainty of people. We do not share the optimism of the Minister, who says that it will not go so fast with the accessibility of insurance. I hope that the Minister will at least delete the part on abolishing world coverage in basic health insurance from this bill. The Labour Party has tabled an amendment to exclude people with chronic illness from the amendment of the law. That is a sympathetic proposal at first sight. We also understand that the Labour Party is trying to limit the impact of this bill on people with chronic illness or disability, but GroenLinks also wonders whether it is feasible and what the consequences are for legal certainty. If it is true that the proposal before us represents 60 million in savings, would the Labour Party's proposal result in less cuts? I'd like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this. If I understand the amendment correctly, chronically ill and disabled people must ask the health insurance provider for prior authorisation. There is therefore a risk that health insurers will respond differently to such a request, which will have consequences for legal certainty and the freedom of choice of people. It doesn't make it any clearer anyway. This is one of the few legislative proposals that I have seen come across here in the Chamber, which no one really cares about. GroenLinks is concerned about whether this bill does not achieve exactly the opposite of what the minister wants. I therefore hope that the Minister will provide us with a good basis. In particular, GroenLinks hopes that this bill will be reconsidered and that the visionless austerity, which is not even a cut-off, will simply not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u90	Mr. Chairman. Governing is always a matter of making choices. We now see the priorities of this government. She takes people's world cover from health insurance. That's globalisation in 2016. When I hear spokesmen from the VVD at meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs, or in debates on the economy, we are talking about globalisation. Then we are talking about globalisation. But what do we do now? We are coming up with the abolition of world cover. While millionaires and multinationals have plenty of room to avoid tax and rich expats here in the Netherlands can get a special tax deal, we are talking about abolishing world coverage. These are the principles of the VVD, which is now very busy in a conversation with the CDA about probably the previous coalition agreement. Strict package management was the reason why this proposal was in Rutte I's previous coalition agreement. Multinationals and millionaires are pampering and plaasing. Those are the principles of the VVD, you wonder. For let us be clear: the present bill mainly affects holidaymakers outside the EU and overwinterers. The Netherlands is partly built up by people who have been brought here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u91	Mr Kuzu and I will probably disagree on the content of the proposal before us. I believe that right away, and I can. I hope Mr Kuzu understands that strict package management has nothing to do with pampering multinationals, as he says. Strict package management is precisely a very successful measure, whereby the Healthcare Institute, together with healthcare professionals, patients and insurers, will examine which ways of care should no longer be offered, without undressing the package. So, at hips and knees, not every kind of treatment, but only the most effective. That's strict package management. Surely that has nothing to do with the big words that Mr Kuzu is now using?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u92	It's about the contradiction. On the one hand, nothing is being done about multinationals. We have seen this with tax avoidance. The Panama Papers are still fresh in memory. On the other hand, Mr Rutte must agree with me that these measures in the previous coalition agreement were precisely motivated by the idea that we should begin to reduce the package together. You can reduce the package by taking out certain treatments, but you can also do it by not covering something that used to be in it anymore. That is also part of strict package management. It's not just about taking out treatments, it's also about narrowing the package. That's definitely on the table here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u93	It will be a complicated discussion for the viewers at home, but strict package management is not in principle about reducing the insured package. The whole package remains as comprehensive as it is, but we are trying to remove the waste and non-effective parts of the care. It is true that this legal measure was under the same heading, but in fact it is not strict package management. It concerns the reduction of the territory covered by the coverage. We do not agree on this, but do not include it in the term strict management, because that is a measure that Mr Kuzu, if he looks closely at, is probably very much in favour of, because without cutting back, we can keep the package affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u94	We are talking today about a number of changes, including the abolition of world coverage. That is part of the package, but it is now being taken out with the present bill. With that you are "stringing" it, Mr Rutte, no matter how much you wish it. Whether you like it or not, you may not like it and you may not like it, but that is the reality that is on the table right now. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands was partly built up by people who were brought here in the 1960s, 1970s and 80s. People from Morocco, Turkey, Suriname, Indonesia and the former Netherlands Antilles. Those people are old now and need care. Those people choose to stay abroad for a little longer in the summer or winter. What does the government want to do? The government wants to take care of these people when they go abroad or when they stay abroad, and of family members who visit these people during their longer stay abroad. Instead of rewarding these older people, you're hurting them. It's a stench of gratitude. And then you wonder, why does the government do this? What does she take from whom and why? It's just purely migrant bullying, in this case especially older migrants. Because who makes the most use of the care? These are the elderly in particular, the people who helped to build the country. They get hurt the most. What kind of politics is that? How hard can you be like politics for people? Instead of taking care of our elderly people abroad, it is better to promote trade, to promote exports, and to strengthen cooperation with healthcare organisations in those countries. We would like to propose a trade mission instead of a removal mission. How does the Minister feel about this? The Council of State is critical of the proposal to abolish world coverage. He doubts whether the savings of 60 million will really be realised, but for the umpteenth time this cabinet ignores the Council of State. The Council of State doesn't really know what to do with this cabinet anymore. We have seen it often enough over the last few weeks: in withdrawing Dutch citizenship, in increasing the period from five to seven years, in the temporary measures to combat terrorism. And today we see it again. Week after week, we see that the Council of State's opinions are completely ignored. That smells like arrogance of power. How seriously does the government take the Council of State? We wonder how many Dutch people are affected by the abolition of world coverage. Does the Minister have an estimate of that? Does she have any idea of the top ten of the most popular countries where world coverage will no longer apply? We make a guess: Morocco, Turkey, Suriname, the former Netherlands Antilles and Indonesia. The question is therefore whether we are dealing here with a new pest measure or a plague measure version 2.0. After all, the measure was also included in the previous coalition agreement. It is a bullying measure against Dutch people who want to visit their families abroad. Just for those people, the measure hurts extra. For a Dutch family on holiday to Spain, the measure does not apply. Nothing changes for that family. But for a Dutch family that goes to family in Suriname, Morocco, the former Antilles, Indonesia or Turkey, the measure does hurt. I have some questions about the risks and uncertainties, first of all the possible behavioural effects. If people are not insured abroad, they may make more use of the care in the Netherlands. So they go to the doctor for the holiday. When it comes to planned care, treatments are postponed until after the holiday. That actually increases costs, because care in Morocco and Turkey is much cheaper than care in the Netherlands. In Morocco the care is 80 times as cheap and in Turkey 10 times. Should the government not engage in closer cooperation or urge insurers to cooperate more closely with healthcare institutions abroad in order to save costs? It's a shame to scare people away from that cheaper care. The Council of State also points to this risk of behavioural effects, but the government does not go into that at all in its reply. Will the Minister still be able to respond to it? There is another uncertainty: the bilateral treaties. We read that bilateral treaties need to be adapted before the expected cost savings of 60 million can be achieved. Can the Minister explain again exactly why these treaties should not be amended for one country or another? The documents explicitly mention Morocco and Turkey. If the bilateral agreement with Morocco is not amended, the savings of 60 million will be reduced by 5 million. If the bilateral agreement with Turkey is not amended, the savings of 60 million will be reduced by 10 million. So without the deals with Morocco and Turkey, out of the 60 million, 45 million remain. What is Morocco's 5 million based on? What is this 10 million for Turkey based on? Are these all the care costs people make there? We estimate that this is what's on the low side. What is the Minister's assessment of the negotiations on the bilateral treaties? Is she okay with it? Are we talking to all these countries? Can the Minister give us an update on these negotiations? Negotiation isn't free. If we want to denounce bilateral treaties, then we also have the question of what to turn in. What are we going to turn in to Turkey, Argentina, Australia, Bosnia, Cape Verde, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, Tunisia, Morocco? Moreover, what will it do with the view of the Netherlands that we should knock on all those countries because a diligent party here in the House of Representatives felt it necessary to denounce those bilateral treaties? To bring back several millions, we put the international position of the Netherlands on the line. That's kind of crazy, isn't it? What can be the result of this, we also saw when the Netherlands entered into negotiations with Morocco for the social security agreement. That has been a time-consuming process that does not deserve the beauty prize, and it was diplomatically and economically a disgrace. Morocco also called it an "unfriendly act," which is heavy language in the diplomatic world. In the long term, this can also be broken up by the Netherlands. Are we going to do that later with all the countries I just mentioned? Let me give you an example. Are we going to risk our trade relationship with Turkey of EUR 10 billion for 10 million savings? Has a risk analysis been carried out or are we just taking the chance and seeing what diplomatic and economic damage this causes? Are we putting a lot on the line again for little? I'm rounding up. Is the abolition of world coverage not actually symbolic policy? Are we going through a lot of trouble again for an uncertain saving? It's like you borrowed $10 from someone in Indonesia, and then you're gonna call 40 minutes to get it back. Then the call costs are much higher than the €10 you're calling about. Why don't we focus our efforts on the big money, why not the expat scheme, which costs us 700 million euros a year? Two weeks ago, there was a lot to be done in the debate on responsibility. Rich foreign workers do not have to pay taxes on the first 30% of their income in the Netherlands. Go first to those subsidised millionaires, before you take away the world's cover! But unfortunately, the government refuses to do so. Government is a matter of making choices. We now see again what priorities the VVD and the PvdA have. They take away Dutch people's world coverage from healthcare insurance. That's not neat. Dare to think differently, dare to be righteous!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u95	Thank you very much. Then, as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, we will go to Mrs Bouwmeester. I would also like to announce to the Members of Parliament that I would like to discuss the follow-up to this debate, given the number of questions raised and the number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u96	Mr. Chairman. This bill contains a number of changes in the field of cross-border care. It is proposed that the reimbursement of healthcare costs outside the European Union be carried out through supplementary health insurance or travel insurance, as is already the case in part. For the Labour Party, people dependent on care, such as chronically ill and disabled people, should not face financial obstacles to receiving care, even if they are temporarily abroad. Chronically ill and disabled people should therefore receive fair compensation for the care they need from the basic package, regardless of whether they are staying within or outside Europe. That is why the Labour Party has tabled an amendment which regulates the reimbursement of chronically ill and disabled people who have to receive treatment abroad under existing medical indications, a treatment which they would otherwise have received in the Netherlands. So the world's cover remains for them. We also believe that for people who are in the annoying situation of dying, but who would like to do so outside Europe, for example in their country of origin or in their family outside Europe, palliative terminal care should be possible and should remain in those countries. That is why this amendment also regulates this. We also have a number of questions about the legislative proposal before us. A number of questions have already been asked. I won't repeat it. I do, however, have a number of questions concerning, for example, information on this change. In her replies, the Minister refers to the responsibility of insurers to inform people that in the future care costs for a holiday in Egypt or New York will no longer be reimbursed through basic insurance. What responsibility does the Minister place on himself? How do we ensure that people do not come up unexpectedly at high costs after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u97	I have a question about the explanation of the amendment. Let's take the example of a dialysis patient. A person receiving dialysis in the Netherlands is also receiving dialysis in America on the basis of Mrs Bouwmeester's amendment. It'll be reimbursed. But what if that dialysis patient goes cycling in America, falls and ends up in the emergency room? Does he have to cover these costs separately? After all, they are not part of the chronic care he normally receives; it is an accident. Does he have to take care of that separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u98	The important thing is that you get the medical care you need, especially if there's an emergency. Then there are no horns and bells; then you just need to get the care that is needed. If you are chronically ill or disabled and if you need care abroad in that capacity, you can ask in advance where you should go if it happens there. If it happens on the scene, you just have to go to a hospital there. That will be covered by your supplementary travel insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u99	For the sake of clarity, this means that chronically ill and disabled people are compensated for the care they normally receive, such as dialysis, but that they still have to provide additional care for other forms of care that they may need as a result of an accident. It does not mean that they do not have to take out extra insurance; they still have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u100	According to the PvdA, you just have to approach it in a very practical way. We've made a distinction. For people like me, who could technically go skiing in Colorado, all repatriation costs are covered by supplementary insurance. If I break my leg and have to be set up, it's covered by my travel insurance. I can get all this from the same insurer in one package. If you are chronically ill or disabled and really want to visit your family outside Europe, or go on holiday outside Europe or travel outside Europe for another reason, and you know that you need dialysis or something else, you will be reimbursed through the current regulation of world coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u101	In conclusion, for the sake of clarity, this means that chronically ill and disabled people under this amendment will still have to be guaranteed extra if world coverage is to lapse, because they will not be compensated for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u102	I think you should take a very practical look at it, because a lot of diseases are related; you are not a chronically ill or disabled person today and another patient tomorrow. So I think you should just look at it in a very practical way and make sure that people get the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u103	Mrs Bruins Slot asked a very clear question, but I am completely confused by the answer. If a dialysis patient starts cycling and breaks a leg, will the health care costs associated with breaking that leg be reimbursed under the cover of the world in Mrs Bouwmeester's amendment? Or should those costs be reimbursed by supplementary insurance which this chronically ill person will then have to take out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u104	The world's cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u105	So, through Mrs Bouwmeester's amendment, the kidney dialysis patient is not only insured for his kidney dialysis abroad, but also for an accident or whatever. There is therefore no need to provide additional insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u106	If you're a kidney patient and you're in a terrible bike accident, it's all related to that same body. So I don't think you should look at "this treatment is covered by insurance A, that treatment is covered by insurance B and the next one is not covered by anything," but you have to take a very practical look at what that person needs. You have to help that person. It's one body and everything has a relationship with each other. That is how we see it also for chronically ill and disabled people. But the essence of the proposal, which we have focused on the amendment, is, of course, that we want to prevent people who are chronically ill or disabled and need care from going on holiday outside Europe because they may be uninsurable or because their insurer has no obligation to accept. That's how you make sure these people can just go on vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u107	I think we all understand the core. But my question is about something that is not covered by chronic care. Is this amendment also covered under normal, regular health insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u108	I've said it three times now, but maybe it's not entirely clear. If someone has such a world cover, because they have one body with which anything can happen, it is our proposal to just cover it at once, to have as little fuss as possible. After all, you want to make it as easy as possible for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u109	I think it is very good that the Labour Party is looking for a solution for the chronically ill and disabled. We know that they are the first to be selected for risk. They are too expensive, not insured and do not have a chance to go on holiday. You can only do that if you are very rich, and chronically ill and disabled are not often very rich. However, we do not yet have a clear answer to the next question. Does Mrs Bouwmeester now propose that all health care for all chronically ill and disabled persons be covered abroad? Or are these people only covered by the care costs associated with the chronic illness or disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u110	The short answer is: for everything at once, because people have one body. Thanks for the support of the SP, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u111	Okay, that's clear. With this explanation, therefore, the amendment includes that. We're gonna have to check it out. Mrs Bouwmeester now says that all healthcare costs incurred by chronically ill and disabled people abroad are covered by this amendment. I think that is the most clear explanation possible. In doing so, I can wholeheartedly support this amendment, although I think it would be better to maintain global coverage for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u112	Let us now note that Mrs Bouwmeester is trying to arrange this for chronically ill. So all health care they make abroad is covered by that world coverage. These people therefore do not need to provide additional insurance for other care. If chronically ill should, the big question is whether they would be accepted for such supplementary health insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u113	I would also like to thank Mrs Dijkstra for her support. We agree with each other and it is always good to be able to see that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u114	Well, my concern is, then, whether this is everything and whether it is feasible. I think it is very important that chronically ill people can travel outside Europe. However, if you arrange for them to be reimbursed for all health care, including the costs not related to their chronic illness, then that would lead to very unequal treatment. People who are not chronically ill must be assured of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u115	That is a very fair question, because we need to treat people equally. But you only have one body. The more complicated the disease, the more everything is related to each other. That is why we call for a very practical approach. I'm going to continue with the example of the kidney dialysis patient. That is what I was talking about with Mrs Bruis Slot and it is also used in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. If a kidney dialysis patient goes through an accident abroad and everything happens to him, it's related to that one body. Everything has to do with each other. It would be very complicated to say: the cost for the kidneys will be reimbursed, but the cost for the leg we do in another code and the bill we send to another insurer. That's getting a little complicated. Precisely because this is always about one body, it is quite logical to approach it practically and do it in the proposed way. Moreover, I do not think that this will put people who are not chronically ill or disabled at a disadvantage. I think you're particularly rich when you're very healthy and you don't have to live with a chronic illness or disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u116	I believe that this amendment is important for the Labour Party. That's why we need to think about it. I would have interpreted the literal text of the amendment in a different way. I came to the next explanation. Let's say you're chronically ill and you're under permanent treatment for that. If you go abroad, such treatment continues; that is logical and predictable. There is then some sort of replacement of costs. That's what we're trying to do here. A chronically ill person, if he goes abroad, can go to his insurance first. He can say, "Oh, I have to go abroad, I need dialysis there, so can this dialysis treatment go on abroad?" The insurer should then be able to say: dialysis care is well arranged in that country, so I agree. That is how I interpreted the text of the amendment, which I read in the text. This concerns the necessary care in the context of this chronic disease. But a dialysis patient can also go surfing and have an accident. That can happen, of course, because dialysis patients go on vacation and then do things. A patient like that, if he gets into that accident, it's just bad luck. But that happens, and then he needs care. I mean, for that, I mean, a patient like that can just have additional insurance, just like anyone else, right? Shouldn't it stay that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u117	I understand the distinction that Mr Rutte wants to make. Mrs Dijkstra asked the same question. The tricky thing is that it often has an impact on your entire body if anything happens to you. If you say "for the part that is covered by your chronic illness, you have world coverage and for the rest you have a different coverage," that means that we're going to ask hospitals to make several receipts: a receipt "world coverage" and a receipt "other insurance." That is practically not feasible, so I understand that you can think: is that completely fair, because I can get that surfing luck and I have to pay for it myself. You can also say: I have the wealth that I don't have chronic illness or disability, so I don't have all that expense, cost and hassle at all, and I can pay for it myself. So it's mostly very practical. That's why I use the word "practically" very often. If Mr Rutte has a better wording for the explanatory statement, I am, of course, open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u118	It extends a little beyond the explanatory statement. I understand that you want to regulate per amendment that a chronically ill person who has to continue a certain treatment abroad does not meet acceptance thresholds. Moreover, there is no saving there, and such treatment must therefore go through. For the rest, this chronically ill person is an ordinary human being of flesh and blood like everyone else and should be able to insure himself. In fact, I'd like to work for that, too. I do not quite understand why we should make a distinction. I think that is important in order to be able to support the amendment in the end, because it affects the essence of the law. It's not like a chronically ill person has to make a call in the sense of: hello, I'm chronically ill, so I'm covered? He will have to make a call to ask: can I continue this treatment abroad? Let me get this straight. Is it a phone call in the sense of: may I continue this treatment? Or doesn't the call go beyond the announcement: I'm chronically ill, I'm going on holiday; do I have cover and do I have no additional insurance? That clarity also needs the chronically ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u119	The goal is that you can continue the treatment you have here. It's just paid for you because otherwise it's priceless for some people. Then you also have the situation that you are not being treated permanently but that things are happening there. Then you also call to ask: what is the good care? That's taken care of, too. Then there's the situation where something happens to you. I'm gonna make it a little harder. Then you have two situations. You get something on your arm that has nothing to do with your disability. Then you could say: for that part you need additional insurance. But you can also get something that has a connection to your limitation. Then you have to ask the hospital in that country: make several receipts for what has to do with this and that part of my body, so I know which receipt should go to which insurer. That takes so much time, money and energy that it is more practical to say: just make it happen at once. That's our intention: no trouble. I can see why that question is being asked. I get it from the VVD. I get it from D66, but in the context of the practical feasibility and vulnerability that people with chronic illness or disability already have, I would say: help these people live this little bit of life during that little bit of holiday or that short trip abroad. That's our intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u120	You may ask a very brief concluding question, Mr Rutte. We're cool tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u121	I don't need any more interruptions, but this is listening very closely. I can imagine the Minister having an execution test done to know what this means in practice. That is how we know exactly what we are going to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u122	I think that's a really good idea, because we don't want a whole lot of stuff around here. We want to prevent these people from getting hurt. That sounds like a good suggestion to me. I'll pass it on to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u123	It's already arrived there, that's my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u124	It is difficult for me to understand why the PvdA supports this change of law, while submitting this amendment. The VVD says: you must show solidarity; if Jan gets a surfing happiness outside Europe, it is not fair that this is paid for by Mien at the campsite in Hattem. But is it fair that Mien has to pay at the campsite for someone with a chronic disability who breaks a leg abroad? Is that even solidarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u125	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u126	Could Mrs. Bouwmeester explain that? Because apparently we're talking about someone with a disability who can afford that holiday. In the reasoning that the Labour Party finds this bill very supportive, it is very strange to say that Mien has to pay at the campsite for someone who may have a restriction but who can pay for a holiday in a faraway country? What is there to show solidarity about, to go along with the reasoning of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u127	It is remarkable that the right-wing parties are quite positive about this amendment, but that GroenLinks is very critical about helping chronically ill and disabled people. But maybe I misunderstood that. The intention is to continue the treatment abroad. It doesn't have to be that they go straight to a very expensive and luxurious resort in Verweggistan. It may also be that they are just crossing the border of Europe. Holidays aren't that expensive these days. Or they could be taken by a family member. But that family member cannot pay for dialysis in faraway countries; so it is not always the case that you pay for it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u128	I've got to get something straight. Contrary to what Mrs Bouwmeester suggests, we are very concerned about people with disabilities, but we are also defending the interests of people with low incomes. Apparently, Mrs Bouwmeester now says that people with chronic disabilities, who can afford a holiday abroad, should still receive more compensation than people who cannot afford that holiday abroad. That's all I care about. I'm very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u129	You've made it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u130	It is mainly a question of the practical feasibility of this proposal. I have just shared this with Mrs Dijkstra and Mr Rutte. Of course you can say: someone gets into an accident and then we split that body into five parts, then there are seven bills going to go to twenty addresses. That is possible, but we do not think that this is right towards chronically ill and disabled people, because that will make their lives even more complicated than it often is. They need exceptions, regulations, compensations and compensations for applications everywhere, and sometimes they do not enter buildings. Let's make this little bit practical for them. That is why we have chosen this option, although I fully understand the other side that Mrs Voortman describes. In this case, we choose the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u131	Mrs Bouwmeester has just placed me among the spokesmen who support this amendment. I am not at all sure yet, because I find it extremely unclear. I propose that Mrs Bouwmeester should explain much better in the explanatory statement what this is about. After that, we can only make a judgment about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u132	Excuse me. I just meant to say that D66 was positive about protecting chronically ill and disabled people. That is different from supporting my amendment. I didn't mean to be unclear about that at all. We want to prevent people from going to a faraway destination on vacation. We want to find a practical solution for this. If there are any uncertainties in the explanatory statement or otherwise fellow Members of the Chamber have made a suggestion for improvement, then additions are very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u133	I welcome the fact that Mrs Bouwmeester is seeking a solution for chronically ill people who want to go on holiday. But I googled for a while and the Netherlands counts about 5 million chronically ill. According to RIVM, this will be 7 million in 2030. That is a third of the population and there will soon be many more. Isn't it much smarter to vote against this change of law? If we make an amendment that applies to a third of the population, what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u134	No, because not everyone goes on vacation outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u135	That's a very short answer. Mrs Bouwmeester presents herself here as the keeper of the chronically ill. That is, of course, very sympathetic, but in the future so many people will be covered by Mrs Bouwmeester's amendment, perhaps half of the Dutch population, which I do not understand is that the Labour Party supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u136	Thanks again for the support, including for chronically ill and disabled people. It is not true that now 5 million and later 7 million people are going on holiday outside Europe. I haven't been out of Europe for quite a while myself. For example, there are more people who will be very happy within Europe. A smaller part goes on holiday outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u137	You don't have to submit this bill if there are so few people outside Europe on holiday. That is the consequence of your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u138	What we don't want is for only one person to fall between shore and ship. So even if you make this proposal for one person, it makes sense. In practice, of course, there are more, but there are now no 5 million and in the future 7 million. But if that is the case, our starting point is that we do not want people receiving dialysis to be able to go on holiday outside Europe because of our legislation. We do not want to impose that barrier. I heard Mrs Klever say positive things about that, and I am pleased to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u139	Thank you for allowing me to interrupt, Mr. President. We have just been told that Mrs Bouwmeester says that for chronically ill and disabled people not only the treatment of their chronic illness abroad must be compensated, but also the treatment when they are in an accident. So the world's cover will stand for them. In the explanatory statement to the amendment, Mrs Bouwmeester says that it is cost-neutral, because the treatment abroad would also be reimbursed in the Netherlands and that there will only be reimbursement abroad up to the maximum of what is reimbursed in the Netherlands. But then that doesn't apply to an accident or a disease that occurs abroad. Now that Mrs Bouwmeester has said that this group simply maintains world coverage, I would like to know whether we can see exactly how much this costs. If there is no insight into this, can this be included in the execution test?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u140	It seems to me to be a good thing to include this in the execution test, because we obviously do not know in advance how many chronically ill or disabled people have an accident that is completely separate from their chronic illness or disability. It's getting a little complicated. It's a fair question. If Mrs Leijten will allow me, I will pass on this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u141	I am left with the question of what Mrs Bouwmeester is actually trying to do with this amendment. If somewhere there is the point that everyone has the same right to care, it is in the basic package in the Health Insurance Act. With this amendment, therefore, we are actually creating an exception. If you don't belong to the group of chronically ill and disabled, you're actually another exception. So we make it incredibly complicated, while we could keep it very simple, simply by not abolishing world coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u143	What is the reason why the PvdA, which tabled another motion in 2010 to prevent world coverage from being abolished, now says: let's do it anyway, and we make it very complex. An execution test is requested. I am not at all prepared to do so, but I can almost predict what the outcome will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u144	That almost asks for a counter-question from Mrs Dijkstra, but I will not do so. We do not want chronically ill and disabled people to suffer. That is why we are tabling this amendment. We really think it is very important that there is equal access to care, including for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u145	I would just like to say one last time: if chronically ill and disabled people are not to suffer, then we simply must not abolish world coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u146	You can think different about that. We are now making an exception for them, and I hope that D66 will support that, so that these people do not fall apart. That's our goal. That's what we stand for. That is what the amendment is for. I've heard a lot of positive noises about it. I therefore sincerely hope that the proposal will be widely supported, and perhaps improved with the help of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u147	The CDA welcomes the amendment and welcomes the fact that the feasibility and possible loss of savings will now be examined closely. My question is another one. The chronically ill or disabled person who goes on holiday is right, as Mrs Klever says: there are already 5 million and in the future 7 million must ask the health insurance provider for permission. These are chronically ill people who go on internships, holidays but sometimes also have to go abroad unexpectedly for work and the like. How long can it take a health care provider to make that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u148	Briefly, that decision must be made as soon as possible. In case of emergency, of course, you just need to get the help you need right away. Now it is also the case that if something happens to you abroad and you get your care, you should contact your health insurance provider. One of my questions I can ask right now was about the national contact point that is to come. My question to the Minister is whether people can go there with complaints, comments and suggestions. If things go wrong, if you're abroad and what you need and if your health care provider is acting weird, so you don't get the care, is that the point of contact where you get help right away when you need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u149	But now I'm confused, because Mrs Bouwmeester's amendment says that you have to ask your health insurance provider for permission in advance. Now Mrs Bouwmeester talks about something happening abroad, asking your health insurance provider if it will be reimbursed and something weird happens. Do you have to ask permission during your trip or in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u150	There are two situations. The first situation is: you're already getting dialysis here and you want to take the equipment somewhere and continue dialysis there. The second situation is that you get some kind of care throughout the year, but not at the time of departure and when you are there again. Then you're gonna ask during that stay. So it's just when the situation is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u151	So you may know in advance that your dialysis will be reimbursed, but if you break your leg while surfing, which Mr Rutte mentioned, you must ask permission during the trip. And then it might be very good that you did get permission for dialysis, but you don't get permission for compensation for your broken leg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u152	No, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u153	I conclude from this that there is an uncertainty for chronically ill and disabled people and that they should be guaranteed additional insurance. Otherwise, they will have to find out whether or not they are insured for a particular part of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u154	No, because if you say they're fully insured, they're completely insured. It is important that these people do not fall between shore and ship and that they have the maximum certainty in advance that no crazy things can happen. So everything that is in the basic package and you get reimbursed in the Netherlands, you will be reimbursed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u155	We have now discussed a number of questions on this amendment. Mrs Bouwmeester continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u156	I have already mentioned some of my points in the answer, for example the contact point. The bill has been in consultation. It does say who contributed, but not what that input was. In the context of an initiative paper from the Labour Party, Lobby in daylight, I would have found it interesting if that had been added to the bill. Anyway, that's a suggestion for the next time there's a bill before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u157	We have come to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. The House has discussed the amendments in detail. An execution test has also been requested. A large number of questions have also been asked. The Minister has therefore asked for some delay for the reply by the cabinet. Given the fundamental questions raised and the need for an implementation test on the amendments, that seems to me to be a reasonable request. I'm asking the spokesmen to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u158	The CDA attaches care and can support postponement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u159	D66, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u160	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u161	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u162	Support for postponement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u163	Absolute support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u164	We want to give the minister all the time she needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u165	This is my first debate after my maternity leave. I note that the members of the VWS committee are extremely nice to each other and to the Minister. I support the proposal, as do my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u166	We are pleased that your first debate does not last until the middle of the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u167	The continuation of this debate, the answer given by the Minister, will be scheduled at a later date.
