ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Members of Parliament and the people in the gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	On Monday, the Prime Minister held consultations with opposition parties on the outcome of the Ukraine referendum. I have heard from colleagues and from the media that this consultation has not been successful. The Prime Minister had not invited the SP to this consultation, and I would like to thank him very much for that. It shows that my party has been absolutely clear in its response to the outcome of the referendum. No is no and the Netherlands should not ratify the association agreement with Ukraine. I'll call on the Prime Minister to speed things up. Are we gonna hear from him before November 1st? Membership of the European Union is not without obligation. The rule of law, human rights and freedom of the press are the heart of the European Union. That is why we are strict with the accession of new Member States. However, we must not turn a blind eye to the decline in this area within the European Union itself. The SP therefore wishes to draw attention to the situation in Hungary and Poland. The EU cannot continue to watch these Member States systematically undermine the rule of law and human rights. In Poland, an attempt has been made to ban abortion by law, following previous violations of the Constitutional Court and freedom of the press. It is an important democratic victory that has been voted against by the protests of tens of thousands of angry Polish women. In Hungary this weekend, the publication of the largest left-wing newspaper in the country was shut down. Journalists speak of a coup, because this decision was taken after a series of articles on corruption scandals. The referendum on the refugee quota, which fortunately failed to reach the entry threshold, was also a clear attempt by the Hungarian Government to stir up xenophobia in its own country. What does the Prime Minister think of these developments in Hungary and Poland? Does he share the view of the SP that there is a decline in the fundamental values that unite us? The SP calls for a periodic review of the quality of the rule of law in Member States and a strengthening of the conditions attached to receiving European funds. I'd like a response. From east to west, or to the United Kingdom. It seems like Prime Minister May is serious now that she's bet on a hard Brexit. In the light of this announcement, the British pound is making a staggering fall. The question is of course whether the soup is eaten as hot as it is served. If the Article 50 procedure is put into effect by March at the latest, it will have major consequences, not only for the United Kingdom, but also for the European Union and the Netherlands. After Germany, we are the most important trading partner. Our country is strongly linked to the British economy, and how are we preparing for a Brexit as it approaches with raging strides? So far, I have not seen any concrete scenarios or investigations carried out on behalf of the government. Isn't it time to start that process? Then about the Turkey deal. As is well known, the inventor of the Turkey deal, Gerald Knaus, calls the elaboration of the agreement a disgrace. We also know that our government would rather believe President Erdogan than various human rights organisations when it comes to human rights violations in Turkey itself. I wonder whether the Prime Minister is concerned by Mr Knaus' criticism. The question now is whether Turkey will soon be rewarded with visa liberalisation or not. According to the Turkish ambassador in Brussels, Turkey meets 71 of the 72 visa-free travel criteria. According to the Cabinet, seven criteria still have to be met. Adaptation of the anti-terror law, which is now being used for political prisoners, is the hottest issue. Will the Prime Minister stand firm if all the criteria are not fully met? The next progress report is due in December. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that there will be no visa liberalisation before then? The humanitarian situation among refugees in Greece is now very worrying and resettlement is taking place very slowly. A majority of Member States do not yet participate in resettlement policies and support for Greece is seriously inadequate, especially in winter. What is the Netherlands doing to speed up resettlement and improve humane care? Let me now turn briefly to the situation in Ukraine itself. In the meantime, it is becoming increasingly clear that Kiev also does not comply with the agreement concluded in Minsk, while the country receives billions of support from the West, including from the European Union and the IMF. In this context, several European countries are calling for sanctions against Russia to be lifted. However, the Netherlands sees no reason to weaken sanctions. How does the government urge Kiev to comply with the Minsk agreements? We cannot have double standards here. That undermines the peace process. Finally, a word about CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement), the Trade Agreement with Canada. CETA in practice means TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership) through the back door. My group opposes the treaty because it gives greater power to large companies, including through the arbitration mechanism, puts pressure on our standards and does not guarantee the precautionary principle enough. The legal statement by which we try to appease the moods is butter soft and does not change our fundamental objections to CETA. Does the Prime Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	I have a brief question for Mr Van Bommel. He made a few comments about Ukraine and said that some countries advocate weakening sanctions against Russia. Is that also the opinion of the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	No, I would have told you if I didn't. We are not in favour of weakening sanctions at the moment. In the future, this could be justified, for example if progress is made on the Minsk agreements. At the same time, we are not in favour of further stepping up sanctions, because that would put further pressure on the matter and we do not need increasing tension and further escalation in this region, which we consider to be dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think it's good to be clear about this. Implicitly I started to ring a bell and I wondered if the SP is now on that path, but that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm glad this has been cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Turkey deal. Last summer I was in Turkey, with our associate Shamir Ceuleers. We spoke there with refugees, UNHCR, EU delegation, UNICEF and various NGOs. We have produced a travel report containing our findings and a number of recommendations. I will pass that report around and also give a copy to the Prime Minister and his colleagues. I would like to receive a response to some of these recommendations from the Prime Minister. Hopefully he will be able to include this in his reply and otherwise I will be happy to receive his reply in writing. One of the conclusions we have drawn is that Turkey is still not a safe third country. We have heard this from various organisations. The right of asylum is discriminatory in nature. The UN Refugee Convention is not yet fully implemented. A difference is made between the legal status of Syrian and non-Syrian refugees. Turkey is strongly meddling in the use of European funds by demanding that Turkey decide which NGOs should: Turkey's NGOs should implement the Turkey deal. I remember the Prime Minister here specifically saying there wouldn't be a penny going to Erdogan. However, the EU delegation with which we spoke told us that the pressure on the EU delegation increased enormously as far as the use of funds was concerned. The Turkish NGOs should be called in for registration, among other things, something the UHNCR normally does. Furthermore, Turkey is strongly meddling in the selection of refugees. Higher-educated people are selected from them and lower-educated people are made available to Europe. That too goes against the Refugee Convention. Work permits for refugees are getting loose. There is a very large bureaucracy attached to that. Refugees in Turkey can hardly count on guidance from the government. They are registered, but then they have to find their own place of residence and if they live too far from the schools, their children cannot go to school because they do not receive travel expenses from anyone. In short, there is a great deal of concern about the position of the refugees, which it was primarily about. Then the link to visa-free travel. Mr Van Bommel has already asked about this. I understand that there will be a progress report in December. Can the Prime Minister say once again that even if Turkey does not meet only one of the 72 conditions, there will be no visa-free travel? I'd like his response to this point. I'm here to talk about Russia. There's going to be a debate on MH17. I will not talk about this now, but the role of Russia is very worrying. The cabinet rightly summoned the ambassador to clarify the criticisms of the report that came out last week. In addition, the tension has continued. Russia has said that it regards the United States formally as a threat to national security. What will be the government's commitment to the European Council? Although the Middle East peace process is not on the agenda, England has said it indirectly on the agenda. England has said that payments to the Palestinian Authority should be stopped because a terrorist responsible for the murder of a British national, a British girl, is now getting some £9,000 a year as a bonus for that murder. We have the same kind of situation. In 2001, a Dutch family with three children died. The two perpetrators have now received around $100,000 as a premium. Is the Prime Minister going to raise this? Will he see how, hopefully with other partners in Europe, we can follow the British example? There has been a motion on this from my side earlier. This is the perverse incentive we really need to get out. I come to the Ukraine Treaty. I understand that the Prime Minister is looking for a narrow goat path to find a solution to the no vote at the Ukraine referendum. I know the word "mouse hole," but I hadn't heard of "goat path" before. What exactly is the opening that the Prime Minister is looking for to do justice to the outcome of the referendum? What solutions does the Prime Minister propose? What's acceptable to him? Finally, I come to the CETA Convention. An additional statement on the sustainability and protection of workers has just been received. As far as we are concerned about the impact of the Treaty on agriculture, food, the labour market and the environment, this additional paragraph has not yet been removed. What is the legal power of the supplementary statements on sustainability and the other matters I have just mentioned? Why does the Cabinet agree to a provisional entry into force well before Member States have been able to ratify the Convention? At TTIP, the cabinet wants to build a break in the negotiations. At the same time, the CETA Convention is already in a final stage. Part of this is the investment arbitrage. Why does CETA need to be chased through it so quickly? Why is there no pause, as was agreed with TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	The SP and PVV were not invited to the Torentjes consultation, but the ChristianUnion was invited. I am surprised that Mr Voordewind still has all kinds of questions about the interpretation of the 'no' vote. He knows what's going on now, doesn't he? The group chairman of the Christian Union was present at the meeting at the Tower. When he came out, he made a very wonderful statement for the camera. The question was, no is no, isn't it? He replied, "Well, well, that's way out of line. How are we supposed to interpret that statement? Mr Voordewind has undoubtedly spoken to him about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	I didn't. The group chairman of our party said he was going to listen to the Prime Minister. As usual, we do not have consultations, discussions and negotiations in back rooms. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to give a public insight into the possible solutions to get out of the impasse. Today, I would like to talk to the Prime Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	I understand that, but have you also spoken to your own group chairman about the interpretation of his statement? That statement was really amazing. It was said, no is no. Then he said, "No, I'm way out of line." Would you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	We would like to hear from the Prime Minister what his possible solutions are. It may mean that we are not ratifying the Convention or that we are ratifying it, but I would like to hear the Prime Minister's proposal in public first. Then we will respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. The failed coup in Turkey was months ago. Erdogan announced a state of emergency in which over 30,000 people were arrested and more than 100,000 civil servants lost their jobs. Last week he announced that he would extend the emergency situation in Turkey by three months, probably up to a whole year. I'm holding my heart for what happens next. It is clear that Turkey is not moving in the right direction and certainly not in the direction of the European Union. This certainly applies to the visa liberalisation process. My two colleagues were also talking about it. My group has been calling on it many times. The entire House of Representatives has also consistently stressed that Turkey must meet all the conditions before visa-free travel becomes possible, with or without EU-Turkey deal, where this process is strangely mixed with. According to the VVD, this was the cheapest deal ever. As far as D66 is concerned, it is a very dangerous deal, because the European Commission has simply established 72 criteria that Turkey must meet. What is striking is the speed with which criteria have suddenly been ticked off in recent months after the EU-Turkey deal has been concluded. In October 2014, twelve criteria had been checked. A year and a half later, in March 2016, nineteen were ticked off. That is a very slow progress of seven criteria in one and a half years. After closing the deal in May 2016, however, 65 criteria were checked out. So that happened within two months. The research team of D66 has once again dived in there and came to the conclusion that some conditions are very easily ticked off, sometimes prematurely and sometimes simply wrongly. Take, for example, condition 29, the better analysis and registration of migratory flows by the Turkish IND, so that security services can carry out a risk analysis. That's crucial in times of terror. The Commission states that this risk analysis is a skill that still needs to be developed. Despite that, it is ticked off. Under other conditions, the Commission is very premature. Condition 5 includes, for example, the adjustment of Turkish ID cards, which are still very easy to fake. The process of improvement will not start until the end of this year. It is not expected to be completed until 2018. However, the Commission said in May: ticked off. Some criteria simply look away, for example in the case of criterion 24. This means that refugee reception must be in order and asylum seekers must not be returned to the country of origin. Despite many reports from human rights organisations about the shooting of refugees and the sending of refugees back to Syria, the Commission refuses to investigate this and simply says: tick off. I can go on like this for a while. D66 has found no less than nineteen criteria which, according to the Commission, could be ticked off, but which, in our view, have been assessed at least too prematurely or too mildly. In order to ensure that this dossier, which has been dragging on for months now, finally comes to the head of the Prime Minister's mind very clearly, we have put it together for him. We've made a list of all the criteria. I have it here, and I'd like to offer it to the Prime Minister. We have placed the Commission's opinion alongside the D66 judgment. It turns out that a lot of criteria have just been mischecked. I would like to present the underlying investigation to the Prime Minister. It is, of course, also available to colleagues. The question is, of course, why the European Commission is ticking off criteria that have not yet been actually dealt with? The fact is, of course, that the Member States attach great importance to the deal with Erdogan. It has to go on at all costs, so we have to turn a blind eye. Of course you can't. The European Commission should be able to do its job and test all 72 criteria independently and properly. D66 therefore wants a re-evaluation of the 19 criteria which we believe have been mischecked. We therefore call on the Prime Minister to ensure that the European Council allows the Commission to do its work, without putting undue pressure on the Turkish deal and without negotiating with the criteria in force. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	It is good that the D66 Group does its homework, but something fundamental is happening here. The European Commission monitors compliance with conventions and is an arbitrator. If you're criticizing the referee, you're going to undermine that referee's authority. Is that bad? Yes, because we also need the European Commission to be authoritative in the subjects mentioned by Mr Van Bommel, such as Poland and Hungary. If these countries are going to say that the Commission can say a lot, but that it is not right, then they are going to take the Commission down. So is it wise what D66 is doing here? I read an article by Mr Pechtold this summer. He wasn't talking about negotiating with the criteria. He simply said that D66 does not want to do business with Mr Erdogan and is therefore not in favour of visa liberalisation. My request to Mr Verhoeven is that these matters should not be mixed up and that the referee should not be called into question. Just be honest about the D66 position. D66 does not want visa liberalisation, because D66 does not want to do business with Mr Erdogan. Then just say that. D66 is also willing to take in additional refugees. Then say that, because that's the honest story. Don't try to play it through the referee's band.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think the only one mixing things up is Mr Mulder himself. I would like to say two things about this. My point is that the Commission is the independent referee. The Commission is the organisation that has drawn up these 72 criteria. The Commission is the organisation that reviews these criteria. What did you see? For the Turkey deal, closed under great pressure and in response to the great wishes of the Member States, the criteria were looked very critically at. Then came the Turkey deal and the EU Council with the Member States put pressure on the Commission, i.e. on the independent referee, which suddenly starts ticking the referee. We shouldn't have that. If we want a strong independent referee, as I agree with Mr Mulder, then we need to give them room. The Member States claim that they have concluded a Turkey deal, a very improper mix of visa liberalisation with the reception and withdrawal of refugees, so they are going to pressure the visa liberalisation process to water down a little. Mr Mulder is therefore in complete agreement with the inadmissibility which I am actually exposing here. Let the Commission be the independent referee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Verhoeven continues. He says that the European Commission has been put under pressure. You have to prove that, because if you do not, you are suggesting everything about the Commission and undermining the authority of that Commission. Where has the Commission been put under pressure? The debate on visa liberalisation has been going on for a long time. It has already started for the so-called Turkey deal. So who's mixing what?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	In any case, I note that we are making a great deal of profit today, because I finally hear Mr Mulder say that the Commission must at least have the room to do its job properly. I think that, in some cases, the VVD has considered this quite differently. So let us welcome the fact that the VVD also believes that the Commission is leading the way. I totally agree with him. I have just indicated that, before the Turkey deal was concluded, the Commission was doing its job very critically and very meticulously as a fair and good referee in this visa liberalisation process. Following the conclusion of the Turkey deal, under pressure from all these Heads of Government, they were happy, because they could tell their constituents that the refugee problem had been resolved suddenly an acceleration took place. At first 19 criteria were ticked off, but suddenly there were 65, in a year and a half. I think that's an acceleration that indicates something that's not quite right. That is why we have gone into it in terms of content. We have shown that 19 criteria have been mischecked. We always talk about national parliaments, in the sense that national parliaments must be able to do their work and that they must be strong. I am a member of a national parliament. I am investigating what the Commission is doing. I think it is very logical that I should say that the research has shown that things are not going well for the Netherlands at a very sensitive and important point, namely visa liberalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	There's two things sticking out for me. First of all, I'm concerned with the suggestion of pressure. Mr Verhoeven cannot do that. He's just suggesting that. He thinks it happened because there's pressure. He suggests that and he repeats that several times. If you repeat a suggestion very often, it seems to become reality, but I find that uncomfortable. But the second point is that D66 is of course of the European democratic structure. I believe that we should monitor and send this government here and you have representatives, including in the European Parliament, who control the Commission. I have not yet heard you say that; I find that remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	What Mrs Maij is saying is wrong. In fact, the European Commission has always said very critically to the European Commission recently that the democratically elected European Parliament has been a very good safety valve in this case. That has always said that it is only going to judge visa liberalisation if something is on the table that is serious. It has certainly made it critically impossible to take a number of steps in recent times. So thank you to the European Parliament. But we should not now pretend that the national parliaments do not have their own responsibility. The appeal I can make to my head of government is to stop putting undue pressure on that Commission. Stop constantly mixing visa liberalisation with the Turkey deal and ensure that the Commission can do its job in the area of visa liberalisation. So I am the one who says: don't go through with the improper mixing of these two things, with the result that all kinds of criteria are checked out very easily. It seems to me, in itself, right to do so from the point of view of my national parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	It happens again: two to three times in this answer the suggestion is raised that undue pressure is being placed. You can't make that hard. Again, I find that uncomfortable. I do not see what the sources are and who has done so, which I always find difficult when it comes to an investigation which has taken a number of steps more quickly. I suppose if you start running, you'd better run at the end. For a test you have to practice for a long time and at the end you get it. This is of course how it works with the negotiations on visa liberalisation and the processes Turkey must go through. But if a number of things should be improved, then I think so... I say again that I do not think you are right to say that the D66 Group, your delegation in the European Parliament, has called for attention to be paid to this. The European Parliament has said exactly what we are saying here, namely that all the criteria must be met before it is discussed. So I think your suggestion that it is so is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	I don't think that's too bad. You have two levels, including the level of the European Commission. The Commission shall be audited by the European Parliament. The European Parliament has played this role in recent years. As a result, in the area of visa liberalisation, it has been said at least twice that it will only go further if there is a document of a serious nature. The second level is the national parliaments. I am speaking on behalf of the national parliament and I have the opportunity to send a message to the government leader of this cabinet before he goes to a summit. I do that on the basis of research. You're asking who did that investigation. You will receive the report in a moment and you will see that we have seen the texts and the progress reports of the European Commission. We say to the head of government: make sure that the Commission can do its job. Then you say that I cannot make it clear that there is pressure on the Commission from the Member States. Those are naive who, in today's Europe, in the current situation, with current relations, while respecting the way in which 27 Member States and the European Council behave, pretend that there is no pressure from the Member States on the Commission. Whoever it is is extremely naive. In this sense, I believe that there is absolutely constant pressure, in all kinds of cases. I believe that this is also part of the current situation in Europe. This has certainly been done in the case of the refugee deal, which many Heads of Government attach great importance to and for which they like to negotiate a little bit. This is also apparent from the 19 criteria which have been wrongly checked out. It's just a well-founded investigation, and on that basis, I'm drawing a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	The interruptions must be short and the answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	I'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	What binds us in Parliament is that although we disagree, we agree on the facts. Mr Verhoeven cannot live up to that pressure. He can't do that. He's suggesting that by saying it's just the way it is. It's just not hard. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Show it! Show it! Show it! Show it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	D66 has looked objectively at 72 hard criteria, Mr Mulder. We just read it. We have just measured it, and we have asked ourselves what the European Commission has said about it. If you then read what the European Commission says and then check everything out as well, the House of Representatives goes on quietly, everyone is satisfied and has the idea that it is going to be okay, I think it is quite right that we have gone into it in substance and that on that basis we say that at least there is something going on that the Commission has not done the referee's job properly. For those who think logically and analyse the past few months, since the refugee deal, it is not a very strange observation that there is a lot of pressure from the Member States to make that refugee deal work at the expense of the cost. That's the suggestion I'm making, and it's been substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	That is a lot of words, suggestions and papers, but it is all camouflage for the lack of proof that this European Commission has been put under pressure. That is a pity, and that also undermines this debate, because we need to agree on the facts. Mr Verhoeven cannot deliver it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	The fact is, there are 72 criteria. The fact is that since the Turkey deal, which has been under great pressure from the Member States, there has been an enormous acceleration in relation to these criteria. Those who look at this more closely are aware of what we have done in a number of areas in a very premature, unjustified and very mild way. So you get a list of ticked-off criteria that haven't been checked out at all. I find that worrying and I hope that the Prime Minister will at least respond to it. I understand that, in addition to the deal between the EU and Turkey, whether the statement or the press statement or whatever it means, this is not exactly a matter of making deals with other countries at EU level. Will they then be press statements without any legal basis, so that the European Parliament is completely out of play? Can the Prime Minister guarantee that if such deals are concluded, it will go through the regular democratic process? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then we'll deal with Russia. The situation in Aleppo is very poignant, civilians are being bombed and hospitals are being bombed, as are schools and auxiliary convoys. It's all of unprecedented cruelty. These bombings are carried out by Assad, but also by Russia. Furthermore, Russia in the UN is opposed to any solution to the disaster in Syria. Putin's cynical foreign policy has no boundaries. This is also seen in another dossier, and that concerns the resolution of the MH17 disaster. Russia is making every effort to prevent thorough investigation and the trial of perpetrators. The Russians give disinformation and false statements, pull up smokescreens and express unfounded criticism. Russia must stop this nonsense, the Prime Minister said. I very much agree with him. But now, as far as D66 is concerned, it is time for an extra step. Has the Prime Minister personally called Putin to remind him of UN Resolution 2166? Is the Prime Minister prepared to commit himself to additional sanctions against Russia in the European Union? Is the Prime Minister prepared to use the Dutch seat in the UN Security Council to call Russia to order? I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister. Finally, an almost traditional round along the referenda that took place in Europe. How does the Prime Minister Mr Orbán talk about this at the summit with his colleague Mr Orbán? Does he have any idea if Orbán is going to put proposals on the table in response to the Hungarian referendum? I'd like a response. I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister what he discussed with Prime Minister May last Monday. What was her commitment and what is the commitment of our own Prime Minister? I would like to repeat what I said last week. The cabinet has always said: we are not about it, we cannot look too far ahead, we cannot expose our strategy. But every time it appeared that the cabinet sometimes lets itself be surprised by referenda and so on by the Brexit. That is why I would like the Prime Minister to give a clearer answer to the question of what he thinks should be done. Finally, the Ukraine referendum. I read in the annotated agenda that the Prime Minister intends to implement the Pechtold and Others motion at this summit. I can't wait to see what he's coming up with. I am still confident that we will hear that before 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte said last week that he has a plan with the Netherlands, an ambition even. Never before were words so empty and meaningless. Because more than 180 days after the Ukraine referendum, he still doesn't know what to do with the no vote. In Brussels it wasn't given a second, and now this desperate Prime Minister even wants the opposition parties to help him with secret conversations in backrooms. It's all an absurd display! The Prime Minister has for months ignored the democratic voice of his own people of millions of Dutch people. He'll do anything to please Brussels. His actions are totally unworthy of the office. Today we call on him once again to clarify matters. What commitment does he intend to make to the European summit? What did he discuss with the opposition parties on Monday? Is he going to ratify the treaty if a piece of paper is enjoyed with the Dutch objections? It would be shameful, undemocratic and totally unacceptable to us. We say once and for all that the Netherlands cannot ratify the treaty, never. No is no. The powerless performance of Prime Minister Rutte is also shown at the MH17. Now that Russian involvement has been demonstrated, the sanctions against Moscow must of course be increased. Is the Prime Minister going to argue for this at the European Summit? I'd like a response. Finally. The EU's ferry service raises almost thousands of migrants every day just off the Libyan coast. Europe can no longer cope with these waves of happiness seekers. We say: bring these people back to Libya immediately and copy the Australian asylum model as soon as possible. It is time for sensible and rational policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. On 20 and 21 October, migration and the EU directives on trade relations and relations with Hungary, Russia and Ukraine will be on the agenda in Brussels. First, a few comments on migration. A migration pact with Ethiopia, Mali and other African countries aims to address the root causes of migration, improve reception in the region and promote return. My question to the Prime Minister is: can you explain to the PVV why you think this is going to work? If you do so in the light of reality as we know it, I ask him. With Morocco we also have all kinds of treaties and we now see that there is a large influx of Moroccan asylum seekers. It is a safe country, yet asylum seekers come from it, knowing that an application for asylum is completely unopposed. Then they go into endless procedures. A lot of these Moroccans stay here, because staying illegally in the Netherlands is very easy. If a few want to return, they will receive, as we read this morning in De Telegraaf, €1,950. We'll pay for the plane ticket for them, too. €1,950 is quite a large amount in Morocco, if you consider that the monthly wage there is about €350. There's some kind of new earning model. That's gonna put us in big trouble. This is the situation in the Netherlands at the moment. In the annotated agenda, we read that the European Union has earmarked EUR 3.1 billion for job creation in African countries with the aim of curbing migration flows. The Commission even plans to mobilise a total of 31 billion in private and public investment. What will be the Dutch share on the public side of the investments? How much is the Dutch taxpayer going to pay on top of that, on top of all the departure premiums that we are now giving to Moroccan asylum seekers who are not going through the procedures, in addition to the airline tickets? I'd like to hear a response. General consultations on CETA are currently under way. I can be brief: we are against CETA, we are against multilateral trade agreements. We have said it many times, in principle we want only bilateral treaties that we as a sovereign trading nation itself conclude with our own trading partners. I come to speak on the EU-Turkey declaration. We read that the approach to migration has the unabated attention of the cabinet, that's what it says. We also know, however, that the European Commission is looking for practical solutions, so that it says so; Mr Verhoeven of D66 has indicated about what these practical solutions are, then, in order to grant Turkey that visa liberalisation as soon as possible. We say it again and we keep repeating it: visa liberalisation for Turkey will lead to a huge influx of Turks, which will further disrupt our large cities and will greatly exacerbate the already massive integration problem there. We will oppose any form of visa liberalisation. In fact, we say stop negotiating with dictator Erdogan. For the most important issue is Ukraine, however, the referendum. The results of the Ukraine referendum will be held by the Prime Minister on 20, 21 October. We have just received a response from the government to Mr Bontes' request. He had asked what was actually discussed at the Tower meeting. It's very surprising: there's nothing in the note we got. That is why we are putting these questions before the Prime Minister. What exactly was discussed? Which party shared your vision and was receptive to your idea that "no" is not actually a "no," but perhaps "yes, if" or "yes, but." What is the government's approach to this issue at the European Council on 20, 21 October? In the meantime, it has become clear that the government has not managed to amend the Association Agreement with Ukraine in such a way that, to use the Prime Minister's words, the "no' vote pronounced by the Dutch electorate on 6 April 2016 was taken into account six months ago. Instead of repealing or ratifying the law, those were the options. The analysis was that the no-thumb was mainly afraid of EU membership for Ukraine and military cooperation with the country, which is also in a state of civil war and has dramatically poor relations with Russia. The Prime Minister tried to adapt the Association Agreement in such a way that those fears would be met. Here and there an adjustment and the no-thumb would be satisfied and move on to the order of the day. And not unimportant: the Prime Minister would not have to disappoint his EU partners, because if the Netherlands did not ratify, the whole treaty would be at risk. At least that was the conclusion that the voter drew. That was the impression the Prime Minister gave here several times. But the Netherlands, or rather the Prime Minister, has never played a very high role in Brussels. Nor has he put forward a concrete proposal. However, at the European summit, the Prime Minister is now declaring that there is still an opening to give a translation of the "no' vote, after that six months. My question to the Prime Minister is: why does he want to investigate at that forthcoming summit whether that opening is there? So far, nothing has been done at all. There has been no concrete plan. Little or no initiative has been taken. On what basis does the Prime Minister base the hope that there are still opportunities to find a solution? We think that's a mission impossible. Why should the other Heads of Government be receptive to this? Is it not true that most of them will be confronted for the first time with that obvious no voice that was heard here in the Netherlands? For the record, we didn't have to. It wasn't even supposed to happen. No is no for us. It's gonna stay that way. The no-comb, to which we belong, can really only draw one conclusion, namely that the Prime Minister, with the result of the referendum, is incredibly in his stomach, that he has no idea what to do with it and that he does not even have the courage to submit it to his colleagues in the European Council, because he knows very well that there is nothing to put forward. All these statements and attempts by the Prime Minister to give that no-vote a translation are nothing more than a perceptive way of postponing and postponing this painful dossier. At least this is felt by the PVV and all PVV-no-voters, as a lack of leadership and political opportunism even. Can the Prime Minister respond to this interpretation? The no-voters of the
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. In this debate on the forthcoming European summit, too, I would like to begin with an apparently uncomfortable and undisputed truth, namely that European cooperation is a process of progress. In this process, more and more people in Europe and in the vicinity of the Netherlands could live in a stable and free democracy, in a community in which we have gained peace and economic prosperity on the continent of Europe and in the Member States with decades of cooperation. This stable and peaceful environment in the Netherlands has at least ensured that we live in one of the most beautiful welfare states in the world and that we have been able to build it. We take these achievements too often and too easily for granted. However, it is absolutely true that European cooperation is under pressure and that we must continue to make progress, especially for those who are lagging behind and who do not benefit from this European cooperation. After all, Europe is more than just a market for companies and for capital. Europe must be closer to the people: equal pay for equal work in the same place. I ask the government about the adaptation of the Detaching Directive, which allows companies to temporarily hire people from other EU Member States for the minimum wage. Exploitation of workers from other countries and displacement of Dutch workers are both not good. The EU must invest in common values, such as the rule of law and human rights, as previous speakers have already mentioned. The EU must also, above all, solve problems. In the spirit of the Bratislava European Summit, the Member States must work towards a common agenda. In this context, we are concerned about developments in the field of migration. The spirit of joint action is regularly replaced by the "everyone for themselves" spirit, which is expressed in the new term "flexible solidarity." That term is an internal contradiction to me and cannot guide European cooperation. Countries such as Hungary and the Czech Republic, which shamelessly propagate that they do not want to take in refugees, especially if they are Islamic refugees, are also members of the European Union. The Netherlands must distance itself from this and take the lead in ensuring that we find solutions that are mutually supportive. Does the Prime Minister strongly address these countries at the forthcoming European Council? I come to the items on the agenda. We read that we are working hard on migration pacts, which will soon be signed with Lebanon and Jordan. Negotiations are in full swing with several African countries. Does this mean that we, as the EU, are finally going to make a real contribution to the reception of refugees in the region? I know that the Netherlands is making considerable efforts to this end, but the reception, protection and prospects for refugees in these countries still need to be improved. There must also be more support for the recipient population. The pressure in countries such as Lebanon and Jordan is enormous. People who are fleeing war and violence must be properly received, but we must also try to take away as much as possible for the reasons why these people are fleeing. This can be done through financial assistance, by focusing on political stability and through increased development cooperation. It is good that Europe is working on this. The PvdA believes that agreements with African and Arab countries to control migration should not focus unilaterally on border surveillance, security or fines. Investing in key issues such as good governance, economic opportunities and human rights is also crucial. It is also good to agree to take back people who do not have the right to asylum, so that people who have to go back can also go back. We believe, however, that those countries that refuse to cooperate in this return should not simply cut back on development aid, because that would put the people most in need of aid at risk. Then you throw the kid away with the bathwater. There should be no money for corrupt governments, but the poorest people in those countries must be supported. The protection of refugees must also be improved at home, on the European continent. The situation for refugees in Greece is still inadequate. Reception, procedures and protection are insufficient. What steps are being taken to ensure that these people are treated properly? We continue to insist that the European states also comply with their agreements on resettlement. It is good that the refugee deal works, but also the humane part has to work. That's not happening yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	I'm glad Mrs. Maij is looking up. My question concerns the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	I had already seen Mr Voordewind, but I thought he might ask a question about the latter. That is why I have just finished this part of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	My question was about reception in the region and what the cabinet can do about it. Of course, we come to an extensive discussion on the budget of the Minister for Development Cooperation, but we have the budget now. It only contains less money for emergency aid and reception in the region. What's the Labour Party gonna do? Is it prepared to look together with the Christian Union at the possibility of additional funds being made available for reception in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u33	The reception in the region is indeed very important. I think it is important that reception in the region is not only done by the Netherlands. That was also the point I was just trying to make. There may be one or two countries that contribute financially well. I believe that the Netherlands has so far made a good financial contribution on its own, but at the same time it cannot be the case that a single Member State does so. This must be done in a much wider context. This will be discussed in the discussion of the budget for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mrs. Maij is talking a little bit about it. She says that other countries should also do something. Of course it is, but of course it can also be and-and. The cabinet, assisted by the opposition, has spent the last few years putting up money, but we're out of money. For next year, even less money will be allocated to emergency aid. There's about 10 million going off. I therefore ask the question again. If the Labour Party considers the reception of refugees in the region so important and wants to make the situation in which refugees reside more humane so that they may not have the need to flee, will the Labour Party, together with the Christian Union, call for more money for the reception in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u35	This is a debate on the European summit and the compacts. I would like to answer that. I have just told Mr Voordewind that it is not just the Netherlands and not just the European Member States, as far as I am concerned. We will certainly come back to this in the debate with Mr Van Laar on development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u37	Then the Brexit. The Prime Minister spoke with his British colleague Prime Minister May this week. Last Monday, she came here to visit. What exactly was her message, and what message did our Prime Minister give her? What subjects has been discussed? For the PvdA, it is important that we maintain a close relationship with the United Kingdom and that the United Kingdom has a close relationship with the European Union. Of course, the United Kingdom must also bear the burden of working together in or with the European Union. I think it would be beneficial for us economically if the United Kingdom were to remain part of the internal market. For us, it is important to ensure that all the agreements relating to them are complied with by all those involved, including the United Kingdom. This also applies to agreements we are currently working on, for example on equal pay for equal work in the same place or on tax avoidance. It cannot be that you have the will, but not the burden of the internal market. I understand that the Dutch Government cannot give too much attention to the ongoing negotiations, but I would nevertheless like the Prime Minister to give the Chamber a little more insight into the Dutch position. I'm going to go into the Bratislava Summit. A so-called road map was agreed at the informal summit in September. Can the Prime Minister provide more insight into the steps that have been taken since then? How has the EU Consensus on Migration improved? Have not the opposite movements taken place in recent weeks? We have already talked about Hungary. Mr Van Bommel also referred to it. Should the Netherlands not take the lead as one of the founders of European cooperation in getting the EU back on track? Is the Prime Minister going to talk to Hungary about this? There are two other points I should like to make briefly. The PvdA supports the government's strategy towards Russia: where necessary robust measures, such as economic sanctions, but at the same time trying to keep diplomatic dialogue alive. Like the cabinet, the PvdA sees no reason to weaken the EU sanctions imposed in response to Russian action in Ukraine, the illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine. After all, no progress has been made on the implementation of the Minsk agreements. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the Ukraine referendum. The PvdA supports the government in putting on the agenda the outcome of this referendum and the cooperation agreement with Ukraine at the European Council. The government's working on this. The Chamber has said that the follow-up must be by November. I think we supported that Chamberwide. Can the government state what expectations it has of the European Council in this respect? What discussions are being held and what steps have been taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u38	I would, of course, like to talk about visa liberalisation. Mrs Maij has just asked me a number of questions, in particular on the procedural side of the matter. I would like a response from her to the fact that we have shown that 19 of the 65 conditions are wrongly ticked off. For example, there is condition 5, the Turkish ID card: only completed in 2018, but already ticked off. I've got 18 more of them. What does the PvdA think of that, in the light of the fact that everyone says that those criteria should not be negotiated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u39	I would like to make it clear once again that my interruption by Mr Verhoeven was not about the procedural side of the matter, but about suggestions. This was about the suggestion which Mr Verhoeven repeated over and over again, namely that there would be pressure on the market. He said so himself. I believe that we have all made it very clear to the government that these criteria should not be applied. The European Parliament has also indicated, through my colleague Kati Piri, but also through colleagues from Mr Verhoeven, that these criteria must not be applied. That is the clear starting point. So my interruption by Mr Verhoeven was about the suggestion, which he always makes, that under pressure from governments and government leaders, including from the Dutch Government, there would be blackmail. He can't prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u40	There's been blackmail at 19 out of 65 ticked-off criteria. Would the PvdA really like to go into that? Nineteen criteria appear to be very premature, even unjustified, or on the basis of a particularly high level of confidence. These are all things that are not yet in order and are all the Commission's judgements on Turkey. This concerns the security of migratory flows, Turkish passports and the possibility of falsifying them. Would Mrs Maij care to comment on this? I thought 19 of the 65 criteria were just blackmailed. How does the PvdA feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u41	I think we should take this issue very seriously. I just got his research from Mr Verhoeven. He left that with us. I hope he will give us an opportunity to really see if his conclusions are correct. But I had seen differences very quickly, for example between Mr Voordewind's report and Mr Verhoeven's report. Mr Voordewind clearly stated that he and his colleague and World Vision were at certain points and that he based his conclusions on them. From the introduction of Mr Verhoeven's report, I cannot take that very quickly. I don't know where he got his ideas from. I would very much like to read the research and then come back to it in substance. But frankly, I find the suggestion that there has been a blackmail too heavy to take this off now with a quickie.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u42	Those are the words of Mrs Maij. We have simply read the Commission's texts. The Commission added to each criterion why it had ticked it and why not. Then we made an analysis: was it right to put a check mark there, or a provisional check mark or no check mark? There appear to be a lot of ticks in a lot of places that would be absolutely premature or unjustified on the basis of Turkey's progress. I'm fine with Mrs Maij wanting to read it through again. But if it then came to the conclusion that what the Commission has written and the current situation in Turkey is disintegrating, it would have to conclude that criteria have been negotiated that have not yet been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u43	Again, these are not my words. Because this is so important, I don't think we should take this off with a quickie. I really want to be able to read and study what you've done. At the same time, I think it is important to note that we have said to the government Chamber-wide, so all of us, that the criteria must not be blackmailed. I think that was also the signal from the European Parliament to the Commission. We will have to look at the content of this later. I would very much like to assess the substance of this, and not just go one-two-three.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. We spoke recently in the Chamber, in the run-up to the Bratislava Summit, about European affairs. I said at the time that people are concerned about major problems, such as migration, and that it is time for the European Union to solve these major cross-border problems. After the Bratislava Summit, I see the beginning of a solution to major problems, such as migration. I am thinking of the control of the external borders and the safeguarding of Europe's internal and external security. That is good, because those are the things that affect people: terrorism and migration. It is important that we really do something about this. It shouldn't just be about intentions, but we have to do something. My group is eagerly looking forward to the so-called migration compacts, which Mr Maij has also mentioned. In doing so, we agree with countries in Africa and the Middle East to ensure that migration problems remain under control. We make agreements with Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Mali, Jordan and Lebanon. Is it just intention, or are these compacts really closed? When does the Prime Minister expect the migration compacts to be closed with these countries? In the annotated agenda that we have received for this debate, the cabinet states that it remains with these countries for the time being. Is that wise? Shouldn't you be making those appointments with other countries? Why is the cabinet so reluctant about this? The EU is slowly trying to solve the problems. It is good that the European Union is helping Bulgaria to control Europe's external borders. The revision of the European budget shows that this is slowly becoming a priority. That's a good sign. It is a pity that the European Parliament does not understand this, because instead of money to solve the migration problems, it now wants money for InterRail: free travel across Europe by train. I am not entirely sure whether this is the biggest problem in Europe. Last time we also talked about the EFSI, the European Fund for Strategic Investments, also called Juncker Fund. Some say that more money should be needed to boost employment. My group has already said that you are not encouraging the economy with extra money and that you better reform your economy, but well. The Prime Minister said there would be an evaluation before any additional money goes to this fund. Is he gonna stick with that? Are we still gonna do that? How's that gonna happen? How and by whom is the evaluation carried out? The Brexit has already been mentioned by colleagues Van Bommel and Maij. The Prime Minister said last time that he could not say too much about it in public because it was negotiations, but I read in the newspaper that the cabinet is ready as a fit boxer. Could the Prime Minister say something about his training to become some kind of Rocky? Can he say exactly what Prime Minister May wants with the United Kingdom? We have been able to follow that the Conservative Party has had a conference and that Prime Minister May has said that it will call in Article 50 at the end of March or by the end of April next year at the latest. That is the official moment when the UK says we are leaving. How does the Prime Minister view this? How does he feel about that? What is the position of the Netherlands? Are we well prepared, as colleagues have already asked? Then I'll come to China. The agenda states that trade relations with China will be discussed. If nothing else happens, China will be classified as a market economy by December 2016; that is what it is called in jargon. Should we be afraid of dumping Chinese products? What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? Where will the discussions lead next week? It will also talk about sanctions against Russia. I believe that nothing has changed in Russia's behaviour, so we do not need to change the sanctions: they can be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr Mulder spoke, among other things, of the Turkey deal. We have been there, but I understand that he has not yet been able to read our report on this subject. I have just listed a number of concerns about the treatment of refugees in Turkey. Does Mr Mulder also think that this is a reason to share these concerns in the European Council and to raise the issue of how these refugees are being dealt with in miserable circumstances? Six billion of our money is going to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u46	It is very good that we in the House of Representatives are going to look on the spot as much as possible, so I would like to congratulate Mr Voordewind on his report. The Turkey deal works to some extent. Migration flows are decreasing and there are fewer drownings in the Aegean Sea. At the same time, the cabinet letter talks about difficult conditions in Turkey. Mrs Maij, too, would like the cabinet to respond to this. I am very curious to know what the cabinet thinks of his report, which I have unfortunately not read myself, and about the treatment of refugees in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then I'll wait and see. Two weeks ago, Professor Spijkerboer said that it was not so much the Turkey deal of 18 March, but much more the closure of the Balkan countries in November. Apart from that, money is being spent in Turkey, fortunately not the entire 6 billion, but just about 200 million. Last time, the Prime Minister said there wasn't a penny going into Erdogan's account. It has come to my attention that the EU delegation is being put under pressure to use parts through Turkish NGOs, i.e. through the Turkish authorities. Does the VVD Group find that unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr Voordewind says that, but I want to make sure that that is true. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet and I congratulate you on your valuable fieldwork in Turkey. There are two effects on the Balkan route. On the one hand, the closure of the Balkan route works and on the other hand you have the Turkey deal. Some parties say that we need to lift the Turkey deal, because by closing the Balkan route alone, the problem has been solved. I wouldn't want to take that risk. You will notice, I am challenging the PVV a little bit, because that party wants to take that risk with the migration. I just don't know if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u49	The VVD has always attached great importance to safety. I would like to draw Mr Mulder's attention to a criterion in my list, because I think it is important that he looks closely at this. It concerns criterion 29, the mechanism for monitoring migration flows and risk analysis. It states that Turkey needs to develop a mechanism to properly map migration flows in order to address the threat of terrorism. What does the Commission say? That is a skill that the Turkish IND has yet to develop. However, the Commission has simply ticked off this criterion and said: fine, it is fine, a green check because it is all under control. What does the VVD think of that way of ticking down criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u50	I think that you can be quite critical of the European Commission at times, for example when it comes to the Stability and Growth Pact. The Commission is quite honest in saying 'France is France' and admits itself to being a little more flexible with its criteria. The danger which threatens Mr Verhoeven's point is that he questions the decision of what I call the referee. You can do that, but if you do that in the way Mr Verhoeven does it by suggesting that we are being put under pressure, then you are going too far. You are making the Commission vulnerable, because the Poles and Hungarians are going to say, "They're just messing around. Why? Well, I just think so, 'cause they might do that a lot. With Mr Verhoeven's comment, you will find yourself in a situation that you should not want, namely the situation in which the referee no longer has authority. That is my main objection to what Mr Verhoeven is doing. Of course, you never have to believe anyone but their blue eyes, but you have to be careful not to take anyone's authority away. This threatens, even in Turkey, when the Council of Europe interferes with benchmark 65 on terrorist legislation, in an attempt to objectify it. The Council of Europe is dealing with this. So you have to be careful not to say that this kind of authority, including in Turkey, is all haggling and oppressive. Then everybody's gonna go shopping!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u51	Shopping! When did the VVD stop thinking about things and look critically at things as part of the control task we have in this Parliament? Since when does the VVD believe that if another organisation does bad work, we should let that happen because that is the responsibility of that organisation? That is what the VVD and also the PvdA all the time suggest under the guise of: D66 has picked something out and it probably doesn't add up. It is literally in the Commission's texts. I'm going to benchmark 29, because it's pretty concrete. It's about threat, terror and migratory flows. The Commission has literally said that it is a skill that Turkey, the Turkish IND, has yet to develop. That's not in order yet. That is what the Commission itself writes. And yet she says: ticked off. Is it so crazy that there is one party in this Parliament that says that perhaps the criteria based on research are being negotiated after all? How does the VVD feel about that? And apart from all those stories about not thinking for yourself, just give a substantive opinion!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u52	It is not a question of Mr Verhoeven looking at these criteria but of suggesting that they will have been put under pressure. That is the main objection to Mr Verhoeven's speech. In doing so, he undermines the authority of the Commission. He can't prove that either. He's making suggestions here, while it's facts that bind this Chamber. Our ideas may be very different from each other, but if we don't have the facts here, just suggestions, then it's not gonna get along. Then we undermine our authority, then we undermine the authority of the Commission and the Council of Europe. That's very unwise. I would therefore like Mr Verhoeven not to do that, to stick to the investigation he has done and to submit it to the cabinet. I don't want him to come up with the suggestion that there might have been a blackmail, because he has the impression that they've been put under pressure, without him proving it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u53	I'll tell you exactly what it says on criterion 29. These are the facts that Mr Mulder has suddenly put so much emphasis on. In times of electoral rhetoric of the VVD, when the facts are easily put aside, I would like to point out the hard fact based on the proper reading of those texts. This fact shows that the Turkish IND is not yet in control of migratory flows and that the Commission has decided, together with eighteen other criteria, to undo this criterion unjustly and prematurely. Those are the facts. I'll ask the VVD the following question. What does the Commission think about the fact that the Commission is ticking off criteria which are not yet in order, so that there are all kinds of risks as a result of the possible overly rapid granting of visa liberalisation? That is my question to the VVD. Would Mr Mulder please answer this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u54	I want to say two things. It is good that Mr Verhoeven is doing that research. It is also a good thing that he presents this to the cabinet, which makes an independent assessment. But I regret that Mr Verhoeven, with all these suggestions, has undermined his speech. Perhaps we agree that it is good to check, but that it is not good to make all kinds of suggestions here that cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address a number of issues: Ukraine, migration, the Turkey deal, Brexit, ISIS and genocide. I'll start with Ukraine. After nine months of CDA questions, the Prime Minister acknowledges the situation. In the case of a Dutch "no" against the Association Treaty, the EU can conclude part of the treaty itself. The other part of the Convention may be concluded by other Member States in bilateral agreements. They're free to do that. Almost a month ago, the Prime Minister promised an overview of the articles covered by Part One, the part falling under the excessive competence of the European Union, and the articles covered by Part Two. The latter therefore fall within the competence of the countries themselves. However, the letter was rather vague. It's said that this is about it. We would like to have the precise overview. The Prime Minister is going to make a dinner speech about the Ukraine referendum. That's just the part where there's no official agenda. Could he give us an outline of what he will say at dinner on behalf of the Dutch government about the Ukraine referendum? We check from the Lower House what he does, so we would like to know what he says on behalf of the Netherlands. I believe that all those who voted in the referendum are entitled to that. The second point on Ukraine concerns the MH17. Colleagues Bontes and Verhoeven have already raised this issue. The JIT (Joint Investigation Team) has come up with its findings. We will now have to join forces with other countries to keep Russia, for example, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 2166. The Netherlands alone will not be able to do so; we are just not geopolitical enough for that. Since we are in the Union, I think that through this forum we should press for a little more cooperation with Russia. Through this forum, we should also ask the US about certain dates. The U.S. would declassify radar images, but they still haven't. So we could also ask the US questions. When does the Prime Minister intend to take this issue, as well as setting up a joint tribunal, because if there are suspects, it is necessary to check whether they are guilty and, if so, should they be tried and punished in the European Union? Has he done that yet? Should the Prime Minister not be able to answer all the questions, is he prepared to attend the debate on the MH17? Colleagues have already talked a lot about the Turkey deal. The signals from Turkey are disturbing. Erdogan is acting harshly against his political opponents and the Turkish rule of law is under enormous pressure. Does the Netherlands still consider Turkey to be a rule of law, now that 100,000 officials have been dismissed and tens of thousands of officials, including judges, are in prison? Let me join with Mr Verhoeven. On 15 June last, a number of cases were checked, including the rule of law. Is it possible that a green check mark becomes a red cross again? The rule of law and cooperation with judges and prosecutors in Turkey have been a lot worse since the previous report. Or is a ticked-off point gone right away? If the latter is the case, I would like things to be monitored continuously from now on. For example, we still regard legal cooperation as a whole. If it is not possible to put Saban B. behind bars, who has been convicted of this crime for years, and if dozens of convicted Dutch-Turkish people are free in Turkey, can't you talk about cooperation? I'll get to the Brexit. It is clear that the British will bring Article 50 into force in March 2017. The Netherlands will have to prepare itself for this, if only because we are Britain's second trading partner. For us, therefore, huge economic interests are at stake. What is the proactive attitude of the Dutch government? Can the Prime Minister put on the table a strategy, a vision, a wish list himself, so that the damage to the Dutch economy remains as small as possible and cooperation with the British remains as good as possible, even after the Brexit? Is he willing to explain something to us here? I was a little disappointed by the fact that we are receiving a confidential letter on the Bratislava process. I can't even talk about that here. Why is it not possible to get a letter in public about how we are going to reform the Union? That's about round. We all see that it is necessary; one is a little more for the Union than the other, but it is quite clear that certain mechanisms in the Union are not working at the moment. It is also quite clear that the Brexit has revealed certain concerns of citizens who also live elsewhere. Wouldn't it help if the Dutch government openly communicated on how we proceed with this? We are talking a lot about Syria and Syrian refugees, but the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the American Congress, Minister Kerry and the House of Commons have acknowledged that ISIS committed genocide and committed crimes against Jezidis, Christians and religious Muslim minorities. All EU countries have signed the Convention against Genocide. Now there are thousands of nationals of France, the Netherlands and Denmark who have participated in this genocide. Surely it is a joint responsibility of the European Union to put an end to this and to prevent and punish its own citizens? When will that finally be brought up? When are we going to sign and ratify the protocol against foreign fighters, on the basis of which every Member State must also punish foreign fighters? It's been stuck in the Council of Europe for a long time. Will the European Union ensure that a resolution is finally adopted in the UN Security Council to set up a tribunal or refer it to the ICC in The Hague, where people can be tried for genocide? Not one person has been punished for this, while it's been going on for a few years. The Prime Minister can talk about the reception of refugees, but he could also ensure that the people who committed the most bizarre human rights violations and genocide are punished. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u56	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of discussion. It's hard to summarize that in sections. I tried to do that anyway. I shall begin with a number of questions that have been asked about the visit of Theresa May, the new British Prime Minister, last Monday. In essence, I have reiterated the position of the Netherlands, namely that the well-known Article 50 should first be triggered. We can't negotiate until that happens. For the Netherlands, of course, we are considering very carefully the way in which we intend to conduct these negotiations. I can, of course, promise the Chamber that if these negotiations come into sight, we will share the cabinet commitment with the Chamber. We do not do that because we have agreed in Europe that we will not negotiate until Article 50 has been triggered. If all the countries in public tell us how they look at these negotiations, it weakens the negotiating position of Europe as a whole. In this context, we have also asked the International Questions Advisory Council (AIV) to give an opinion on the future relationship with the United Kingdom. A technical briefing for the European Affairs Committee was also promised by Minister Koenders of Foreign Affairs. In this technical briefing, we will, of course, also discuss all kinds of aspects, but in a way that will not harm our negotiating position. Many members had asked questions about this, about the VVD, the Labour Party, D66 and other groups. Then what are these conversations about? I cannot say everything about this, because of course they are confidential. It will be clear that freedom of movement versus access to the internal market is a key issue. For our part, I have emphasised that we attach great importance to the link between free movement and possible access to the internal market. The Netherlands, because of the great trade interests in the relationship with England, attaches great importance to a positive outcome of all these talks. However, it is complex. The national interest is paramount for the Netherlands. From a Dutch perspective, we look primarily at our jobs and our companies. That brings me to the question: how to proceed with Europe? The Bratislava process was discussed. There were not so many questions about this in substance, but they were procedural. I can tell the CDA that this document is indeed confidential according to EU rules. It is well known that during our presidency we have tried to increase transparency and make these documents public. That's what we're still committed to. In reply to Mr Omtzigt, I say that, as we know, this has not yet been achieved. These kinds of documents are therefore confidential for the time being. He was right to notice. I say to Mrs Maij that our commitment to these talks is well known. We are committed to a future arrangement in Europe focusing on a number of key issues, including the internal market, external borders, migration and the fight against terrorism. These were also the themes that were at the heart of our presidency. I come to the area of migration in general. I shall, of course, come back to Turkey even more comprehensively, but first I would like to say something in a general sense. Of course, there's a lot going on there. The Foreign Minister has visited a number of countries in Eastern Europe in recent weeks. The Secretary of State for V and J is also working on this. There's a few things going on. Firstly, we are talking about the external borders. It is good that there is consensus on the importance of proper surveillance of external borders. The European Border and Coast Guard was launched in Bulgaria on 6 October. It's gotten there at a hell of a rate. We are proud to note that this has happened under our Presidency. It is now important that all Member States make people and resources available. They're working hard on that. The second main point is, of course, the influx. I will come to the question as to what is going on with all these migration pacts. In general terms, there is, of course, a great consensus on controlling the influx. There are proposals from the Commission on the Common European Asylum System. These proposals are ongoing and should lead to an improvement. There is also a high degree of consensus on strengthening reception in the region. In addition to some of those agreements with Africa, which I will address in a moment, it is also important to establish these migration pacts with Lebanon and Jordan. It is expected that the Foreign Affairs Council will adopt it on 17 October. This is also in line with our letter of September last year, in which we say that we should eventually move towards a system where people in the region are being taken care of and that we are only prepared to bring people to Europe by means of resettlement, subject to very high pressure on the region, but not through the way people travel on their own. Which brings me to the questions about Africa. We have been asked about the selection of countries. The European Council, as you know, made a first selection on 28 June. You can always discuss this, but it is now important to make a success of these compacts. We need to shut it down. That doesn't mean we're doing nothing for other countries. We are explicitly dealing with Lebanon and Jordan, but we are also active in Syria's neighbouring countries. We are working with a large number of other countries as part of the follow-up to the Valletta Summit. Then it's specifically about Africa. As a follow-up to this question, I would like to point out that a number of very clear objectives are linked to the country-specific compacts. Firstly, it is a question of preventing drowning in the Mediterranean. In this context, there is a measurable increase in return and readmission to countries of origin and transit. Thirdly, it is a question of giving refugees and migrants the opportunity to stay close to home and to avoid making this dangerous journey. This is linked to the commitment to the elimination of the root causes. It's being worked on incredibly hard. We're working on Africa. We are currently a long way from Niger and Mali, with Senegal. More needs to be done for Nigeria and Ethiopia. Once more is known and the compacts are closed, we can also see if they help to achieve the intended short- and long-term goals. Questions have also been asked about the return of Moroccans, but that is a bit more nuanced. In some cases, a premium is given. This was done in 20 cases in 2016. The essence, however, is that we do not want this at all and that we will always focus on the most robust and effective course to get people back. The essence of this is to keep looking at what is the most effective way, how we can get people who are not entitled to asylum back home and how we can prevent them from coming here at all. Most people with an Algerian or Moroccan background who are here can be referred to the surrounding countries on the basis of the Dublin claim. That is good news, but that does not solve the European problem. This brings me to a number of issues surrounding Ukraine. First, the referendum. We talk about it regularly in plenary. I understand that, but the national no vote leads to a very complex international reality because it is about a multilateral treaty. If I am asked why I am not simply saying no, I answer that the government is obliged to consider all interests carefully and responsibly, both at home and abroad. As long as I see the slightest chance of a solution, I'm working on it. We are, of course, doing so internationally, because we cannot separate this association agreement with Ukraine from the geopolitical tensions at the eastern border of Europe. It is really necessary that the European countries also cooperate with Ukraine. Both Ukraine and Europe assess the association agreement as essential at a time when Russia is trying to expand its sphere of influence. Then unanimity is of the utmost importance. This weighs heavily on me and on our European partners, but also on the European Union as a whole. Let us not forget that the association agreement was the reason for the massive protests in Kiev against the regime at the time. That is why we are actively seeking a solution that also reflects what was discussed in the debate in the run-up to the referendum. I think that is really in the interests of the no-voters. Mr Omtzigt referred to this. If we do not ratify, there is a very good chance that a lot will continue. Last Friday, the Foreign Minister also wrote a letter on this subject. Then there can be a situation in which we say no and then it goes on for the most part. I called it "the cat in the bag" effect. Of that, the no-shocker could be caught light, and I would understand that too. So there are geopolitical arguments for dealing with this very carefully. But there are also arguments to do good expectations management here in the Netherlands. We need to look at how we can deal with this in terms of content. If I am then asked if I am hopeful, I can say that I am not. I think that the chances of finding a substantive answer are considerably less than the chance that it doesn't work. What was discussed last Monday? Last Monday's discussion includes a whole series of telephone and other contacts on all fronts, with Ukraine, with colleagues in Brussels, both the Council and the Commission and the Member States, as well as, of course, with national policy. A possible solution must be able to land in all these places. And yes, we are, of course, working on the compass of the motion which has been unanimously adopted and which calls on the government to clarify the follow-up before 1 November. I believe it was the Pechtold motion, which was adopted during the General Political Reviews. I see that Mr Bontes wishes to interrupt, but I would like to see if there are any other issues on this particular issue of the Ukraine referendum that I have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u58	I wanted to ask you that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u59	No, I think I have answered all the questions about the Ukraine referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u60	A referendum is a beautiful, democratic instrument. That fine instrument was put away by the Prime Minister by negotiating with opposition parties in the back chambers on what to do with the outcome of that referendum. Why did the Prime Minister choose back room meetings? This belongs in the Chamber, doesn't it? Why have only a few political parties been invited to this consultation? Why aren't they all invited? Some parties have not been approached. In particular, the yes-voters have been invited. The democratic process is therefore completely disrupted by the Prime Minister's choice. Maybe he can explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u61	I just did. In the search for a solution for which there are both geopolitical and national arguments, we are dealing with Ukraine, with the other 27 EU Member States, with the Commission and with the Presidency of the Council. In addition, we are dealing with the question of whether a possible solution would also have sufficient political support at national level. It is then inevitable that you will be in close contact with all those different players. This can only be done in confidence. My experience after six years of this job is that in very complex political relations in a fragmented political landscape, not everything can be done in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u62	The Prime Minister certainly does not choose to invite all parties in the course of the talks. Because he only invited the yes-voters, in secret. He's gonna sit around and talk to them about things. I would like to know what has been discussed there. I asked for a letter in which the Prime Minister could explain that. That letter really doesn't say anything. It's just a shame a letter like that was sent. If I were the Prime Minister, I wouldn't even dare send a letter like that, but the Prime Minister did. It's really a piece of shit letter. That is why I am asking what was discussed in this secret Torentjes meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u63	I can only say that it was there, of course, about the search for a substantive solution to the no vote in the consultative referendum. These talks are of their nature and must be of a confidential nature. This can't happen in public. That is why these contacts are taking place, also by telephone or in other ways. Such contacts also take place with colleagues in Brussels and Ukraine. Not all of that can happen in public. If we were to do all that publicly, this country would still be in the middle of a crisis. We are now getting out of this because we are also regularly looking for solutions to complex political issues. In doing so, it is important that there is always a full and transparent explanation of what has happened afterwards. I'm very attached to that. Things must be opened after that. As an example, the negotiations at the Ministry of Finance in October 2013 to support the government's programme at that time. Afterwards, of course, in a debate in the Chamber, all those involved were fully accountable for what was discussed there. Such an agreement can only be reached in confidence. So I can't give access to that during the ride either. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u64	You're not going to choose backrooms in such a democratic process, are you? Then you're not going to block that process by making conversations that are supposed to be confidential. After all, the Prime Minister does not want to give an answer. You're not gonna choose that, are you? It is democracy and the voice of the people, isn't it? The people elected in this referendum. It said no to the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. By doing it this way with a few opposition parties, the voter is offended, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr Bontes would be absolutely right if decisions were taken on a confidential basis and were subsequently not fully and transparently accountable. However, I can assure Mr Bontes that if it were possible to find an answer to the substance of the 'no' vote, I am not positive about that, as I have already said in the General Political Reviews and what I have just said, I would be the first to ensure full and transparent accountability about the process and its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u66	I have two more questions about the Ukraine referendum. The first question concerns the dinner speech that the Prime Minister is going to make. We know that the Union expects the Prime Minister to put a proposal on the table. What proposal is the Prime Minister going to put on the table there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u67	I'll talk to my colleagues about that. It is not the case that at some point the proposal is on the table. The search for a solution with both Kiev and colleagues in Brussels and with colleagues here is a process of many steps. I'll use the dinner speech to explain the progress of the conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u68	Before November 1st there will be a yes or a no. So this is the last time the Prime Minister is in consultation with his colleagues on the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. Then he has to say: this is about what I would like? What proposal is he going to put on the table on behalf of the Netherlands? After all, this will be his last attempt. It's not a "state of affairs" discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u69	The motion before us will be carried out. It calls for the follow-up to be clarified before 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u70	I understand that motion is being carried out. Then we hear it on 1 November, but the Prime Minister is there on behalf of the Netherlands and we check him beforehand by asking him what commitment he is going with. The Prime Minister is therefore committed to the Ukraine referendum, but for us it is completely vague what that commitment will be. My second request is Mr President-in-Office, this is my third interruption on this point, to provide a list of things that fall within the competence of the Union, article by article. After all, that has been promised. Now it is done with: about Article 25 to 400 and so much with what exceptions fall under exclusive competence, but we do not know which one. I want to know exactly what competence the Union has. This is also important for the debate on 1 November. So can we get that list by November 1st? And can the Prime Minister now tell us what his commitment will be, or can we only hear the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u71	I just answered the last question. For my response to Mr Omtzigt's second request, I really refer to last Friday's letter, in which we describe in detail what Europe can do: in the fine jargon it is called 'EU only'. Of course, this requires the support of the Council. I believe that even a qualified majority in the Council is necessary. It's already known. So this is how you can find it. In addition, there are, of course, a number of things that belong to the exclusive powers of the Member States and my political expectation is that the 27 Member States are going to value it, so I might be wrong to conclude an intergovernmental agreement on those matters that fall within the competence of the Member State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u72	Am I to understand that the letter was sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u73	Yeah, it was sent last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr Omtzigt, only on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u75	Yes. That agreement in the Official Journal has 1,200 pages, including the annexes. However, we received a letter from two sides which states: about Article 25 to about article 400 and so much fall under exclusive jurisdiction, except for a number of articles falling under mixed jurisdiction. That's not exactly enough. I really want to know, article by article, that question we have been asking for six months now what matters the EU can take care of and which things can necessarily only go according to that possible intergovernmental treaty. I would like to receive that insight before 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u76	I'm referring to last Friday's letter. I think that answers the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr Omtzigt, you have a second term. You can go back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u78	There are still a few things to do with this. Firstly, the question of Ukraine, Russia and Minsk and the agreements that have been made there. I do not need to remind the Chamber of the fact that we all know that this conflict has arisen because Russia has blatantly violated Ukraine's sovereignty. That alone lays a particular responsibility for resolving the conflict in Moscow and not in Kiev. I am also saying this in the direction of the Socialist Party where I heard a slightly different accent. I really believe that Ukraine can only eventually become stable when it has sovereign authority over the whole territory and, not to mention, when control over its own borders has been restored. Against this background, of course, the Cabinet believes that the Minsk agreement should ultimately be fully implemented and that all parties concerned should assume their responsibilities. This means that Ukraine must of course be expected to take all steps towards greater autonomy for the regions of the East, which is part of the Minsk process, and free and fair elections in the occupied parts of the Donbass. This must, of course, be seen in conjunction with other parts of Minsk and the security agreements. In this respect, the separatists and the Russians in particular must take a step forward. We are on top of that and we have joined closely with the Normandy-Format, the trilateral contact group and the good work of the President of France and the Chancellor of Germany. A question has been asked about possible sanctions for bombing the opposition and civilian targets in Syria. First of all, because there was also a link to MH17, that the current sanction package has nothing to do with Syria or MH17. This is due to the occupation of Crimea and the interference in Eastern Ukraine. This is also a legal basis for Russian action in Ukraine. It is not easy, let me say right away, at least much less simple than it might seem, to introduce additional sanctions in response to Russian action in Syria. You should take a whole new EU sanctions decision for this, and that should be done unanimously. I suspect that, given the current field of force surrounding sanctions in Russia, the sanctions currently in place for the occupation of Crimea and interfering in Eastern Ukraine will not be fundamentally challenged. My suspicion, also given the force field surrounding Russia's sanctions, is that it is very difficult to take a new sanction decision because of the action in Syria. That does not mean that I agree with everyone who has expressed his horror about the tragedy that is taking place at Aleppo. However, it seems to me to be extremely damaging and a great victory for Russia if Europe were to have a whole debate on sanctions for its actions in Syria and if it did not succeed in doing so. My assessment is that it's extremely complicated. That does not alter the fact that, of course, I agree with everyone that these horrible bombings on Aleppo must stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u79	The Prime Minister refers to the history of the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. He mentioned me explicitly when it comes to Russia's responsibility. That won't be necessary. We both know the history and the judgment on it is similar. I am concerned about the situation now and the implementation of the Minsk agreement. My question is this. There is pressure on Russia, but is there pressure on Kiev to meet the conditions set out in the Minsk agreement, because that is not being met either?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u80	Sure. I myself had the opportunity to have a conversation with the Ukrainian President after Simon Perez's funeral last Friday. We discussed this issue in detail at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u81	Does the Prime Minister have the impression that steps are being taken from Kiev, for example in relation to greater autonomy for the region that has been mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u82	On the basis of these talks, my assessment and my observation is that the Ukrainian leadership is very aware of this, that it is politically complex and that they are currently dealing with the agreements that have been reached on what the separatists and Russians should do on the security issues associated with the Minsk agreements, but that hardly any progress is made on that side. For example, on the issue of fair and free elections in that part of Ukraine, there is a real need for more from the separatists and Russia. First of all, the ceasefire will have to be respected. The heavy weapons must be withdrawn. That's all on the table. Of course, I fully agree with Van Bommel that we must also keep pressure on Ukraine. I do that myself; we all do that, but I keep saying that Ukraine is not occupied by Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u83	The Prime Minister outlined the possible discussion that would take place in the European Union if additional or heavier sanctions were envisaged for Russia and if they were to be included on the agenda. That is actually the main argument for him not to go along with it now; at least that's how I understood him. However, I am particularly curious about the assessment and position of the Netherlands itself in relation to that discussion. Can the Prime Minister, apart from the fact that this discussion is taking place and its possible impact, also address the government's own position on heavier sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u84	This, of course, always depends on the feasibility. It doesn't make much sense to send out strong signals if you're not sure there's support for that as well. What I ultimately want is not for us to stand with clean hands; what I want is for the bombing to stop. I believe that all our efforts should be directed towards this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u85	I also see that feasibility and position as interrelated, but of course you should not continue to do so endlessly, because then you will only take positions that are feasible. I do not think that would be good, especially on more fundamental points. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the Dutch Government feels about heavier sanctions for Russia based on the bombing of Aleppo? Apart from the fact that I understand very well that unanimity of the European Council is difficult to achieve, I would therefore like to know from him how he himself looks at the substance of this matter. It's important to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u86	I just gave you the answer. As a national government, you cannot say: this is what I think. I have just said that it is important for Europe to speak with one voice. If I answered Mr Verhoeven's question with a yes, it would come out: this is the position of the Dutch Government, but that is not the European position. I think it is much more relevant that we as an incoming member of the Security Council, from our current position as President-in-Office of the European Union, were very satisfied with this and as a member of the current troika of the European Union, with Malta and Slovakia, using all those roles to maximise the pressure where we can. The Netherlands is also a member of, say, the Geneva club. So we are involved on all sides. That seems much more sensible to me than to take very fundamental positions, and we have to conclude that these are not feasible. After all, we would see the same thing as in the Middle East, which are proxy wars. I don't think there's any point. I'd really like to go for effectiveness here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u88	I must therefore understand that, according to the Prime Minister, the objective on which D66 and the Cabinet agree, namely that the terrible situation in Aleppo and the bombing of Russia must be over as quickly as possible, can be better achieved by dealing effectively with a number of roles in the greater interplay than by being clear as a Member State about its own position. That's actually what the Prime Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u89	Yeah, that's a perfect summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u90	So I have to accept that and the Prime Minister cannot say anything about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u91	Again: I explain why I'm consciously cautious and subtle in my expressions, because I don't think it makes much sense to say as the Netherlands that it should be A, B, C, X, Y or Z. In my view, this is where the unity of the European Union vis-à-vis Russia counts. That's crucial to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u92	On 30 September, the UN decided to investigate the bombed relief convoy. There are rumors that the Russians would be involved in that bombing. Those are rumors; therefore, that investigation must take place, but if that investigation shows that the Russians have been responsible for bombing a humanitarian convoy that went to those besieged cities, I know that that is a question of like-dan, but I would ask that question, is that perhaps a hook for the Prime Minister to say that we really need to increase the pressure on Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr Voordewind himself gave the answer: that is a really like-dan question. We have to do this one step at a time. I don't want the Netherlands calling tough A, or tough X, Y or Z. I want us to be effective. At the moment we are not collective. The world community is not effective. Terrible things are happening at Aleppo right now. We all see that. That's what we're all looking at. I have only one goal, and that is to make our contribution so that the bombing can be stopped. The last thing I want to do now is shout out some tough things and think "at least we've done everything we can." I'm not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u94	I understand the complex. That has to do with the MH17 et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u95	That has nothing to do with the MH17. It really has nothing to do with the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u96	In the end, we need the Russians' help...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u97	No, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I really object to this. This has nothing to do with the MH17.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u98	Apart from the MH17, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u99	Yeah, okay. We can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u100	Then it has to do with Eastern Ukraine. Then let me narrow it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u101	No, I am concerned about the unity of Europe vis-à-vis Syria. It also has nothing to do with Ukraine or Crimea. This has to do with the importance of united action on Aleppo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The red line was previously used by America, namely in the use of chemical weapons in Syria. I'm trying to think along with the Prime Minister. What would the red line be if we wanted to say to the Russians and to Assad "you're really going over this"? I'll give that to the Prime Minister. I do not expect any promises or anything at all, but I would like to say to the Prime Minister that the bombing of the aid convoy was a terrible act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u104	Terrible!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u105	I'll give it to the Prime Minister; I don't need an answer to that. A little further away from the war: when the research results arrive, could bombing an auxiliary convoy be a hook to grab this and say 'we really need to do something with this'?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u106	I fully agree with the condemnation and the appreciation that Mr van der Waal gives of these terrible facts. Next, the question is how to act as effectively as possible. I listened very carefully to Mr Voordwind's suggestion. I've explained why I don't want to respond to that. I understand that Mr Voordewind has accepted it, but I would like to say one more time: this has nothing to do with Crimea, Eastern Ukraine or the MH17. It has everything to do with the answer to the question of how the world community can be as effective as possible at Aleppo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u107	I have a question about the MH17. I understand that the MH17 must be seen separately from Crimea and Syria. Then let us discuss it separately for a moment. You can see that the Russians wiped the JIT investigation off the table in a rude manner. They have come constantly with disinformation, smoke curtains and wandering veils. They put everyone on the wrong foot; we know that. My question is: can the sanctions imposed on the Russians in relation to the JIT investigation into the MH17 not be extended? I also heard this in the contributions of Mr Omtzigt and Mr Verhoeven. They also call for increased pressure and increased sanctions. Isn't there a hook to put that to colleagues in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u108	In my view, we all, including Mr Bontes, have but one goal: to get the names of the perpetrators and offenders before the courts in another phase of the public prosecutor's investigation, in cooperation with our partners in the Joint Investigation Team. That's what it's all about. Through Mr Bontes and through you, President, I say straight away to Mr Omtzigt that we will make the choice for one of the options available for a tribunal as soon as the JIT, based on its assessment of the type of names it has, indicates what choice we can make best. So we are not going to make that choice now. We will make them as soon as the Joint Investigation Team gives us an indication of the best way to shape the execution on the basis of its further investigation. Let me say this in response to the point made by Mr Omtzigt. I shall return to Mr Bontes. As we know, we have understood ourselves in this respect with Russia. I think we should do it carefully and step by step. On Wednesday the very impressive presentation of Fred Westerbeke and his people from the Joint Investigation Team was broadcast on TV worldwide. Our first reaction was to call on Russia to cooperate fully. We decided on that Thursday to take a big step forward, because from Wednesday evening onwards and throughout Thursday, Russia continued to cast doubt on the investigation and, as Mr Bontes said, to put the investigation in a bad light. For this reason, we have made it clear to Russia in the strongest terms that we assume that it is cooperating in Resolution 2166 and that it is abstaining from this type of expression. Mr Bontes wants to go one step further. I do not agree with that, because it would, in my opinion, point the finger at one country. You can only identify or accuse a country if you know more on the basis of the list of names that will come out. From that list, we could draw any conclusions about a state responsibility. If you do that now, you'll put a political impression on this investigation, which will reduce the chances that those people will eventually go to trial. Mr Bontes and I have had this discussion and we disagree. So I am against his suggestion, but I agree with his anger about continuing to cast doubt on the quality of the research. I have that anger, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u109	I understand the comment about the political fingerprint, but that has already happened. What do the Russians say? They say that JIT is politically colored because Ukraine is in it. So from everything that the research team comes up with, they'll say it's politically coloured, because Ukraine's in there. So they won't accept anything from what comes from that angle. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u110	I understand what Mr Bontes is saying. Our reaction to this is that Ukraine is obviously in this because that terrible plane disaster has occurred on Ukrainian territory, which gives Ukraine jurisdiction. Ukraine then handed it over to the Netherlands, for both the investigation and the Public Prosecutor's Department, i.e. the prosecution. Of course, we are doing this in cooperation with other countries that have been very badly affected, such as Australia, Malaysia and Belgium, which have all declared themselves willing to be part of the Joint Investigation Team, but also with Ukraine itself. Whatever form of persecution you choose, you will always have to deal with Ukraine, either legally or technically because of the persecution. I have already given this answer to a question from Mr Omtzigt. It is therefore inevitable that Ukraine is involved in this. We have also explained that reason to the Russians.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u111	There will be another debate on the disaster with the MH17, so finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u112	Almost 200 Dutch were killed in this terrible assassination. That is why I am asking the Prime Minister: is he prepared to present this increase in sanctions at the European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u113	I believe that this instrument is counterproductive and that is why I will not do so. I have only one goal: to bring the perpetrators to justice so that they can be convicted. I am convinced that Mr Bontes' suggestion will take that goal further, and that is why I will not do so. But I fully agree with the anger in the rest of his speech about the Russians who continue to cause confusion about the investigation, continue to disavow the investigation and put it in an evil light; an investigation that has now come out two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u114	I'm gonna keep going on about the MH17. The Netherlands will need its European partners in the future. Is the Prime Minister prepared to arrange this at this or another summit, possibly for an explanation at dinner or for a background discussion? The Netherlands simply needs its partners at a later stage in order to put pressure on Russia. I understand the Prime Minister's considerations on sanctions, but this process must now be started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u115	I intend to update the partners in Europe next week on the intermediate position, i.e. the intermediate or provisional results presented by the Joint Investigation Team, and on the subsequent steps taken by the Netherlands. As planned, I'm gonna do it next Thursday or Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u116	That's good to know. I understand that no further steps are being taken at the moment. Is the Prime Minister himself prepared to discuss further with Parliament on the MH17 during the debate that we will have after the recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u117	That's where the trade ministers come in. Then I come to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u118	This is gonna be real quick. The PvdA and the VVD have requested a debate with only Minister Koenders and Minister Van der Steur, but it is the Prime Minister who will have to gather international support to get a proper trial of the perpetrators and put pressure on other countries to cooperate. That will not be up to the trade ministers. The Chamber will hold a second debate on the MH17. I would very much appreciate it if the Prime Minister himself would be present and not leave that to the trade ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u119	I do not want to settle work on the presence of trade ministers or the Prime Minister in a debate. That was discussed in the regulation. If you would like to make a request regarding the Prime Minister's presence, you can do so with the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u120	That request has been made. That is why I am making the request here directly to the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, this is one of the main issues of his cabinet policy. I therefore ask him to be present at the debate so that the debate can take place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u121	I was present at the debate following the investigation of the Security Research Council. I will also be present at the debate after the investigation by the Public Prosecutor. This is an intermediate position. The trade ministers will be present at this debate. Mr Omtzigt can be assured that I am dealing daily with all the major issues in the cabinet, whether or not I am present in the debates. The same applies to this issue. Then I come to the questions about Turkey. I thank Mr Voordewind for the recommendations. They've been here before. We will also continue to raise these issues, for example during general discussions on the General Affairs Council (RAZ) and the Justice and Home Affairs Council (JHA Council). Mr Voordewind rightly spoke about the importance of access to reception camps. That is a subject which the Foreign Minister is particularly concerned about, and I think that is right. As regards the use of the funds for Turkey, we have always said that expenditure through the Turkish authorities can only be made for very specific projects. An example of this is the giving of vouchers to Syrians so that they themselves can provide for their livelihood with a little pocket money. This remains our position. The majority will therefore really have to be spent in the most independent way possible, but sometimes it is inevitable to work through the Turkish authorities in very specific projects. This is done through civil society. In the meantime, quite a part of the amount has been committed. Education is an important focus. I know that Mr Voordewind thinks this is important too. Mr Verhoeven also asked questions about Turkey. It is really important to support the Commission in its role as a neutral, rigorous regulator. It is important that that role as referee is fully guarded. The role of our Vice-President, Frans Timmermans, is also important. We really must avoid this becoming a political game between the Member States. That is why the Commission's rigorous, neutral role is so important. This was also emphasised by the spokesmen of, among others, PvdA and VVD. I would like to express my thanks for the list. We will, of course, study them carefully. Mr Omtzigt asked questions about the rule of law. Like the judges, we are seriously concerned about the rule of law in Turkey. It is understandable that Turkey should take action against coupants, but that should never be a reason to abandon the principles of the rule of law and democracy. That is what we have always said. As far as we are concerned, the state of emergency is as short as possible and there are fundamental rights which are simply not subject to exceptions during the state of emergency. In order for Turkey to recover rapidly after the failed coup attempt, it is important that the rule of law be restored as soon as possible. The independence of justice is, of course, an essential part of this. That is what our contacts with Turkey are about. I have another point. The Christian Union asked me about Turkey as a safe third country. The assessment of whether a third country is safe for an asylum applicant is made by the Netherlands on an individual basis each time. We do not have a list of safe third countries, we assess that on an individual basis. For Greece, asylum applications are declared inadmissible because Turkey is a safe third country for the applications in question. This is in the relationship between Greece and Turkey and the agreements made between the European Union and Turkey in March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u122	I'll see if you've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u123	As far as Turkey is concerned, I have a few other questions about migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u124	I shall now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you for the brief response of the Prime Minister. He says he's going to study it. I sense that the PvdA and the VVD still want to look closely at the contents of the list. We fully agree on the role of the referee: it must be independent. I have mentioned in my speech a number of concrete examples of three criteria in which the way of ticking has at least been debatable. Of course, the Prime Minister heard the same thing. I wonder whether, after half an hour of suspension, he will be able to react in substance to the way in which the Commission has done so, regardless of the independent referee role.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u126	I really need to be very careful about that. It is the task of the European Commission to determine whether Turkey meets the benchmarks; we look at them marginally. If you go into the details, you run a risk. Take, for example, the issue of the analysis capacity of DGMM, the Directorate General Migration Management. We work intensively together to strengthen capacity. Now DGMM can real-time indicate how many people enter and leave and have taken steps towards Iraq to further strengthen it. The Commission now states in the benchmark assessment that analytical capacity needs to be further developed. Let me mention the example of the biometric passport, one of the last seven criteria in my mind. If there's a tick in there, it doesn't mean that all Turks have biometric passports. It means that Turkey is able to spend those things. That goes with 100,000 a month, which takes 70 years for all Turks to have biometric passports. If there's a tick on it, it doesn't mean it happened. The same applies to a number of comments made on the ID card, which, moreover, does not replace the biometric passport. You are going into the details with this and we need to avoid doing so in a way that will then undermine the referee. Then we come to the debate that Mr Verhoeven had with his colleagues in the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u127	Yeah, but still. We have been discussing this issue as a Chamber for months. Each time we have said and the Prime Minister has confirmed: we are not going to negotiate. A motion has been tabled on this subject, and Mr Koenders has always stressed it. If all of us, the cabinet and almost all of the political groups in this Chamber agree to that statement, then it would be very strange for us to find out in detail that there is a strong suspicion that there is a blackmail going on. It is therefore right to discuss the substance of the matter and not simply to say that we must respect the Commission as an arbitrator. I find that a strange approach by a Prime Minister who is a member of a party who constantly says that national parliaments are so important for research and control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u128	Now let me take an example from the list of D66 to show you how complicated it is. D66 says they shouldn't have said they meet the ID cards. We agree that the biometric passport falls under the seven criteria that still have to be met, but it says that it complies with the ID card; D66 states that it does not. If you then dive in, it appears that all identity papers are checked against the solid Turkish basic administration, that the Commission states that Turkey has started issuing secure ID documents and that the Commission says that it will take some time before all Turks have such a document. This is not necessary in order to be able to travel to the EU, because we need the biometric passport, which is still open. So what the Commission then finds, in fact similar to that biometric passport, is that Turkey can now issue that ID card, that it is also doing so, but not all Turks have that document. But you don't have to. According to this benchmark, at least the system must be in order. The same applies immediately to the biometric passport. Not all Turks need it to give a visa freedom, but you can only travel visa-free when you have such a biometric passport. That shows that if you go into that level of detail and start to cast doubt on it, you will undermine the Commission's work. I really think we should be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u129	I would like to leave the words "doubt-sowing" on behalf of the Prime Minister. I have simply looked at the 72 criteria and at the Commission's text on the method of ticking. But let me go along with the Prime Minister's example of the ID card. It says literally that the process for ID cards with which counterfeiting is much less easy than it is now, was completed in 2018. I am just talking about this criterion, but there are 19 criteria that have been checked out in a similar way. I find it strange that if something can only be completed in 2018, you will already check it out. I find it strange that the Prime Minister concludes that we are going very deeply into the details and that then it is all very complicated. I think it's pretty simple. There's a criterion. That has a certain name and a certain content. That content is not satisfied, but it is ticked off and the Prime Minister likes it. That's weird! That's weird! Then the Prime Minister must say: I find that strange too; I am going to look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u130	Then Mr Verhoeven must also tell the whole story. He did not mention that, in addition to this work, the Commission also had the monitoring mechanism. If the Commission says that it is satisfied because all the necessary measures have been taken in this respect, then there is the monitoring mechanism to see if it is. If, in practice, it were found that important elements were not complied with, visa-free travel would cease again. In addition, there is of course the hand brake that is coming. It is now in the European Parliament. It is really more nuanced in that respect than Mr Verhoeven just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u131	I'd like to continue at the same point. The hottest issue with these criteria is, of course, the adaptation of anti-terrorism legislation. Yet this week, elected HDP politicians have been arrested on the basis of this anti-terrorism legislation. So they're taking advantage of that. It is right that Europe should make this a major point. This affects human rights and freedoms. The question is whether, when the progress report is published in December, we will not be faced with the green light from Europe that all the criteria will be met, which means that we will still be caught by visa liberalisation. Does the Prime Minister want to rule out that route being followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u132	We are always on the compass that we have established as Chamber and Cabinet, namely that Turkey must meet all benchmarks before visa-free travel can occur. I have heard many first-term speakers repeat this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u133	This means, in concrete terms, that it cannot be the case that we will be faced with the green light for visa liberalisation before the forthcoming progress report in December. I am at least explaining the Prime Minister's words and asking him to respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u134	No, that's just something we'll, of course, discuss with Parliament again first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u135	I will come back to the Turkey deal and the refugees. I have identified a number of concerns in my report. I can imagine that the Prime Minister cannot go into this in detail now, but I would like a written response. There are a number of elements that are also linked to visa-free travel. In this way, de facto compliance with the Refugee Convention must be ensured. We have also adopted a motion for a resolution on this subject. One of the elements of the Refugee Convention is that no distinction should be made between refugees. It'll happen now. Turkey distinguishes between Syrian refugees and non-Syrian refugees. They have different status. No guidance is given at the shelter, except in the refugee camps. However, there is only 10% in a refugee camp. The rest wander through the cities and through the land. These are elements that I have included in my report. Can the Prime Minister give an initial response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u136	On the first point, all this is addressed in the agreements with Turkey in March. On the second point, the community care system is also part of the Turkish Refugees Facility. So one does not focus exclusively on one thing, it goes wider. That's the way we agreed. For example, education. As I said, the points raised by the Christian Union relate to relevant issues, which are therefore still in the discussions and are also commented on by the Minister for Foreign Affairs where necessary. I find it a little complicated, I say honestly, to come up with an extensive response from the cabinet to a piece of one political party. However, I would like to say that we will always refer to the Christian Union when these issues are raised. However, we will not send a separate letter in response to the whole of the Christian Union, which will then be the subject of another debate. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u137	The Prime Minister does not have to respond, but I would appreciate it if the Foreign Minister did. It is quite common, if a party is investigating and has been on the spot, to respond to this, precisely because it is a very important element of the cabinet, namely the Turkey deal. In addition, a motion has previously been adopted in the Chamber which states that Turkey must de facto comply with the Refugee Convention. That's where I put the measuring bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u138	I just said all these themes keep coming back. There are no things in that list that we are not discussing here. All these things are on the agenda. I can imagine that every time such a matter is raised, Mr Voordewind will make his point. I will ask the Foreign Minister to take note of the document of the Christian Union. His officials are now partly present to support me. So that comes back, at all the relevant moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u139	Then I assume that this will also be discussed with the Foreign Minister and that I will get a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u140	No, there's no response from the cabinet to the whole plan. We're not gonna do that. When these issues are discussed, we will answer the questions raised with reference to the Christian Union's plan. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u141	I asked a specific question about the 72 conditions. In the previous progress report of 15 June last year, which was for the coup and subsequent purifications, 65 of the 72 conditions were approved. However, there are reasonable reasons to re-check some of these conditions, which were supported by a green check mark, when preparing the next progress report. In this context, I should like to mention condition 22............................................................................................................................................................................................ We have seen that Dutch citizens no longer get visas for Turkey. Will the Prime Minister urge the Commission not only to check the seven outstanding points but all relevant points when preparing the next progress report?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u142	It already is. The Commission may, even if points have been greened earlier and as long as not all 72 points are green, make them red again. We can do that. I would add two more things. If all 72 points were met and visa-free travel were to occur at any time, we would still have the Commission's monitoring mechanism. In addition, in the context of the debate on the wider issue of visa-free travel, which also has to do with visa-free travel from Ukraine and Georgia, the EU has decided to introduce a hand brake procedure. It is currently before the European Parliament for its approval. So this point is secured in three ways. The Commission should first conclude that visa-free travel is possible. In addition, the Commission can put existing green ticks back on red. Furthermore, we have two safety nets as visa-free travel will be introduced at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr Verhoeven, you have spoken on this point a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u144	Yeah, this is my main point today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u145	Everything is the main point; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u146	No, this is my main point and I didn't interrupt much today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u147	You also have a second term. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u148	I will put an undetailed main question to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u149	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u150	... he may or may not respond to it in detail to his own premises. This subject is under pressure. Parliaments are constantly questioning whether things are going well. Then I find it strange that the Prime Minister says: okay, there may have been a number of wrongly checked criteria, but we can always monitor a bit and afterwards there is always a hand brake. That's a strange approach, isn't it? It would be better to be very strict on the criteria in advance, rather than to say that we can always correct them afterwards. This is a question of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u151	There is a suggestion underneath which I do not share, namely that we would now say: well, let it happen, because after that we can still check. That is what is in Mr Verhoeven's question, but it is not. The Commission will assess the 72 criteria very closely. That's what we'll be looking at together. However, it is up to the Commission as a referee to give its opinion on this matter. However, should it prove in future that the country does not comply with any of the criteria, then there are two safety nets that we can fall back on. So that does not replace a rigorous assessment in advance. I understand that Mr Verhoeven is stressed about that point, but I can completely remove that stress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u152	If completing your parliamentary task of controlling the government leads to stress, then I'll just have to have a little stress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u153	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u154	I take my job seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u155	That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u156	But I am concerned that my research has shown that 19 out of 65 already checked criteria have been mischecked. That is my main point of content. I have supported this by showing what the Commission has done in relation to reality in Turkey. This concerns the identification of criteria such as the identification of migratory flows, the introduction of biometric passports and so on. So there can be reasonable doubt. That is why I find it strange that the Prime Minister says: there is no reasonable doubt; we are doing a tight check. Surely there is no tight check when 19 out of 65 criteria have been checked out in a very soft way? That's not tight control, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u157	I have already commented on a number of these issues, such as the comments on the ticked-off issue of a Directorate-General for Migration and the security associated with it. So there is a lot to say about it. So I do not agree with the list of D66 in advance. In addition, the very detailed debate on each of the criteria, however you turn it or turn it, undermines the fact that we have one referee. That referee is the European Commission. We have to sail on that compass.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u158	I'm asking you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u159	There are still a few general questions. They can be answered briefly. I've dealt with all the bigger themes now. Oh, no, there's one more big theme: CETA. I find it a little complicated to answer all those questions about CETA now, because at the moment the AO is going on about this. My question is whether I do not have to answer those questions. Otherwise, we're going to answer questions on the same subject in two places in one building, when it's really about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u160	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u161	By "they," I mean the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The VVD has asked a question about EFSI. There's gonna be multiple evaluations. The Commission has carried out its own evaluation of the proposal to extend EFSI. The European Investment Bank also carried out an evaluation at the beginning of October. It is now really important for the Netherlands and other countries to have an independent evaluation before a decision on renewal is taken. The Commission has informed us that this evaluation will be published in November. We will have all these evaluations taken into account in the decision-making process. In the short term, the BNC sheet on the EFSI renewal proposal will be sent to the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt is aware of the government's position on genocide and ISIS. The question of the legal nature of genocide is reserved for the courts; that is how it works in the Netherlands. That is why the Netherlands is also committed to investigating ISIS's misdeeds in an independent manner. That's why we also provide training for parties collecting evidence of international crime. We support the Syrian Justice and Accountability Centre for future accountability for crimes by the Assad regime, ISIS and other groups. Our diplomatic, humanitarian and military commitment is fully in line with the obligation in the Genocide Convention to prevent genocide. As soon as the prosecution would decide to prosecute international crimes on the basis of the Dutch law, this concerns both Dutch suspects and non-Dutch suspects who are on Dutch territory. In addition, the cabinet is committed to refer Syria's situation to the International Criminal Court, so that all crimes of all warring parties can be investigated by the Court. One of the blessings of having this job for a long time is that many discussions come back. I like that very much. There is certainly a lot of discussion on an extremely important issue such as ISIS and genocide. But again, at the heart of the matter, in the Netherlands it is the judge who decides on this and not politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u162	I suggest that you answer all the questions before Members can make any interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u163	That's a good proposal, Mr. Chairman. I come to Hungary and Poland. I would point out that the Foreign Minister has just made a trip to both countries. The Netherlands has also taken the lead in this area in recent years. This resulted, for example, in the Commission's rule of law mechanism, as well as in the regular discussion of the rule of law in the General Affairs Council. We therefore support the Commission's approach towards Poland. We are participating in this dialogue, which is not aimed at exclusion. That is why Minister Koenders of Foreign Affairs was there last year. In the end, the referendum in Hungary was not valid, because the turnout was not high enough. So we don't have to talk about that anymore. Mrs Maij asked about the revision of the Detachment Directive. To this end, our commitment is to revise it. Firstly, the Minister for Social Affairs is working hard on this, but I am also working hard on it. The Court is, of course, aware of the contradictions of the Member States in this respect. The committee proposal is currently being discussed at technical level. As soon as there are developments, we will inform the Chamber. We expect the matter to be dealt with politically during the Slovak Presidency. I think that will happen in November or December. We therefore hope to be able to report progress. Mr Mulder of the VVD asked what the cabinet would do with regard to the MES, the market economic status of China. The Commission has not yet put forward a proposal for this. We expect that on November 9th. This will then be discussed in the Trade Council on 11 November. Of course, the Chamber will be involved. I believe that I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u164	I'm gonna see how many times we've been interrupted, because we've made agreements about that. Otherwise, all kinds of questions will be repeated and we also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u165	Perhaps I had not made my question on ISIS clear, but it was not about a legal definition. He talked about the need to prosecute perpetrators, whether they are genocide or crimes against humanity. I am glad that the Prime Minister says: whatever it is, we want it to come before the International Criminal Court. To bring it before the International Criminal Court, you will either have to bring it to the UN Security Council or you will have to convince the prosecutor in The Hague that he has jurisdiction to prosecute, for example, foreign fighters. This can be done very well at EU level. My question is whether the Prime Minister is prepared to discuss this issue in an open discussion on how to work together. I asked President Hollande myself yesterday and he said he wanted to. Other countries want this, too. It can be done now or at the next European summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u166	May I suggest that I return to that point in the annotated agenda of the December summit? I now understand Mr Omtzig's more specific question. That is indeed a special feature of our earlier discussions. So there's a development in it. It may be useful. I don't know about that right now. Perhaps I can promise to include that in the annotated agenda of the next European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u167	I thank the Prime Minister for coming back to me. It would help if that annotated agenda were to be available in good time or if the Prime Minister were to write about it in advance, so that we know what we could do. This is not an extra letter, but we have some time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u168	Certainly, then it will come back to the debate when it comes to preparing for the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u169	I had asked the Prime Minister a question about the constitutional developments in Hungary. I have told him that there is a deterioration in the rule of law and human rights. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response. In addition, I would like to ask whether he agrees with the Group of the Party of European Socialists that the rule of law mechanism, which is reviewed periodically, should ultimately lead to further conditions for a contribution from European funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u170	The latter is a very sensitive debate in Europe. I think that's a step too far. I do agree with Mr Van Bommel that there is every reason to be concerned about developments in Hungary. But what I find so beautiful is that the Netherlands has achieved that not all Member States are going to determine this in detail individually, but that we are collectively looking at it through the rule of law mechanism and its periodic discussion in the RAZ. I would like to maintain that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u171	Of course, there will first be a report, an assessment. But that only works effectively if you end up with a stick behind the door. In the case of Hungary, we can see that there has been a decline in fundamental rights for a number of years now. This Prime Minister always says 'I agree with him that the European Union should also be a community of values'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u172	That wasn't a question. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u173	I support Mr Omtzig's point on genocide. I had asked a question in my first term which is also important for my second term. That question was about the position of England when it comes to the payments of Palestinian terrorists in Israeli prisons. Because English nationals, and it's also happened to Dutch nationals...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u174	I am, of course, preparing this debate, but this has nothing to do with next week's European Council. I get the point. When I listen to it that way, it sounds very relevant, but I'm not prepared for that right now. That seems to me to be a real question for the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u175	Then Mr Voordewind will know who to put this question to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u176	The Prime Minister will meet his colleague at the euro summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u177	I also call them every day, all of them, so to speak, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u178	This is an important point, namely the financing of terrorism. That can be discussed by the Prime Minister in his capacity with his colleague in England.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u179	I can discuss anything with anyone, but I am preparing for a debate on next week's European Council with four or five topics. This is about a very specific point. My suggestion is to put this question to the Foreign Minister. Let me turn to Mr Voordewind: If I can help by raising the issue with my British colleague, I shall do so immediately................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have received information on it, but I do not think it is sufficient to give it to Mr Voordewind in response. I think it would be better if the Foreign Minister did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u180	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We shall now proceed to the second term. I call Mr Van Bommel. Speaking time is 2 minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u181	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has nothing to do with the Brexit and the position of the United Kingdom. I understand that from the negotiating position of the Netherlands, but can I count on the Netherlands at least to work on developing scenarios that could be most beneficial to the Netherlands? With regard to the Ukraine referendum, the Prime Minister has made it clear that he will return to the Chamber before 1 November. We're gonna see. With regard to the Ukraine agreement, concluded in Minsk, it seems that the agreement is holding the parties hostage. Therefore, more external pressure is needed to ensure that the security agreements, a cease-fire, are at least worked out. That's where the priority is. For Turkey, there is a problem. We will also have to assess the work of the referee. Perhaps I should go so far as to say that the referee, the European Commission, also has a self-interest in judging. We also assess the progress reports on new entrants and other issues. We will therefore also have to assess the Commission's work. I would like to endorse the D66 proposal in order to look into the difference of opinion on the 19 criteria mentioned. I have signed a motion to that effect. Then Poland and Hungary. In the end, the debate must be held on this subject. By means of a negative assessment of the state of law in countries such as Poland and Hungary, when there is no turning point, you should be able to address those countries through a mechanism such as the European funds. Pressure helps. We're tough on new entrants. We look at Turkey with a very strict eye, but let us also look at ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. On the issue of the refugee treaty, the Turkey deal, as it is called, I would like to ask him about the possibility of a progress report, especially on the treatment of Syrian refugees in Turkey itself, regardless of the return of refugees from Greece to Turkey. Who monitors the implementation of the agreements around the Turkey deal on compliance with the refugee treaty? I support Mr Verhoeven in what he said about laying the measuring bar next to those 72 criteria. In any case, one criterion is not met. I have also looked at the question of the other 19 criteria. I've come across promises. I see that there is a reference to the future. Things are being set in motion, but that is not yet the implementation of the concrete measures laid down in those 72 conditions. That is why I have co-signed Mr Verhoeven's motion on this point. I hope he gets the support of the Chamber. I find it disappointing that when I talk about the genocide of the Christians and the Jezidis in northern Iraq, the answer remains constant that the cabinet does not want to make a ruling about it. This is happening despite the fact that we have spoken before in the Chamber about other genocides. I refer to Srebrenica and Rwanda in this context. I would suggest to the Prime Minister that he at least ask the international advisor to give an opinion on the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u183	Mr. Chairman. The motion of D66 on Ukraine is dated on a deadline of 1 November. We'll wait and see. I listened carefully to what the Prime Minister said about the sanctions. He says: focus on unity and effectiveness, and don't come up with tough statements. I've been thinking about that, and I'm still coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Russia is responsible for many civilian victims and war crimes in Syria by bombing hospitals, schools, etc.;]] [[Considering that Russia in the UN Security Council recently vetoed a resolution calling for the cessation of bombing of Aleppo in Syria and a ceasefire to enable humanitarian aid;]] [[Calls on the Government, at the European Council on 20 and 21 October 2016, to apply additional sanctions on behalf of the European Union to Russia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u184	Then, of course, my point of visa liberalisation. All of a sudden, we're all talking about a referee and he needs to be able to do his job. I fully agree with that. He needs to be able to do his job independently. But the fact is that we are now suddenly talking about monitoring systems and emergency brakes for retrospect, when we have always said: we are not going to negotiate with the 72 criteria. There are at least nineteen criteria about which D66 says: if you look at how they have been checked out and how Turkey has implemented them, you will see that there is quite a bit of light in between. I can repeat a number of examples, but I will not. On this point, I think the Commission should simply assess all 72 criteria harshly, sharply and neutrally. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber has repeatedly called for the visa liberalisation criteria for Turkey not to be negotiated;]] [[whereas at present the European Commission has identified some of the criteria for visa-free travel as premature or unjustifiedly met;]] [[calls on the government, at the European Summit, to use a rigorous and neutral (re-) assessment by the European Commission of all 72 visa liberalisation criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Van Bommel and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that on 10 October 2016 the Government, together with members of a part of the opposition, held secret consultations on the outcome of the referendum on the Association Agreement with Ukraine;]] [[Whereas it is very undesirable that it should keep the content of these talks secret from the other part of the opposition and the Dutch population;]] [[calls on the Government to send the Chamber a comprehensive report on what has been discussed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that economic sanctions against Russia are on the agenda of the European Summit of 20 and 21 October 2016;]] [[Considering that Russia continues to raise serious doubts about the professionalism and independence of the criminal investigation into the attack on the MH17 carried out by the Joint Investigation Team (JIT);]] [[calls on the government, at the European Summit, to step up economic sanctions against Russia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1158]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the first-term response. There are a few points I would like to highlight and give to the Prime Minister. The first is the Brexit. The Prime Minister spoke about the internal market and lusts and burdens, as I myself did in my first term. I would like to make it clear to the Prime Minister that it is really important for the PvdA to have all the rules applicable to the internal market, even after the United Kingdom has left. I am referring to all the old rules and all the new rules, including those on equal pay for equal work in the same place, and I am referring to agreements on tax avoidance if we do so in the future. It is good to hear that in December there will be at least a substantive discussion on progress on the Detachment Directive and its adaptation. We're looking forward to that. I would also like to inform the Prime Minister that, when the Bratislava process continues, the Prime Minister indicated that the internal market, external borders, migration and the fight against terrorism are issues that are important in this regard. I would like to underline Mr Van Bommel's plea on the rule of law. We think it is extremely important that this dialogue on the rule of law, which has also been set up by the Netherlands, should not be shunned again, especially when we hear this strange term 'flexible solidarity' from a number of Member States. 'Flexible solidarity', 'legal state' or 'liberal democracy'... This week I even heard the last term when it was about Hungary. Surely we should not want that within the European Union? Finally, I come to the Migration Compact. The Prime Minister spoke briefly about this. I would also like to inform him, on behalf of the PvdA, that, in addition to the commitment to identifying the cause of migration, democracy and human rights must be used. They are really part of that: not only close borders, but also ensure that people get better there and that human rights are guaranteed throughout the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u187	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I would like to make a few comments on four points. The first point concerns the referendum. At dinner, of course, it's not a non-committal conversation. If the Prime Minister is going to tell the Chamber before 1 November whether he is coming up with a repeal law or a law ratifying the signature, he will make a final proposal to his colleagues. I ask him again what exactly this proposal looks like or what he has in mind. Then I also know what, for example, my colleagues from the VVD and the Labour Party consider acceptable. As far as the MH17 is concerned, it is a good thing that the Prime Minister makes this internationally negotiable and that he speaks with President Poroshenko when the occasion arises, even at a funeral. It is good that he has this in mind all the time when he talks to Heads of State or Government. It is precisely because the next phase of the MH17 concerns international cooperation in that persecution that the CDA strongly calls on the Prime Minister to be present in the debate on that persecution. He doesn't need to be present at the debate on Professor Maat. That wasn't about the MH17, but that was about Minister Van der Steur. This is about the prime minister's core task, about his actions with the leaders of the other countries. Thank you for the commitment to ensure that all 72 criteria of the visa will be re-evaluated if this is necessary for the next reporting. I have tabled a motion on this, but this commitment is satisfactory. As far as ISIS is concerned, it is a good thing that this item will be on the agenda next time. Will the Prime Minister see if the protocol on foreign fighters of the Council of Europe can be signed and ratified by all, so that these people can be prosecuted? And does he want to explore how to work with countries to bring these horrible crimes that are or are not genocide? We can discuss that before the International Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u188	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr. Chairman. No questions were asked, but a few comments were made. I have taken note of that. I would therefore like to respond immediately to the motions, but only after I want to meet Mr Omtzig a little further on one point and that concerns his question about ISIS and genocide. I said that we would include that in the annotated agenda of the European Council. However, it can be done sooner, because we can take that into account in the report of the Foreign Affairs Council next Monday. I will ask the Foreign Minister to address this issue in that report from the Foreign Affairs Council next Monday. That is then rather than in the annotated agenda of December. Then there's the motions. The Verhoeven/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 1156 is about sanctions against Russia. I told you, that's not effective. So I'm really dissuading this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u190	Before you go any further, Mr Omtzig has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u191	Thank you for that commitment, but that must include a look at how this can be put on the agenda of the next European Council and with what commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u192	Not in the European Council. I think we can really do it in the Foreign Affairs Council. I would like to say that you will be able to put further questions on this point, and that it will be included in each of the reports of the Foreign Affairs Council. However, I am not going to give any guarantees that this will be on the agenda of the European Council. That's way out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u193	I am concerned that it is happening, and I do not care what advice and mechanism it is taking. As long as a look is given at how the path to the trial of the people who may have committed genocide, and in my view probably genocide, is going to run. I asked a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u194	Mr Omtzigt, we are not going to have the discussion again. This is a second term. You may ask a short question and you may ask a question that has not been answered, but you must not repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u195	In his response, Mr Omtzigt takes on board a number of elements which I shall leave for a moment. I admit that we are bringing forward the issue of genocide ISIS, which I said would be reflected in the annotated December European Council agenda, to the Foreign Affairs Council. I take note of what Mr Omtzigt has to say about it. We note that, but I cannot say that I agree with all those elements. First, I want to see exactly what's going to end up in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u196	I understand that, but it's about the trials. My second question was whether the Prime Minister is prepared to reconsider whether he wants to be in the MH17 debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u197	I gave the answer to that question in the first term. The one in the Verhoeven/Sjoerdsma motion in part No. As I said, 1156 is not on the agenda. I really don't think it's effective either. I therefore continue to refer to the view I expressed in the first term. As regards the Verhoeven c.s. motion, in piece No. 1157 I have another proposal. I advise against this motion for all kinds of reasons. The European summit is not suitable for this, because it is not at all in the picture, it is about the European Commission. Moreover, the second recital is not correct. However, I think I have something to move Mr Verhoeven to withdraw his motion. I would like to make a commitment, namely that the Netherlands will understand itself with the Commission to ensure that the next report also addresses the question of whether they still meet the benchmarks already met. I think that is exactly what Mr Verhoeven wants to achieve with this motion. We stay completely away from rewriting motions and so on. I am therefore making a commitment here and I believe that the motion has become superfluous. If the motion is put to the vote, I advise her that the place is not the right one and the second recital is incorrect. But let's not fight that battle. My suggestion is that Mr Verhoeven weighs on hand, and on the tongue my suggestion is that the Netherlands understands with the Commission to ensure that the next report also addresses the already met benchmarks as to whether they still meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u198	Mr Verhoeven, a brief comment on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u199	It would certainly not occur to me to make my point again. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for at least making an effort to show, through a commitment, that he takes this point seriously; I can say that. I'm gonna think about his offer. I've got until Tuesday to decide if I'm going to enforce the motion. I do not do that quickly, as Mrs Maij would say. So thank you for the commitment. I am going to think about this very carefully, because we seem to have the same objective, namely that all 72 criteria remain objective and independent. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u200	We are thinking about the votes, because I think they will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u201	Next week, I think the room's on vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u202	Well, that's not a vacation, is it? It's recess. Then we'll go to work, and then we'll get to work in the country. Contact with the voter!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u203	Sure, we're gonna see you everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u204	And we are also going to work in Finland and Norway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u205	Thank you for the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u206	I will make sure that I know before the first vote whether I withdraw the motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u207	That's good. At least before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u208	With reference to the debate, I would advise against the Bones motion on item No. 1158. With the Bontes motion in part No. 1159 the government is invited to commit itself to increasing economic sanctions. In this context, too, I would refer to my reaction to the motion on item No. 1156 and to the debate. So I also advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-3.u209	I thank the Prime Minister.
