ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, who would be present at this debate, has stated that he has been prevented for personal reasons in the family sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u2	Madam President. Today we are discussing the so-called tax package 2017, as many as six legislative proposals. It has been hard worked by the officials, for which praise has been given. And yet the fiscal homework of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet in the political sense is far from complete. As far as taxes are concerned, this cabinet has not been reformed by far. In fact, after the elections, a next cabinet, of whatever composition, will have to repair a lot. Before going into the substance of the tax package, I would first like to say something about the importance of the revenue side of the national budget and the international fiscal policy of the Netherlands. The estimated income for the Empire in 2017 is 263 billion, consisting of 161 billion in tax revenues, 41 billion in social security contributions and 59 billion in employee insurance contributions. Gas benefits are estimated at over 2 billion. Let us concentrate on tax revenues. Exactly half of them consist of indirect taxes and the other half are direct taxes, 80.7 billion versus 80.2 billion. In indirect taxes, turnover tax is highest: 47.8 billion. In direct taxation, wages and income tax account for 56.1 billion. For decades we have seen a shift in the budgetary importance of direct taxation towards indirect taxation. This occurs not only in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of the European Union. With 18.5 billion in revenue, corporate tax accounts for over 11% of total pure tax revenue. In the Lower House and the European Parliament, however, disproportionate attention is paid to the tax on profits. In my opinion, it should be income tax and turnover tax. According to Professor Robert Murphy, for example, there would be a huge shortage of VAT revenue in the European Union. This is partly due to a lack of data and partly because tax administrations do not give priority to this. Can the Secretary of State indicate the approximate amount of unpaid VAT in the Netherlands? Is it true that around 10% of the tax revenues currently estimated would be VAT? Can the government indicate which part of tax evasion is and which part of tax avoidance? Is this a government priority? Has the European Commission recently made calculations on the so-called VAT hole? In recent years we have seen a constant flow of proposals from Brussels in the field of taxation. These are partly reflected in draft directives, and they consist partly of policy ideas. The CDA Group supports the government's en- en-policy on international fiscal policy. The Netherlands must be active in adapting the rules agreed internationally at OECD level. This is a global project, Base Erosion Profit Shifting (BEPS), which aims to address situations of tax avoidance by multinationals. To this end, 15 action points have been agreed. These are three themes: coherence, substance and transparency. The Netherlands is, rightly, proactively cooperating in this. At the same time, and so is the other, the Netherlands must keep a close eye on its interests as a location for foreign investors, but also for our own Dutch companies. In this sense, it has been a special year for the Netherlands. During the first six months of the year, the Netherlands was President of the European Union. During that presidency, the Netherlands has performed a considerable task. First agreement was reached in mid-March on the Country-by-Country reporting Directive, a translation of one of the actions contained in the OECD BEPS package. Moreover, the Netherlands had already introduced this scheme on 1 January this year. Even more important was the political agreement at the end of June on the Anti-Tax Prevention Directive (ATAD). That is worth a compliment to the Dutch rulers of Finance. How surprised is the European Commission to have published four draft directives after the summer. If it is up to the CDA Group, this Chamber is going to draw a 'yellow card' on three of the four proposals next week, i.e. to make a so-called subsidiarity reservation. What's the case? Contrary to the initiatives taken in the first half of the year, the link with the OECD, the so-called BEPS package, is far from complete. The European Commission thinks it can make use of the momentum by putting forward proposals that go far beyond the OECD package. Moreover, the position of the smaller countries such as the Netherlands is disadvantaged. The Netherlands can never agree to Brussels' plans to prescribe a tax profit system that is significantly worse than the current Dutch concept of profit and certainly not as a large proportion of Dutch corporation tax should be paid to larger countries such as France and Italy which systematically do not have their budget in order. Does the government agree with the CDA Group on this point? Does the government also support the view that the highest rate of corporation tax in the Netherlands should go to 20% in order to keep the Netherlands competitive with countries such as Belgium, Ireland, the United Kingdom and Switzerland, in order to further and more concretely implement the other and the government's two-track policy? During this cabinet period, a leveling income policy was deliberately pursued. The enormous amount of tables.... thanks to Mr Van Rooijen.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are talking about incomes between roughly €50,000 and €75,000. We are talking about 'hardworking Netherlands', people who work for twenty years, such as the director at a secondary school, the police chief inspector, but also a head of purchasing or IT at a company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u3	I hear Mr van Rij say that, above all, the middle-incomes, which, as far as I am concerned, are high on the market, have had to pay more taxes. Now we have also asked a question when dealing with the Tax Plan. The answer to this is on page 29 in the note following the report. I do not know whether, after all the tables requested by Mr Van Rooijen, he has gotten to that, but those tables show that the effect of the policies of the Rutte II Cabinet is that the purchasing power of the low-income quarter households has improved by 0.9%, of the lower middle incomes by 1.25%, of the higher middle incomes, i.e. about the group I was talking about, by 2.9% and of the high-income by 1.9%. In view of these figures, which I assume are correct, I would ask Mr Van Rij how he comes up with his assertions that the higher or middle incomes in particular have had to turn in the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you for this question. I can do two things now. I can go into this in detail, but I can also ask if I can finish this part of my story. I am mainly based on figures 15 and 16 and tables 16 and 17 on pages 19 and 21 of the reply. If I may, I will finish my story first, because I will answer Mr Köhler's question. I quote the Secretary of State in reply to a question from Mr Van Rooijen: "If the maximum of the labour rebate and the general tax rebate had not been increased, then 10.5 billion could be used in tax cuts. This amount of extra space could be increased by a few billion if the income dependence on the tax rebates is partly reversed." This was particularly the case during this cabinet period. Many tax reductions have been made dependent on income. Those are also the graphs where things go down steeply in one go. I am referring to the general tax rebate, the labour rebate, the income-dependent general combination discount and the elderly discount. I quote the Secretary of State again: 'Out of those 10.5 billion dollars, let us limit ourselves to that. You could reduce the rate per tax base by 2.8%'. Moreover, you can also see from the graph that the people with incomes I am talking about in particular have contributed significantly to this shift towards lower incomes. I am not talking at all about all kinds of sneaking measures, which are actually at the heart of my criticism of the current system. We have a marginal pressure of 56%, but in some cases, for example, with an income of €32,000, so an income between €20,000 and €35,000, you have a marginal pressure of 140%. This means that you will return €0.40 if you earn one more euro. That is not transparent. It's become so opaque! You could have just said, for those high incomes, if you had just raised that rate to 56%, you would have just shown what you were doing. By turning all those buttons in that engine room, the system has actually reached its end. I must congratulate the leader of the PvdA, who, as the Minister for Social Affairs, has conducted a very similar left-wing policy here. Unfortunately, he's not here today. The CDA considers that the burden is not fairly distributed. Hardworking Netherlands and also older people over 50, working and non-working, have paid a considerable price for this. Thanks to one of the answers from the Secretary of State, we have now been given a very clear insight into the discussion on marginal pressure, which Mr Schalk and others in this House have talked about several times, both last year and this year in the General Political Reviews. You can see that even in this context it is no longer possible to explain that, for example, a mother who starts as a zzp'er and has a child under the age of 12, as well as a partner with a higher income, pays €36,000 67 in tax for a modal income, while the single person who also earns €36,000 but does not have children pays €8.099. The differences have become too large between the different income groups. In addition, some of these targeted tax instruments, such as the labour rebate and the general income-dependent combination discount, are failing their goal. In fact, some of these discounts are no longer cashed. People have too little income to have anything to do with this reduction, which is worth 3.7 billion, and that is precisely what it was intended for! Today, in this debate, we will undoubtedly return to the whole discussion of marginal pressure. We have been able to take note of Minister Asscher's letter, but I await the Secretary of State's analysis first. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that, no matter how the next cabinet is put together, we need to clean up the engine room with these instruments? In our income tax system, the principle of carrying capacity must be truly guiding again. Income dependency and ceilings of discounts should be reviewed. There must be fewer disks and fewer rates. Freedom of choice is important, so that every citizen is left with more than 50% of every euro he earns more. As far as we are concerned, it can and should be simpler, fairer and fairer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u5	Those are beautiful words. Who could be against that? I'll say something about it myself later. That goes in the direction of this necessary reform, but I do object to Mr Van Rij's sketch. He performs Minister Asscher and a number of others, but let us be honest: we have all been there. All our groups have participated in the discussions on tax rebates and on attempts to programme purchasing power towards justice in such a way that it would be convenient. Now there are some weird excrements. I'm gonna say something about that later. This morning I read in a morning's newspaper that Mr Van Rij is suddenly talking about water, but we have all been involved in this, including Mr Van Rij's group, in Balkenende IV and then in tax plans that have been approved. I'd be happy to include that in this assessment. Doesn't Mr Van Rij agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you for this question, Mr Backer. I am also very interested in your contribution. I think we might be a little closer to each other in the analysis than this question would indicate. I'm going back to the question, a fair question. The CDA Group voted against a tax plan once. That was at the beginning of this cabinet period. My analysis is also based in particular on the persistent and consistent questioning of the period 2012-2017, which Mr Van Rooijen has done. Last year in this house we were faced with the choice of voting in favour or not. Your group in the Lower House voted against and voted in favour in the Upper House, after some concessions. The CDA voted in favour in the Lower House and voted in favour in the Upper House. We felt that the 5 billion was the right beginning of, in our opinion, repairing the burden increase, not only for middle incomes but also for modal incomes. Now, however, we are faced with, as it were, the effect of the income dependence on these reductions. Well, then I haven't talked about the surcharges yet. On the one hand, therefore, we are faced with the fact that these discounts are simply no longer in line with their purpose, the problem of cashing out. On the other hand, they give very strange income effects. That is why we are saying that it is now really the time. It coincides with the end of this cabinet, so it is a good time to review it very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr Van Rij ended his speech by saying that it must be fairer, more to capacity and more just...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u8	I'm not finished, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u9	Apologies. Somehow I had that impression. But maybe I can ask my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u10	This was just the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u11	It was just the beginning: I thought it was so short and powerful. I shall go back to the beginning of Mr Van Rij's speech. This was about tax avoidance and the international position of the Netherlands in it. I am surprised that Mr Van Rij says that it has actually been enough; we have done enough. Recently, when we reviewed Oxfam Novib, we saw that the Netherlands is the third on the list of tax havens. I am surprised that the CDA is apparently not prepared to go further and to see if the way the Dutch fiscal environment is organised for multinationals is so fair. I would like a response from Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u12	I'd like to go into that. Obviously I have not been clear enough, at least not for Mrs Vos, but I have argued that we wholeheartedly support the cabinet's policy and policy. Tax avoidance has been agreed at OECD level. That's a hell of a performance. The art now is that these agreements are being transposed into law. I congratulated the rulers of finance for having taken this up vigorously under the Dutch Presidency: a level playing field within the EU. That is not the end of the package, by the way. Not at all. Much more needs to be done. I said there are 15 action points. I meant to say that I do not think it is right for the European Commission to use this moment to remove old plans, which were fired five years ago and have nothing to do with tax avoidance at all. It is a consolidated European corporate tax that it wants to rush through national parliaments just as quickly under the pretext of tax avoidance. Mrs Vos has also read the government's BNC sheet. That the government says that this is a step too far, I fully agree. And I call on Mrs Vos to do the same, because I know how she is in this debate. GroenLinks should not be fooled by this either. It's not all about tax avoidance. I have not yet read the Oxfam Novib report, with all due respect, but I had the impression that another staple was struck by an old report. I'll read it with interest. Oxfam Novib has a good, strong contribution from his responsibility as an NGO. My point is that we must continue to distinguish between measures against tax avoidance and things that the Netherlands must do for its own entrepreneurs and to remain in favour of foreign investors. Let us above all ensure that the OECD package is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u13	I'm sorry it took me a while, but I had to get Mr Van Rij's words to work on me just as well. He talked about the very high marginal pressure when you include the surcharges and the reduction of the surcharges in the range of income from €20,000 to €35,000 and the very high marginal pressure for people on high incomes, of as much as 56%. Shortly afterwards, he said, if I understood him correctly, that the CDA wants marginal pressure to be reduced to less than 50% for all income groups. Does he really mean that, even for income groups from €20,000 to €35,000? Does he really think that the current marginal pressure should go back up to 90% to 50%?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u14	That is a very good question from Mr Köhler. Of course, that is never possible in the category he is talking about, between €20,000 and €35,000. I've got it in front of me. Up to €20,000 the marginal pressure is 12%, including all charges and surcharges. This amounts to 59% at €45,000. Say between €20,000 and €30,000, it's 89% and 87%. Of course, you can't abruptly reduce that marginal pressure in one go. You shouldn't be. I did not say that we are opposed to any form of income dependence. However, we want to take out the very sharp aspects that have now come in. The fact that you have more than €0.50 of each euro you earn is mainly intended for the groups with a modal income and above. The CDA Group strongly opposes the new box 3 regime introduced by the Rutte/Asscher cabinet on 1 January 2017. Possession has traditionally been a priority of the Christian Democrats. We want to reward citizens' own responsibility and sense of savings. The current cabinet is doing exactly the opposite. A saver who currently receives 0.3% in his deposit or bank account makes a negative return of 0.3% with an inflation rate of about 0.6%. From 1 January 2017, a small 0.9% tax will have to be paid on this and will have a negative return of 1.2%. So he's eating up. You could also say that he pays 300% tax on his return of -0.3%. You can't explain this to a civilian. We are talking about 2.3 million taxpayers who have assets between €0 and €100,000, who have already made use of the €25,000 exemption. Two thirds of them put it on such a bank or deposit account. So we're talking about a very large group of people. The CDA already made a plea for this group last year. Thanks to the Secretary of State for his careful and detailed reply, we propose the following. The Secretary of State says that he has devised three alternatives to the current box 3 tax: a capital increase, a capital gain tax and a continuation of the current system, but with a flat rate return that is much closer to the real rate of return and per asset title. But he doesn't choose. That is what he is going to pass on to the next cabinet, while the citizens will be confronted with these brutalized regulations on 1 January. Our proposal is that the Secretary of State should come up with an emergency bill that he will acquire eternal fame with which he will temporarily repair what he will introduce on 1 January 2017, pending the new cabinet. That new cabinet will undoubtedly have to choose. This means doubling the exemption, so that people with a partner do not have to pay a box 3 charge up to €100,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr Van Rij gives the Secretary of State eternal fame with this proposal. However, I have the impression that he himself is looking for eternal fame. We had that discussion last year. In the end, the CDA did not participate in this house in the final phase. That's everyone's choice. Last year we discussed the tax plan, as Mr Van Rij knows. We've been a year. Would it not have been on the way of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to bring this issue into the debate? I would need two employees to find out what actions Mr Omtzigt is doing across the street. I looked at it anyway, but I didn't find any of this. That is my first question: had it not been for the reason to do so there? That's one. I come to my second question. In the end, Mr Van Rij agreed to that miserable arrangement of box 3.......................................................................................................................................................................... In the end, we said: taking everything together, we agree. How am I supposed to see that in this light? After all, in 2016 the scheme has already been introduced for 2017. Mr Van Rij knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u16	Let me start with the last question. Mr Backer also knows that this proposal, which started on 1 January, was linked to the tax plan last year. That was also the reason for the now famous Hoekstra motion. Then we faced a great dilemma. Did we have to say no to the whole tax plan because we did not agree with the box 3 proposal? That was, of course, the trick of this clutch. However, that link was improper, because it would not have been necessary at all. But we are not going to repeat that debate now. We have dealt with this dilemma as follows: we voted in favour of the tax plan, but we asked for a note that we voted against Box 3. I remember that very well. Mr Van Strien asked what I was doing. He didn't understand anything. The President explained that this could be done: you can be in favour of a proposal and you can ask for a note that you voted against a particular item. That's how it happened; those are the facts. I do not really understand Mr Backer's first question. What does he mean by the remark: the CDA dropped out? Is he saying that D66 negotiated inside chambers with the Secretary of State last year to get some concessions that the CDA didn't belong to? Is that what he means? After all, we have simply participated in the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u17	It's gonna be very venomous right now. Mr Van Rij knows very well how things are going here. There is room for discussion and consultation with the Secretary of State, and that has been done. Mr Van Rij claims to have voted against and to have made that point. That is a fact and therefore correct. It's a good thing he says that. But in the end, a total package has been adopted. We have also taken responsibility for this. However, that is all history. We've been a year. If this is such an important subject for the CDA, so I know the CDA too, Mr Van Rij knows how to tackle it. The place to do that is the House of Representatives. However, I am not in favour of repeating every time what happened last year. And he knows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u18	Fair enough. In the first written contribution, the CDA Group has asked very strongly for this and has tambourized on it. What the CDA Group in the House of Representatives has not done I think that Mr Backer wants to make that point is to come up with an initiative legislative proposal. But what isn't can still come. However, Mr Backer is right that this did not happen during the examination of the tax plan in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u19	I listened with great interest to Mr Van Rij who spoke about income policy and the linked box 3, as Mr Backer said. I'm going to include the article this morning in a national newspaper. You see the same idea in that. According to the analysis in it, which I have not been able to calculate because I did not have the time to do so, I do not know whether that analysis is correct either, there has been a great deal of suffering from the people with an income between €50,000 and €75,000. We have to make sure that we do this right. There will be another study of Social Affairs and Employment into marginal pressure. A solution is presented in box 3 by offering a further €100,000 exemption above the first exemption of €25,000. However, I feel that, the last 100 days before the elections, we are talking about an idea for free money. I do not quite understand why this element is being taken into account at this stage of discussion of the 2017 Tax Package. With Mr Backer I wonder whether Mr Omtzigt, as a great representative of the CDA, should not have been the one to launch this idea in the House of Representatives, especially at this stage. Is it appropriate at the moment to consider another system of a box 3 levy as the Secretary of State in his letter of 20 September last? Tells you he's going to assess various alternatives? We also believe that citizens should have a fair tax in box 3. The Secretary of State is working on that. In the preliminary report we also asked: what is the timetable? I do not think that we have given sufficient consideration to the desire to set a concrete timetable, so that citizens can also be clear about how to match real returns. My question to Mr Van Rij is: shall we wait for the results of the measures announced in the letter of 20 September?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u20	I fully agree with Mr Van de Ven that it is awaiting the choice of this cabinet from the three variants. It just takes a little while, because the letter is dated 20 September last. It would have been worth a sweet thing to the CDA if that choice had been made sooner. I'll wait for the Secretary of State's answers to my questions first. Of course, there is no need for an emergency law if the cabinet is actively opting for one of the three variants. I have read that this has been discussed extensively in the House of Representatives. If we can give the government a move in the right direction to deal with this as quickly as possible, and not leave it to the next cabinet, it would be worth a sweet thing to us. However, as long as this has not been done, I am calling for the current system to be repaired by increasing the exemption from €25,000 to €50,000 per taxpayer. I have some ideas about the coverage of this proposal. That is a valid point; we cannot make an open-ended arrangement of it. By the way, it is a temporary solution. As far as we are concerned, this measure should be as short as possible because, like Mr Van de Ven, we want a structural solution which takes real profitability as the starting point for the levy and not the maled system introduced on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u21	So if the Secretary of State could promise to come up with a timetable soon, Mr Van Rij's emergency bill doesn't need treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u22	It is not just about the timetable, but also about the choice that is made in it. So I'm really waiting for the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u23	I would like to comment on Mr Van Rij's comment on the vote for the Tax Plan last year. I did indeed ask for an explanation of that: I understand that you are against Box 3, but you are voting in favour. I understood very well at the time that you could be against something and still vote for it. That was the CDA's vote last year. From the information I have received on the proposal for box 3, an increase in the duty-free rate, I understand that Mr Van Rij wants to compensate for this, he wants to make that more or less budget-neutral by reducing the duty-free rate for higher incomes dependent on income. I think there's a name for that: leveling. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u24	From the lesson that Mr Van Strien and I received from the chairman last year, he has left the rough variant and I have the somewhat more nuanced variant. But that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u25	We simply voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u26	With Mr Van Strien it is for or against. There's nothing else in between. I've noticed that he's mostly against it. It doesn't matter. That lesson has become clear to me. You can ask for a note that you are supposed to have voted against a part. I shall now turn to his question concerning part of that coverage. You could say that the exemption doubles and you leave it at that. In that case, we are assuming a fictitious return of 4% in this very temporary situation. You can also say that you're gonna let that $100,000 exemption go down to $1 million to zero. That's the alternative. This category is better than in the current scheme which starts on 1 January, since from 100,000 onwards a flat-rate return of 4.6% and above a million by 5.39% is included. So there is no leveling in that, as Mr Van Strien says. Those people with a wealth of between 100,000 and a million will pay 1.38% from 1 January and 1.62% above a million. In the proposal I make, that is 1.2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u27	I just want to get it right. As far as I understand it now, Mr Van Rij's proposal does indeed involve further bureaucraticisation of this part of the tax system and further equalisation in the tax system. Those are actually my main conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u28	I'm just trying to prove that there's no leveling. Mr Van Strien talks about assets above 100,000. A flat-rate return of 4.6% must be indicated in the scheme which will start on 1 January. These people are going to pay 1.38%. Over a million, it's 5.39%, and those people are going to pay 1.62%. If our proposal is followed, it will pay 1.2%. That's better than what the cabinet is proposing. That's the best I can do. I agree with Mr Van Strien that it is becoming more complicated. I'm sorry to hear that. I would also prefer to go back to what Mr Van de Ven said about the fact that the cabinet simply chooses quickly from the three variants. I'm waiting for the Secretary of State's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u29	I listened very carefully to Mr Van Rij. I also read the FD this morning very well. I'm getting a little dizzy right now. Mr Van Rij mentions all kinds of amounts: 50,000, 100,000. Is it the level of households or is it the individual level? That seems to me to be rather important in terms of taxation. Would Mr Van Rij reply to that? With my second point, I agree with other colleagues. Why does Mr Van Rij not wait for this point to be added to the cabinet formation? It seems to follow in the very short term. That's the table to settle this, isn't it? Then the CDA can play its role in full play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u30	As far as the latter is concerned, let the voters speak first. Today, in this house, we are holding the debate on the 2017 Tax Plan. We're not playing cabinet formation here. Moreover, I am very pleased that Mr Ester sees a role for my party at the negotiating table. I understand that implicitly. You know, that could just be mutual. That is not the issue at all. It is now about the 2017 Tax Package. It is now a measure which will enter into force on 1 January. It is my right to express the opinion of the CDA on this. I shall return to Mr Ester's first question. Those numbers are based on the response, the figures and Tables 19 and 21. They're not about household income, they're about the individual's income.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u31	I am free to observe that Mr Van Rij's emergency legislative proposal does not address the 2017 Tax Package, but reopens the discussion on the 2016 Tax Package. Of course, he's free to do that. I'm trying to understand his proposal. He has said that he wants to change the capital efficiency levy in two ways, but both the groups covered by his proposal are improving. That's what he argued. Is my conclusion therefore justified that the cover for his proposal is not complete? Surely it is not possible for everyone covered by the capital return tax to make progress, to pay less, and to maintain the same level of government revenue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u32	The Secretary of State has explained very clearly and clearly what the budgetary consequences of our proposal are. I have put it forward in my contribution. I'd like to repeat that. The doubling of this exemption costs 795 million. If you cut that exemption, from 100,000 to a million and above a million, it's $135 million. That means it's 660 million on balance. I have also indicated that we have ideas on how to cover legitimate questions put by Mr Van de Ven. You can't give carte blanche there. To be completely complete, I would add that the Secretary of State also said that our plan would result in more taxpayers being entitled to care payments, rent payments, childcare allowances and child-related budgets. That would cost about 140 million extra. By the way, I say that you can just settle that in the Supplementary Act. That is also a question for the Secretary of State. This increased exemption could be taken into account in the calculation of the base, so that those surcharges do not apply. It is all explained quite extensively in the reply and the note following the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u33	I have a short question. In this part of his speech, Mr Van Rij focused on the small savers. He referred to the doubling of the exemption and the fictitious rate of return. I'm just having a case. There are quite a few people in the Netherlands who did not build a pension, but who bought a cottage maybe 20 or 40 years ago and now sell it. Then suddenly they have one and a half or maybe two tons. That's their pension, too. That is now included for the 4%. Shouldn't we be watching that too? Shouldn't you be looking a lot more at people who are actually going to invest? Surely these are not real savings giants who have to pay for their savings, that they have actually had some kind of pension in their homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u34	I cannot agree more with Mr Schalk. I couldn't agree more. This is exactly the group we're talking about. These are people who have 50,000, 60,000, 100,000, 120,000, maybe 200,000 euros in their bank accounts. I also taste that a little bit from Mr Van de Ven, who called the government in his plea for a timetable. In the three variants of the cabinet, at least in two variants, much more is chosen for what people really enjoy. That would be much more honest. The person in Mr Schalk's example, who sold his house and may have one or two tonnes in the bank account and got 0.3% on it, will understand that he has to pay tax on it, but not that he has to pay 0.9%. The Secretary of State has taken serious action on the execution tests. We very much welcome that. As a co-legislator, we must always ensure that tax measures do work in practice and really meet their objectives. Here lies in particular a task for the Upper House. We welcome the State Secretary's commitment to give a technical briefing on the execution tests. We would appreciate that very much. It is important, however, that good time is taken, including explanation of the examples. We ourselves think the DBA Act is ideally suited to take as an example. The Secretary of State was given the benefit of the doubt by the CDA Group in this Chamber on 2 February last because he made strong statements and commitments, particularly with regard to implementation and enforcement. I call it the timeline, the communication path and the implementation. In addition, our support was linked to a discussion on the report of the Boot Committee. It would be effective if, with the science of today's DBA Act, the Secretary of State were to place the DBA objectively along the bar of his own execution test. At the same time, we believe that the co-legislator should be very reluctant to resort to fiscal instruments at random. For this reason, the CDA Group does not see anything in the proposal for a temporary reduced rate of charging with an independent connection. This is a typical example of fiscal hobbyism that goes far beyond its goal. The CDA is also for electric driving. For this reason, the Group also voted in favour of measures in the Autobrief II which encourage the purchase and use of electric and plug-in hybrids generously. This "postage stamp" measure of the bill temporarily reduced charging posts with an independent connection is really a bridge too far. The CDA Group very much welcomes the use of the internet consultations. That's part of an open posture. It allows a wide range of stakeholders to respond fully transparently to the legislative process when the proposals are still in the nursery. The whole process that led to the legislative proposal on phasing-out of own-account pensions has been very successful. The Secretary of State has shown himself tirelessly to build broad support for the chosen directions of solution after he had a focus on the retina. Dga'ers can calculate after the adoption of the law, but together with the partner and/or the former partner. It is precisely his extensive answers to the questions in the First Chamber that have removed a great deal of uncertainty. The CDA Group is not impressed by the justification of the State Secretary's calculations that 36% of dga's would make use of the buy-back in 2017. He bases that on data from 2009. They're not topical anymore, are they? I'll come to a conclusion. If the omens don't cheat, then the two government partners are looking forward to each other. Maybe not personally, but politically. This is painfully reflected in the field of taxation. Too much has remained or deliberately advanced. I'll list a non-limitative list: a simpler, fairer and fairer income tax system; the necessary reduction in corporate tax rates; taxation of real income from savings and capital; tackling the VAT gap; the future of the business succession scheme; the tax position of thezzp'er; the extension or not of the tax area of municipalities; and last but not least, a well-functioning tax administration capable of meeting the IT challenges of the future and remains an attractive employer. It is to be hoped that this creative and phlegmatic Secretary of State has not been extinct. We look forward with interest to the Government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u35	Madam President. The members of the VVD Group have taken an interest in the 2017 Tax Plan package and the answers of the State Secretary to their questions. At the start of my contribution to the debate, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Wiebes, and his officials, on behalf of my group, for the much work that has been done. This year, too, Mr Wiebes and his officials have made a major contribution to the creation and supervision of the 2017 tax package. The reduction of charges foreseen in the 2017 tax package is 1.2 billion euros. The proposed load reliefs are working on a wide scale. Almost everyone is making financial progress under the proposed income measures. That's a good thing. I will come back to income policy after this. The cost reduction of 1.2 billion for income policies in 2017 was not foreseen a year ago. It is also accompanied by the prospect of more jobs, financial windfalls and positive macroeconomic developments for our industry in 2017. The government's courage to reduce the burden of 5 billion in 2016 has paid itself out to the citizens in general and indeed to the workers, which may be said quietly. Work's gonna be rewarding again. That is the constant policy of the Rutte II cabinet, and the VVD thinks that this policy is excellent. The 2017 tax package also includes measures that are positive for stimulating work in small and medium-sized enterprises. These positive measures include simpler requirements for SMEs than for large companies to qualify for the fiscally favourable innovation box. These less stringent demands were met by the government in Germany, the United Kingdom and France in the context of the OECD debate on tax base erosion and profit shifting. Mr Van Rij has already pointed that out. In English it is called Base Erosion and Profit Shifting of BEPS. Another positive measure is the promotion of innovative start-ups by setting, on the initiative of the start-up ambassador, Mrs Neelie Kroes the so-called standard wage scheme on the statutory minimum wage, provided that the start-up has a research and development statement, the S&D declaration. Furthermore, as a positive incentive for SMEs, the extension of the first corporate tax base, which will be increased from €200,000 to €250,000 from 1 January 2018, and in steps up to €350,000 from 2021 onwards, will apply. For the VVD there is a calm overall picture of the proposed income tax measures for 2017. The VVD supports the measures against the aggressive avoidance of taxation and also supports the proposed simplification measures. I would like to come back to income policy. I would like to point out in advance that the VVD considers balanced income relationships of paramount importance for a fair tax system for all citizens, without discrimination according to age or circumstances. I look in particular at the citizen's disposable income after paying taxes and receiving supplements. In recent years, the cabinet has made it a priority to provide more tax relief for workers. There was a targeted policy choice of the cabinet to stimulate work. This has made the Netherlands stronger out of the toughest financial and economic crisis in recent decades. At its start, the Rutte II cabinet chose to offer young people a perspective for their future. As of today, income is no longer self-evident. I am thinking here of the pension debate that has actually yet to start. This debate must be pursued by a new cabinet with strength in order to achieve real choices. The pensions of our pensioners, in particular, deserve particular attention. The interests of young people, pensioners and those unable to provide for their existence have and receive the attention of the VVD. Having said that, I note that 53 out of 94 pages of the Secretary of State's reply are about income policy, particularly for the elderly. In the note following the report, 29 out of 51 pages of income policy are covered. More than 50% of the State Secretary's two responses concern income policy. More than 50%, Madam President, yes more than 50% of the text deals with income policy in relation to the levy on the last euro of income. That's 50-plus! It's about the VVD in the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr Van de Ven takes the words out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u37	I'm gonna move on unscathed. In the end, the VVD is about how much the citizen's net spending is left in his wallet. The range of situations is unlimited. This is evident from the preliminary report and the report with the many and profound questions on income policy. In the note following the report of the Dutch Parliament of the 2017 Tax Plan, there was also a detailed discussion on income effects for many situations. I take one example from the section in the House of Representatives to clarify my group's focus. With an income of €35,000, a single worker without children pays €8,100 tax. A single pensioner pays €4,800 tax. The difference in tax payable is, of course, due to the fact that the pensioner does not pay an AOW premium. The pensioner of the example pays €3,300 less tax per year. The retired person pays, in other words, €275 less per month in tax than the employed. This benefit of €275 per month for the pensioner is not included in the discussion as it is held. By choosing an incorrect starting point, i.e. by not relying on differences in net income in the pockets of workers and older people, but solely on purchasing power developments as the basis for the test on a reasonable income policy, an incorrect picture is presented. In doing so, this room becomes a theatre in which a mouse is projected like an elephant. The policy of the VVD is aimed at ensuring that older people have a decent income, but in the chosen starting points for the questions on income policy, the VVD Group finds no basis for finding that older people are conscious, structural, and meaningfully disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u38	Of course, I will come back to that in my own contribution. I do not understand why Mr Van de Ven, after last year's Tax Plan of 5 billion, which is almost entirely about the workers, is now saying that pensioners should not complain. They didn't have any part in it last year. I'll come back to the pictures later. Surely Mr Van de Ven is aware that from the moment they receive AOW, AOW people do not pay an AOW premium? That needs to be included in this. Pensioners have paid 40 years of AOW contribution as the workers now also pay AOW contribution. Older people, of course, do not pay an AOW premium and Mr Van de Ven should not say that he thinks this is weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u39	I thank Mr Van Rooijen for his question. It gives me the opportunity to draw attention once again to the fact that you can choose different starting points if you want to create an image. The outcome that we really think is important is what is in the pockets of the workers and pensioners. What net disposable income is ultimately left? If you join the marginal rate and the last euro you charge at a marginal rate, you look with a magnifying glass at the theme that really matters. It's really about what's left in your wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u40	I agree with Mr Van de Ven. I refer him to Table 36 in the response to the First Chamber. This shows that between 2010 and 2017 the purchasing power decline of AOWs with a pension of €10,000 is 5% to 11%. Between 2010 and 2017, pensioners who have a pension of €20,000 or more in addition to the AOW are facing a decrease of 7% to 12%. That seems more important to me. I agree with the remark on the marginal rate, but these are the hard facts of the last seven years. I shall come back to that in detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr Van Rooijen is attacking my memory. I believe that Table 36 is on page 55 of the explanatory memorandum. It states that this income loss occurred in particular in 2012 and 2013. We are not talking about the 2013 Tax Plan or the 2014 Tax Plan, but about the 2017 Tax Plan. I have kept the figures 8, 9, 10 and 11 in the reply against the light, because the lines are all black, but then you see that the lines for the years 2016 and 2017. In other words, I think this discussion is deaf; for non-lawyers: too late. I have expressed this view a little more diplomatically. That discussion could have taken place four years ago when the 2012 Tax Plan was being discussed and not so much today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u42	I've got those pictures in color. It is not strange to look at a purchasing power picture of this cabinet for a longer period, because that gives a better picture and a better average. Then it doesn't really matter which years you choose. This comparison means that the decline in purchasing power is enormous, but Mr Van de Ven does not go into that. I also agree with him that pensioners were hit hard in 2012/2013. This has to do with the infamous Law on standardization of wages. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u43	Taking note of Mr Van Rooijen's comment. I will now move on to my lines. Furthermore, in the context of balanced income policies, the allowances cannot be left untreated such as the care allowance, rent allowance, childcare allowance and the child-related budget. Following Mr Omtzigt's motion in the Lower House and Mr Schalk's motion in the Upper Chamber, the cabinet announced that an investigation by SZW will be conducted into marginal pressure. This study will therefore cover the levy on the last euro of income. More important than the tax on the last euro that a taxpayer receives, the VVD Group considers the amount of euros left by the citizen in his wallet to be justified and balanced in terms of income relations and income taxation. In the view of the VVD Group, the granting of surcharges should be involved in the examination of SZW. Following the letter from Minister Asscher of Social Affairs and Employment dated 12 December 2016, which was yesterday, on the design of the research marginal pressure, the VVD considers that that research, in addition to marginal pressure, has to include net disposable income for citizens in the various scenarios. The VVD remains in favour of a social safety net to allow fellow citizens who cannot provide their own income to take part in the development of our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u44	I listened with interest to this part of Mr Van de Ven's speech. If I understand correctly, he says that you should not focus too much on the marginal pressure and the last euro you deserve, but that you should look at what is left of your net income. Mr Van de Ven came up with the example of a single person with a modal income of €36.000 who pays over €8,000 tax. I've been looking at the same state. I have given an example of the other extreme: thezzp'er, a mother with child under 12 years old and a partner who pays €67 tax. If Mr Van de Ven also wants to concentrate on those net incomes in the investigation of this marginal pressure, does he agree with me that during this cabinet period, people, depending on their personal circumstances, are net in their income affected by a cumulative effect of increasing the limits of reductions in the income path €20,000 - €35,000 and making income dependent on reductions on the fact that the surcharges are already income-dependent? I understand from Mr Schalk that the background to his motion is that it is a bit absurd that, depending on their personal circumstances, people are faced with a single earner who does not always consciously choose to do so by combining measures with a much higher tax burden. Does the VVD now want to do something about this or does the VVD say: no, this has been a wonderful policy for the past four years, so continue this policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u45	First of all, I think Mr Van Rij is doing a hand-in-hand to clarify my position. First, I would like to respond in a general way by asking whether the CDA had taken better measures by spending more money if it had been in the government. That's a rhetorical question. I don't need an answer to that. Mr Van Rij also asked what the VVD would do with the results of the research carried out by Minister Asscher for Social Affairs and Employment. The VVD's commitment is to look at the euros in the pockets of citizens, workers, pensioners and young people to see whether everyone can keep a fair feeling and say: yes, it happens in the Netherlands, that's my income. We'll wait for that investigation. It's coming. I can't anticipate that. It is Minister Asscher's responsibility to come up with that. After that, we're going to determine position. That seems to me to be justified. Indeed, Mr Van Rij's journey of €20,000 to €30,000 as a result of the Schalk motion is one of the themes to be included in this study. The VVD Group is of the opinion that this would be the following sentence in my text of the text of the text of the text of the motion for a resolution: My group realises that this is an extremely difficult and complex whole, and that it is necessary to look at various circumstances in which people live. But, and now I come to my text: the VVD Group in the First Chamber wonders why about 75% of the Dutch people should be on the supplement infusion in the run-up to the investigation of Social Affairs and Employment. In other words, there must indeed be an integral examination of the charges and the surcharges. We need to look at how these work out in all the different scenarios that have now been laid down. It is not clear to me what direction the hundreds of questions put by the 50PLUS Group are heading. I do not yet see a clear pattern in this to say what this has to do with the justice of our tax system and with income policy. In his contribution to this debate, Mr Van Rij has put in the position of people who earn between €50,000 and €70,000. There are also young people. They have not yet been discussed. Other than that, there are older people. We therefore want an overall review. We expect a splendid and well-founded investigation from the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Asscher. Unfortunately, he's not here today, but I think that's completely excusable, given his personal circumstances. We'll wait for that investigation. On the basis of the principles I have just formulated, we will then take our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u46	I'll be brief. I welcome this answer. It consisted of many words, but I take it that Mr Van de Ven says that his group wants to have an integral balance between the tax rebates on the one hand and the surcharges on the other hand and how this affects individuals and households on the other. He says he's waiting for the report at the same time. The cabinet's gonna be surprisingly busy. It has to come up with a report on box 3 before the elections. And Asscher promised this report, I believe, before 15 March. In any case, I understand that the VVD, like the CDA, believes that the current instruments should be substantially revised, to say the least, as soon as the results of the report are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u47	Now it's always the case that you should never throw away your old shoes, because then you walk barefoot. This is not very pleasant in the Netherlands, especially in winter. We'll wait for that report. We see anomalies in the legislation in the Netherlands. We see effects that are not meant to be. We would like to see this dependency on surcharges different, but with the result a balanced income policy that is broad and not focused on a particular target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u48	I have a very short question. Mr Van de Ven referred to the questions of our 50PLUS group. We had more than 50% of the questions, but that is not the point. Have they given him more insight into the chaos in income taxes, the pressure in the rates and the tax rebates, or does he say: it's all nice and nice, but it's really homework that needs to be done now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u49	I've read the questions. At that time, I immediately had an enormous amount of respect for the officials of the Treasury. When I saw the answers to those questions, I had much more respect for the Treasury officials. Let's just wait and see the results of the investigation. We think it is time to examine the, I must say, differences in income. From my perspective, this discussion could have taken place in the 2012-2013 Tax Package.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u50	I would like to join in Mr Van de Ven's respect for the officials of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u51	I am done with my income policy section and move on to the other aspects of the 2017 Tax Plan Package. We still have a number of questions on the other legislative proposals. Following a question from the VVD on the Tax Simplification Act 2017, the State Secretary notes that the continuation of the abolition of the fictitious employment of the Commissioners to the non-executive directors is a matter for further examination. Can the VVD Group of the State Secretary know that the outcome of that study can be expected at the latest at the time of the presentation of the 2018 Tax Plan? The VVD Group noted with satisfaction that the motion of former colleagues Bröcker and Essers, which was adopted in December 2012 during the examination of the 2013 Tax Plan in the First Chamber, led, after a long process, to the legislative proposal for the Own-Management Law (PEB), which is now pending in this house. An intensive trajectory of the Secretary of State and his predecessor in office with the Lower House and with organisations of stakeholders can be discussed. For the record, until I retired from the Ernst & Young Tax Advisors partnership at the end of 2010 as a partner, I built up a self-employed pension in accordance with the standards that apply from time to time at EY to the members. I myself have never advised third parties about pensions under my own administration. An important civil law aspect of the phasing-out of the self-employed pension is the position of the partner of the director-major shareholder. As the partner regularly renounces his or her pension rights under the phasing-out possibilities, important civil law aspects are to be assessed and respected. In doing so, difficult choices must be made which have substantial civil law implications. This may be emotionally sensitive in the relationships between spouses or partners. The Secretary of State increases the phase-out of the PEB with the tax threat of the possible levying of gift tax. In the preliminary report, my group pointed out that the Secretary of State stated that it is technically possible to include in the Succession Act an explicit provision that the PEB is not considered a gift to the partner. The Secretary of State is not in favour of this exemption, given the precedent that can be used, he states. However, the VVD Group considers that an exemption from the gift tax on the purchase of the PEB is not a precedent but an incident, just as the phasing out of the PEB itself is an incident. Moreover, the whole discussion about the liability of gift tax in transactions without compensation between outside the community of property married or partners is based on the opportunistic interpretation by the Tax Administration of old tax rulings of the Supreme Court of 1959 and 1971. That case-law merely confirms that no donation is accepted in a community of goods in transactions between spouses without compensation. Long-term and costly disputes with the Tax Administration threaten to phase out in the individual case of a PEB on the liability of gift tax following a joint decision by spouses or partners. The threat is all the more serious given the State Secretary's view that, in summary, there is no donation in the partner's appropriate compensation in relation to pension legislation. That guideline is too unclear and is an invitation for tax inspectors to "go against'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u52	I have a question to ask Mr Van de Ven to get this sharp, so that I can understand him. I am talking about the situation where a dga chooses to stamp. That is the first step, so the step from commercial to fiscal. Then he has the choice between buying off and converting into an old-age obligation. In that marking of commercial value to tax value, there can be a gift element, because the partner or the former partner will reveal something. However, that is conditional, because that depends on an event. That event is the death of the dga or divorce. That is an uncertain event in the future. I understood the Secretary of State's answers as follows. In situations of a general community of goods, it is not a problem and in situations of a prenuptial agreement with a final settlement clause it is not a problem either. Only in situations of prenuptial terms with, for example, a periodic netting agreement which has not been implemented................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, this can only be done in a qualitative sense, as long as this uncertain event has not occurred. Will Mr Van de Ven give a one-off grant exemption for that last situation in the law, while the responsibility to write it down properly is actually up to the partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u53	The answer is yes, but I will answer a little more comprehensively. This is a very technical point raised by Mr Van Rij. His analysis is correct. In the 1959 judgment I now have to be a bit technical too, unfortunately, the point of departure of Finance, the Tax Administration and also the Secretary of State was different for the Supreme Court. Then it was assumed that there was a gift at the time the prenup was changed. Mr Van Rij's analysis is correct. Indeed, I am concerned that in the civil process that partners have with each other, you can expect them not to look at the Tax Office with a distorted eye to determine how they can do as much to the tax authority as possible if they agree on pension rights. The point will be that there are business agreements in a business relationship. If you have to take the pension rules into account, then the discussion that we have had before about the Ultimate Forward Rate, for example, will arise: do you have to take that into account? Do you have to take the market interest rate into account in the compensation? Should it be a negative market rate? Then you're on that civil process. I believe that the civil process between these partners is separate from the legislative proposal to achieve a phasing-out of the self-employed pension. The managing director-major shareholder must take action on this. This is facilitated in income tax, payroll tax, premium tax, revision interest and corporate tax. For the gift tax, however, it is said: success on your route. You may wonder if this is too large or too small a group. I don't know. I don't have that data available. In any case, from a liberal point of view, I think it should stop a little bit with the mailbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u54	Very briefly. Mr Van de Ven agrees that the answers given by the Secretary of State in the reply have created a great deal of clarity for the situations I have described. He is therefore really concerned with the situations in which there is a prenuptial agreement and therefore not with the overall community of goods or the other situations I have mentioned. It is inherent in a civil matter. I fully agree with Mr Van de Ven. In the end, you're talking about claims, and those are legal rights. Whether that uncertain event occurs will depend on the conditions. It is quite clear to me what Mr Van de Ven is asking. I'll wait with him for the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u55	It is a bit technical indeed. So far, I agree with Mr Van Rij's summary. The vast majority of dgas are male. Let me focus on the position of the wife/wife after prenup. She is only taking part in this debate. Eventually, she's gonna have to give her approval. Do I understand the commitment that Mr Van de Ven says that when he talks, he should not hang over the market that there is still a right of donation? The law does not enter into the civil law relationship, but does not seize it in advance by the donation. Is that Mr Van de Ven's pure reasoning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u56	I think that Mr Backer is focusing very specifically and quite correctly on the element of the legislative proposal on self-run phasing-out pensions. It is true that I see the point of the relationship between the partners/husbands. That route should not be threatened by an additional 20% gift tax. Then we go back to a offered rate of 36%, plus 20%. This is calculated in half, but I still hear 56% as a rate. You shouldn't phase out like that. You just have to be a man, sorry, or a woman, but you have to have the courage to make a decision and say you're taking the risk. I'll get back to my lines. There is, however, a bit of duplication, because I have given answers to the, otherwise good, questions put by Mr Van Rij and Mr Backer. Moreover, the whole discussion about the liability of gift tax in transactions without compensation between outside the community of property married/partners is based on the opportunistic interpretation by the Tax Administration of old tax rulings of the Supreme Court of 1959 and 1971. That case-law merely confirms that no donation is accepted in a community of goods in transactions between spouses without compensation. Long-term and costly disputes with the Tax Administration threaten to phase out in the individual case of a PEB on the liability of gift tax following a joint decision by spouses/partners. I read the rest of the text later, so I am not going to repeat it. The Secretary of State opts for clarity for the payroll tax, social security contributions, revision interest and corporation tax, but the Secretary of State leaves the risk of the gift tax that is attributable to the non-fiscal but civil law relationship between spouses/partners, in fact an open issue. The VVD Group asks the State Secretary to provide for an exemption from donation tax on the occasion of the phasing-out of own-account pensions. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u57	Can Mr van de Ven explain the implications of his proposal for public finances?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u58	I think that, with my question to the Secretary of State, I will take this question with me right away. So I ask him what the financial consequences might be. I also note that there is also a point of principle. In view of the fact that Mr Van Rij has pointed out that it is one group among many, I would estimate that the financial consequences fall within the usual ranges. I'll come to a conclusion. The members of the VVD Group thank the Secretary of State and his officials once again for their commitment and commitment to the 2017 Tax Plan package. They look forward to the State Secretary's reply to their questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and, through him, the Finance Officers for the detailed and careful examination of the questions. After reading the answers in the reply and the note in connection with the report, I was reminded of a well-known statement by Johan Cruijff blissfully: you can't see it until you understand it. And in my words, it's not what it looks like. The answers to the questions asked by our group in the 2017 Tax Plan, as well as all the answers to our many questions in the 2016 Tax Plan, have clearly identified the chaos in our income tax. Income tax has become a political game of secondary purposes of taxation. Labour market policies and income policies have become key objectives. Income tax is increasingly a division of grotesque tax rebates. This leads to a high marginal pressure on incomes between €20,000 and €40,000, just above average and also on incomes above that level: €50,000 and above. Employees with an income of up to €20,000 pay almost no income tax and AOW premium: around €1,800. Self-employed persons with an income of up to €23.000 do not pay any tax and AOW premium at all. In response to our question, the Secretary of State indicated that in the period 2012-2017, the increase in the ceiling of the employment discount and the IACK was put down by 10.6 billion. Mr Van Rij pointed that out. If this had not been done, the tax rates in box 1 could be reduced by 2.8%. That's a big reduction in the wedge. There can easily be a few billion more because of the other changes in the employment discount. Very globally there may have been a shift of around 15 billion by turning all buttons. Can the Secretary of State give an indication of that total? The answer to another question from our group is that the total budget of the labour cut is 18 billion, and the general tax cut is nearly 20 billion. Totally 38 billion with grotesque discounts, which I mentioned earlier. This could reduce the rates in box 1 by 4.8% and 5,25% respectively, with a total of 11,4% and the IACK by 12%. What does the Secretary of State think of this alternative? The income group from one-and-a-half to two-fold is the loss of 15 billion by turning the many buttons of the discounts. Can it be stated what the consequences are for this middle group? The income tax gives a pitiful picture. I can't come to any other conclusion, I'm sorry to say that Dutch income tax is deadly sick. This is partly due to the government's policy on income and labour market, which plays an increasingly dominant role in income tax policy. The end of this policy is certainly not in sight when I look at the electoral programmes of political parties. Some parties argue for the introduction of a so-called employee deduction, which then comes alongside the labour discount. Apparently, it's hard to stand up for the workers. And, of course, it has nothing to do with taxation according to capacity. I now come to income policy. I would have liked to discuss this with the Minister for Social Affairs, but of course I respect his absence. The last review of income policy was the policy review of Article 41 of 2011. It looked back at the years 2002-2010. Now there is the note Looking back income policy and purchasing power 2012/2017 of November. In this I find the following definition of income policy: only measures which turn the buttons of the instruments are included in income policy. That's a nice formulation. It can't be said any more louder and clearer. We therefore see this debate as a good opportunity to look back with the Secretary of State at income and labour market policy in relation to the tax policy of the Rutte II cabinet, the cabinet that has worked on these buttons for four years. The Minister gives a definition of income policy: it includes policies of taxation, social security and income support schemes, including supplements. Income policy is dominant in fiscal policy and tax policy in turn is again the most important part of income policy. How clear the dominance of income policy in fiscal policy is is shown by the fact that every year I still have to get used to it. The explanation of the tax plan begins with income policy and not with fiscal proposals to finance public expenditure. Labour market policy is the other pillar of income policy, where the political mantra is "work must pay" and where the Minister for Employment certainly plays the first violin. According to the Minister, income policy is characterised by a focus on labour market incentives, a recommendation stemming from the 2011 policy review. We ask the Secretary of State to indicate the basic principles of income and labour market policy and the way in which cohesion with fiscal policy is shaped. For example, "spitshure" and "life walk approach" are terms that I read and hear. The objectives of income and labour market policies have led to the longstanding existence of three types of taxable person: workers, beneficiaries and pensioners. The last two groups are put away as non-working people. Pensioners are simply deprived of a number of tax rights, as if they do not exist, at least as if they do not matter for policy. In particular, workers and pensioners receive a totally different tax treatment. This reeks of fiscal age discrimination. I mentioned that last year. The most distressing thing is that older people have to contribute to the burden burden reduction, and I would say that this is no different, but that they are often excluded from the burden relief. For example, the 5 billion package focused on making work more profitable. And now it comes, and I quote the Minister: 'AOW workers generally do not work and therefore, as a group, have relatively less benefit from measures aimed at workers'. That's a rarely beautiful formulation. As if it doesn't matter that pensioners have worked for 40 years. In our view, this is an anti-elderly cabinet and its VVD and PvdA anti-elderly parties that have agreed and continue to support anti-elderly policies, supported by D66, GroenLinks and the Christian Union. These parties, too, have little in common with the elderly. This was evident, for example, in the 5 billion package, but also in pensions. I remember the approval two years ago by the Senate of the financial review framework. I keep calling that "financial future ruined" and I keep doing that. In this context, I would like to come back to the original government agreement, whereby an income-dependent care premium was agreed at the card table with a huge leveling through, not least, the care premium. That was announced as: we are going to introduce an income-dependent care premium. As if there was not already a high income-dependent care premium: almost 7% on income up to €55,000. How stupid could you be back then? This unholy plan was off the table within a few days, but another form of profound leveling was agreed. After all, the PvdA's leveling party had to continue. This leveling has come about in a grotesque way, with the low point being the reduction of the ever higher tax reductions, and in particular the general tax reduction to even the zero level, zero. Yeah, even for workers. It is internationally embarrassing and unique: Dutch taxpayers without a tax-free foot. Every civilized country has a duty-free foot. In any case, delete the word "general." I would like to receive a detailed response from the Secretary of State. The coalition parties VVD and PvdA are jointly responsible for the disastrous income policy, especially for the elderly. Behind the façade of the progressive rate in general lies a tax burden drama. The note on the income policy of the Minister for Social Affairs reads as a kind of annual overview of the KNMI: it records what the weather has been in recent times. In my view, it was plenty of summer for the workers and a rotten winter for the pensioners with some temporary clearances. For some time now, we have been calling for the cabinet to leave the elderly in the cold. Minister Asscher said last week in the Lower House that it was ensured that the minimum benefit beneficiaries and the elderly with low income did not fall through the ice. That is the Minister's position: the rest can sink through the ice; the elderly with a slightly higher income than minimal. That is the face of the PvdA's designated leader. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State, as a representative of the Cabinet, to this view of the Minister. The Minister added that the Netherlands has and continues to have a relatively balanced income distribution. We do not think it is balanced that over the last seven years older people have fallen by 7% to 12% and that workers have improved by 5% to 10%. This is shown in Table 36 of the reply and in Annex 2 of the Social Affairs Note. Can the Secretary of State explain that minus 7% to 12% versus plus 5% to 10% is balanced policy? What is the measure of the government's income policy? It is striking that the policy pursued in the note is partly described as a natural phenomenon: it is as it is. For example, the extremely low interest rate is also considered a natural phenomenon; as a factual fact. The cabinet wouldn't be about that. But the ftk is a decision of the cabinet and approved by parliament. The cabinet itself can relax the ftk rules in order to mitigate the effects of low interest rates and discounts in the coming years, but it does not. On 18 November, my colleague Mr Krol tabled an own-initiative proposal in the House of Representatives under number 34606................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The initiative proposal avoids reductions for the coming years. This is very important because by 2020 there will be a large 15% reduction if the coverage rate remains at 90%. That is 15% below the requirement 105%. For workers there is an increase in wages and a tax reduction. For pensioners, there is no indexing, so there is no increase in income, but there is no tax reduction. There are, at most, temporary purchasing power repairs à la merci of the cabinet. Thus, as a matter of course, there is a division in the policy in which pensioners are not entitled to tax equal treatment and are therefore treated as second-class citizens. Every criticism is swept away by the framing of wealthy elderly people. That's a form of old-age bashing. I will come back to that, of course. Income policies and employment policies are mentioned in the note too late to explain the larger policy packages, such as the Law on the Uniformation of Wage Concept, the 6-billion package in 2014 and the 5-billion package in 2016. The common feature of these operations is that the elderly are the great losers. That's because the cabinet really doesn't think it's necessary to deal with this group of 3 million people carefully and with respect. They're being put away as non-working people. In addition, it is forgotten that pensioners are people who have worked hard to build the Netherlands after the war. They no longer have a socio-economic function and are merely an accounting cost item. The evidence is that burden increases are for everyone, including for the elderly, but reliefs are usually only or almost only for the workers. I refer to the 6 billion package in 2014 with the higher VAT for everyone and to the five billion package that was mainly for the workers. We have a completely different picture of purchasing power development, as shown by the facts and figures. The cumulative purchasing power over the period 2010-2017 has fallen by an average of 5% for older people with AOW and a pension of €10,000 and by an average of 7% to 10% for older people with a pension of €20,000 or higher. The working population has a cumulative improvement of 7%. What does the Secretary of State think of these figures? I'd like to hear an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u60	In my contribution, I referred to an example in the note on the report. In it a certain income was mentioned. It was a question from the CDA. Mr Van Rij also pointed out this. It was about the single working and the single older. The single elderly had a net benefit of €275 disposable income per month. My question to Mr Van Rooijen is whether the older widow would not rather go to the youth matinee with her grandchildren and then eat a pancake in the pancake farm rather than worry about the last median euro that is taxable at the marginal rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u61	I think it is a very complicated question, which I would prefer to return to in the second term. It doesn't get me off the path I want to deal with right now. I would like to continue with this by asking the Secretary of State if he wishes to comment on those facts in Table 36 in the reply. That has been discussed before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u62	I would like to help Mr Van Rooijen. I think Mr Van de Ven just wants to know if that single widow can afford that pancake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u63	We'll ask the Secretary of State. I still can't handle the question. It's probably just me. The figures of the CBS requested by us for the period 2000-2015 show that this is another, longer period of time, the following purchasing power development at the same source of income. The purchasing power of pensioners has been stable since the year 2000. That's right. The number of employees is now 30% higher. Even disabled persons and beneficiaries of benefits are doing better than pensioners during that period. Within the group of pensioners, those who have a decent supplementary pension are doing much worse, to some degree of modality. They have been declining by 10% since 2000. Workers improved 30% and pensioners with an additional pension of €20,000 fell by 12%. That is a difference of 42 %. In 2016 and 2017, that difference became even greater. Is that balanced? In response to our question about this overview of the CBS for the period 2000-2015, it is noted that this overview is less appropriate to assess the balance of income policies. For example, an overview of the CBS that the cabinet is not happy is downed. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks of that today. The Secretary of State answers our question whether he would like to ask the CBS to gather information on the purchasing power development between 2000 and 2015 of people with an additional pension of more than €20,000 that he is not going to ask the CBS. I quote again: 'The cabinet does not consider such a request desirable for methodological reasons and therefore not viable'. Half of the AOWs now come to the pension fund has a supplementary pension of €10,000 or less, which limits the group with an additional pension of over €20,000. We've said that before, and then we've been laughed at. It is striking that the Ministry of Social Affairs has in any case calculated the purchasing power development over the period 2010-2017 which shows that they are able to make calculations of the purchasing power of AOWs with an additional pension between €20,000 and €60,000. I refer to Table 36 in the reply. So I would once again ask the Secretary of State to ask the CBS to do so. In my opinion, the investigation is indeed possible, because the Ministry of Social Affairs was able to calculate it for a somewhat shorter period. What do you mean, rich elderly people? The framing is finally pierced. Half the elderly have a pension of less than €10,000. Let me explain. The replies to the Social Affairs budget show that only one sixth of pensioners have more than €1,500 gross pension per month. And the financial assets excluding own housing are for most elderly households around €23,000. Half of them are underneath and half above them. The Minister himself notes the effects of income policy that, both with and without the income policy of the Rutte cabinet, workers and beneficiaries have improved. For 95% and 71% of these groups respectively, purchasing power has improved. The purchasing power of pensioners, on the other hand, has fallen with and without policies. For 55% of pensioners, purchasing power has deteriorated. I refer to Table 3 and Figure 12. Finally, I have a few questions about the bill. We agree with the CDA's question on the question of cash-in payments in relation to tax rebates, which have already reached 3.7 billion. For the old people's discount, it's 400 million. We believe that the elderly are entitled and hold on to this 400 million. I'd like to hear an answer from the Secretary of State. That is also a small bridge to the abrupt decline of the elderly discount. This is not the case in the case of any tax rebate. In the General Financial Reviews, I discussed this in detail. At that time, our group had already announced that it would stick to a solution to this distressing problem. Suddenly you lose €1.221 if your income increases with a few euros above the limit of €36.057. This is a left-wing leveling over the back of pensioners with a pension of €25,000 that has not been indexed for seven years and will not be indexed for the next ten years either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u64	Did I hear Mr Van Rij say that was a left-wing leveling?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u65	This is Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u66	Excuse me, I mean Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u67	The current scheme is that you suddenly lose €1.221 in old age discount if a few euros have more pension than the border. That is a huge punishment if, for example, you get a few euros in pension by indexing. At the moment it's a rather theoretical story, I'm afraid, but it could also be a small annuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u68	I know the problem. To counter this, Mr Krol has tabled a motion in the Lower House which has received the support of the left-wing parties, including my party. That's why I kind of fell over the words "left leveling."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u69	I appreciate the addition of Mr. on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u71	Yes, Mr Köhler. I was just thinking. He referred to that motion, but there was also an amendment tabled by Mr Krol which most of the parties opposed. That has therefore been rejected. In this case, I meant by 'left' that the cabinet has a left-wing policy on this point. PvdA and VVD think it is perfectly normal that a modal pensioner crossing the border of €36.000 should turn in €1.221. That's a marginal pressure of many hundred percent. Mr Van Rij also referred to such forms of astronomical marginal pressure. This one definitely gets the Guinness Book of Records
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u72	The SP Group in the House of Representatives also voted in favour of that amendment. I would point out to Mr van Rij that this amendment has received more support from the left than from the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u73	It's still Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u74	Sorry, Mr. Van Rooijen. Why the government's policy on this point should be described as a left-wing leveling is completely lacking in me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u75	I think I've made myself clear. It is a good thing that Mr Köhler has added. Of course, I did not miss the fact that the SP did support the amendment. It's just how you feel addressed. I meant the left-wing cabinet. Last year, and this year, the cabinet refused to address the need for a gradual reduction of the elderly discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u76	Mr Backer, I saw Mr Van Rij go to the interrupting microphone earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u77	Does that have anything to do with the confusion of understanding?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u78	No, no, Mr Van Rij is in the wings and Mr Van Rooijen is behind the chair. The questioner was Mr Köhler. I call Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'll take care of your lead. I see that Mr Van Rooijen is already quite warm for his future role. My question concerns the following. There's all kinds of injustice. In the tables you see very strange jumps. Couldn't it be that there's no conscious leveling injustice in those steps? It may also partly be the result of the system of tax rebates which Mr Van Rooijen started his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u80	It is a good thing that Mr Backer mentions the system of tax rebates. That makes it easier for me to make my point. All discounts, the general tax rebate, the labour rebate and the income-dependent combination discount are phased out from a high level. Only the elderly discount has nothing to do with that. It's what it is and that's not gonna change. It doesn't matter if it's unjust. The elderly are rich enough anyway. You just drop the drop axe of €1.221 if you get €1 more. If you have less income than the border by means of a deductible gift, please note State Secretary: a deductible gift! For one euro, you will receive an extra gift of €1.221. That too, of course, is an anomaly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u81	Mr Van Rij has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u82	Here's the real Mr. Van Rij. It's a little "Who of the Three." In view of the age difference, I consider it a great compliment to Mr Van Rooijen that he is systematically referred to as Mr Van Rij. I need to worry about that a little bit more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u83	Your hair is whiter than Mr Van Rooijen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you. I hadn't noticed. We're gonna compare that later. The CDA is also sensitive to the very abrupt reduction of the elderly discount. If I am not mistaken, Mr Van Rooijen made the bridge when he was talking about the problem of cashing. The Secretary of State replied that 400 million of the elderly discount cannot be paid. Then there was the answer to that, as did the other part of the 3.7 billion. Am I to understand that Mr Van Rooijen does not want this phase-out to take place so abruptly but in a somewhat longer course? The question then is: to what income? Of course, you can't use the 400 million one-on-one because it's already sunk, but you can see it as some kind of justification. However, one way or another you have to cover this. I agree with Mr Backer that we are now concentrating very much on the elderly discount. In my contribution, I have argued that all these discounts have been made dependent on income. That's the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u85	I will reply to Mr Van Rij's question in the course of my speech. He will agree with me that, unlike the other discounts, there is no phasing-out here. That has little to do with the systematic as a whole. This is the exception to the rule that there is always a gradual phasing-out. Our group is calling for a gradual reduction of the old-age discount to €55,000. That's over 240 million dollars. Can the cabinet make a commitment to include this phasing-out in the 2018 Tax Plan? I'd like an answer. We are considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term, depending on the answer given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr Van Rij's question as to where the cover comes from has not yet been answered. What funding does Mr Van Rooijen envisage for his proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u87	You're right about that. Mr Van Rij himself implicitly gave the answer. I agree with that. Mr Van Rij did not give a full answer, and I am not doing so now. I have pointed out that there is a 400 million cash-in problem with the old-age discount. 700,000 elderly people do not receive the old-age discount they are actually entitled to because they have a very low income. It's just gonna have to be said again. The reduction of the elderly discount should be financed next year. Next year there will be a new tax plan with a new cover. We believe that it is a moral right for the elderly to use the 400 million as cover for next year as a result of not paying the elderly's discount. Our group also calls for the income limit of €36.057 to be increased to €40,000. That is a completely different proposal. That's gonna cost another 160 million. The 400 million-dollar cash-in room has been filled in. I'd like an answer. We have previously asked about the budgetary implications of a 1% return to savings balances of €100,000 in box 3. There was a large amount of money involved. I was thinking 900 million. We ask the Secretary of State if he can indicate the consequences of adding a maximum power of between €100,000 and €150,000 with a gradual phasing-out. For the first tonne of savings in a bank account, a return of 1% instead of the flat-rate return is charged. In order to prevent this from happening to people with much more power, the ceiling for phasing-out is set at €150,000 with a gradual phasing-out. We await the answer of the Secretary of State with great interest. I shall return to the Hoge Raad's judgment on the VAT rate for pension funds in the second term. That is a very unusual and worrying judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to the staff of the Ministry of Finance who were guests here for a briefing. I will not talk any more about answering Mr Van Rooijen's questions, because of course I have benefited from them. It is impossible to discuss all the proposals in the given time. That's why I made a selection. I would like to make a few general remarks at the beginning. The cabinet succeeded in getting a majority in the Lower House behind its proposals. That's been different. We had to make a number of choices in 2016, including in this Chamber. I mention, among other things, the adjustment of the elderly discount and the relief of small savers in box 3. Of course, we stand for those choices. A number of new choices have been made in the 2017 Tax Package. There is a purchasing power repair, both occasional and structural. In addition, the focus is less on employment promotion than in 2016. We will assess those choices on their own merits. The note following the report that we received this weekend, and we are working until the last minute on this debate, show clearly and numerically which choices have been made for 2017. Of course, they are not endorsed by everyone. When I look at the package, I note that a number of illogical interventions have been made in the 2017 employment discount which have negative effects on employment. There are also remarkable leaps in, among other things, the marginal tax burden, which has already been discussed in detail. The rule of box 3 is unsatisfactory. We have already had a little debate on this at the beginning of this meeting. This would be an intermediate step, but it seems that this gap from 2017 needs to be maintained longer, namely until 2020. There are three variants, A, B and C, but given the letter of September 20th, nothing is done with that now. Mr Van Rij has already sent out a distress signal which, in my opinion, cannot have an effect on this treatment. Last but not least, I mention the implementation problem of the DBA Act which has eliminated the soil under the earning model of manyzzp'ers in cases where that is not justified. Mr Rinnooy Kan discussed this in detail during the General Financial Reviews. This was also discussed in the House of Representatives. That's why I won't do this right now. It has already come along a few times that the tables in the reply and the note following the report show strange steps in marginal pressure at incomes between €20,000 and €25,000. Later you will see this in income between €25,000 and €35,000. And then there are not even overviews of the accumulation of IB and box 3. This is due to the fact that, in the context of the fundamental reform of the system in 2001, Mr Van Rooijen will remember this while the tariff system under the Income Tax Act has remained intact, but also various facilities have been introduced, such as the tax rebates. As a result, tariff structures have been created for all kinds of groups in society. Their effects are sometimes opaque. Sometimes they are transparent, but it has become a kind of call sign. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament is all very well aware of this. This applies not so much to what is in it as to what is not in it, namely to initiate a fundamental and urgent review. This has already been brought in by a number of colleagues this morning. It is good that there is a widespread feeling about this. The Secretary of State won't let him get away with it. He writes in a letter that the cabinet is unable to do so, but that letter dates back to 2014. That is incredibly unfortunate, but it is also worrying, because it has been pushed forward for years. As a result, this debate deals with a number of issues that really need to be discussed in the longer term. I refer to the changing economy and the changes in society. The changing way of living and working and the increased participation of older people could play a role in the tax distinction between an employed person, the managing director-major shareholder and the self-employed person. This should actually be looked at in a different way. We are not solving this right now, but I would like to hear some thoughts from the Secretary of State on this. The position of zzp'ers and flexworkers has increased their number after the introduction of the WWZ illustrates that we really need to do something about it. I agree with the final sentence of the review article in the independent Monthly Tax Reviews of October 2016, in which Professor van Arendonk says: "I hope that next spring after the government agreement of a new cabinet will be good news." Forgive the metaphor, but with this tax plan flower boxes and flower cups are actually moved in a garden that is disorderly and is in danger of being overgrown. It is a garden that has become a playground for all kinds of snack operations. We have to discipline ourselves every year, because the temptation is great. There is always an unrighteous purchasing power. The morality is that discipline is an important starting point for taxation, because this is one of the most essential tasks of the State. The opinion of the citizen on and confidence in politics is, of course, also influenced. I will not go along with Mr Van Rooijen and call the system deadly ill, but of course the necessary improvements can be made. If we characterise it that way, we will not help tax morals. The behavioral economy knows that for the individual tax morale the meaning and expectations of what others do, the failure or action, the avoidance of tax or tax structures, affect what is morally right in the taxpayer's opinion. Apparent structures that do not pay taxes or contributions, either nationally or internationally, are therefore bad for tax morale. This is not the case in view of the turn of the year, namely that the distinction between excise duties on sparkling and light sparkling wines should be abolished by 1 January. It was already decided in 2013. The fundamental review is important, not for specialists, but for credibility and therefore for tax morals in the longer term. The members of my group are known as optimists. We do not despair, we have that in common with the Secretary of State. If I listen to it that way, there is really more support for this simplification, but that only needs to be realised. This may include a shift to local taxes, as this is the end of the 2016 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u89	Mr Backer spoke about insights from the behavioural economy and ideas about the local tax area. It is precisely research in behavioural economy that shows that local taxes are perceived as excessive injustice. There is a distorted picture of what one pays for local taxes. How does Mr Backer look at these insights? What does he think about the research that shows that local taxes are particularly perceived as unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u90	I have not prepared the investigation, but I recall that the perception is that there are more local burdens than there really are. One of the reasons for this may be that the local tax regime is rather limited. I am referring to the waste tax and so on. I imagine the annoyance is concentrated on that. I expect the perception will be better if the citizen of the local government gets a broader package with an overview showing what he has contributed We are talking about a future review. I believe that this idea has also played a part in the discussion of the committee that examined this for the VNG, that is to say the broad committee. This element must, of course, be taken into account in the final review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u91	I have a brief question for Mr Backer. Does he think that the elderly within the municipalities would also be so pleased with what he described, as soon as it is established, at least according to the plans so far, that the increase in income from the municipalities could lead to a lower payment by the Empire to the municipalities, giving the Empire the opportunity to make a few billion tax cuts, but, and now it comes solely to the tax on labour? Older people therefore have to pay more taxes at municipal level, but, as always, they do not receive tax reductions at the state level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr Van Rooijen has already noted injustice before it arose. There's a report on it. That has yet to be carried out. This will, of course, be a very wide-ranging discussion on which several parties will have multiple influences. A balanced package must, of course, be drawn from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u93	If I may conclude from this remark by Mr Backer that it is still a little early and that it must be balanced, I am pleased with this addition, but governance is forward-looking, even now to next year and beyond. As the documents, the opinions and the letter of the cabinet are now there, this room would be used for the tax reduction on labour, although the annex of the Planning Bureau also refers to another variant that appeals to us more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u94	It is not for me to discuss variants that will be discussed in the future when dealing with the 2017 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mr Backer once again, on behalf of D66, wishes to raise municipal taxes, I assume in exchange for a reduction in national taxes. Now the Secretary of State's report, to which he refers, has opted for a variant whereby an equal income tax is introduced for each resident. Mrs Sent has just asked about the psychological impact of such proposals. Does Mr Backer know what happened to the British Government under Prime Minister Thatcher when it went into the municipalities with such a proposal in England, called the poll tax? Could he reflect on the psychological effect that occurred at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you for this question. She is in line with what Mr Van Rooijen said, namely that we need to examine the potential problems and obstacles. He also immediately put the words in my mouth that I want to raise local taxes. I am talking about a revision of the system. If there are multiple taxes, you could say that it is raising, but the goal is that a balanced package will eventually come out, balanced for everyone. Mr Van Rooijen has already warned that there are groups that will pay close attention to this. I have expressed the wish that we should discuss this widely. That is also the outcome of the discussion we had here last year. This is of course not the case here. So we're the last ones on the train to do this. I can't give you more than an advance on this. I do not think that I should go into more detail. I see the Secretary of State listening to this debate. Now I just got the pat on the back part. He doesn't receive much these days. Well, that's what he's done. I am thinking of the DBA legislation and the reorganisation of the Tax Administration. Yet we would fail him, because there are also merits. For example, he has dared to set the top 20 of complex implementable arrangements. The result is limited, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u97	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has dealt with the reorganisation of the Tax Administration!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u98	Sure, sure. I'm gonna go into that later. I haven't finished that subject yet. A number of proposals have been included in the Tax Simplification Act, a patchwork, a thin total, but still: weeded in the garden. It includes, among other things, a section on streamlining the legal protection of citizens in the case of tax surcharges and Recipients. That seems to be a detail, but for many people it is of course important in daily life. That's gonna help. I asked a few questions about it. I had some concerns about it, but I take it from the answer that the complexity and implementation have been taken into account. I would like the Secretary of State to give me the undertaking that he will keep this Chamber informed and inform us in good time, so before the date of entry into force, of the status quo. I understand, but I would like to check this with him, that the date cannot be for the connection of the Tax Administration to the Administration Register, this because of the duty-free foot. I am referring, of course, to the possibility of clearing payments between the recipient's surcharges and tax debts. Finally, my basket is empty with compliments: during the Presidency of the European Council, under the chairmanship of the Secretary of State, significant progress has been made in the EU variant of the "base erosion and profit shifting," i.e. tax avoidance, simply summarized. It came up earlier. In this context, the D66 Group is pleased to note that, although a modest start has been made, the EU directive to combat tax avoidance with No. It was established under the Dutch Presidency and shows that the European Union has a task and that it is also beginning to take on, at last. In that respect, this is really a small milestone or perhaps a real milestone. The procedures launched by the European Commission against Ireland and Apple, against Luxembourg and Amazon and against the Netherlands and Starbucks on State aid show that the only way to effectively combat a race to the bottom in fiscal doucers between Member States is through the European Union. In the highest instance, the Court of Justice can therefore rule on this matter and create a unit of law. Despite political parties such as the PVV and the SP, who claim otherwise, the future of the Netherlands really lies with more Europe instead of less. This is also true in the area of direct taxation. National company systems... let me finish the sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u99	Mr. Köhler!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u100	I wanted to make it worse for Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u101	Let Mr Köhler ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u102	I think there is a misunderstanding with Mr Backer about the attitude of the SP, where he accused us of thinking differently. We do not think otherwise at all about the adoption of the EU directive to which he referred. We certainly do not think differently about the European Commission's initiatives to combat tax avoidance in the Netherlands by calling it state aid. In both cases, we are in favour of the activities of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u103	This addition is pleasing. I actually wanted to finish the quote, because it referred to the words of Professor Meussen of Radboud University. He said that a far-reaching form of harmonisation was inevitable in the long term and that "it is regrettable, but that is the result of the global economy." I wanted to quote that statement from him. He started with two parties and has, as it turns out, wrongly involved the SP. I think it's a win to see that today. Thank you for the interruption. I would like to hear the appreciation of the cabinet of that quote with the correction by Mr Köhler. I'll come back to the flower boxes. At first, the cabinet had been so ill-advised to include in the tax measures the deduction of national monuments and training. The package has been offered to the House of Representatives. I read the report of the legislative consultation in which Minister Bussemaker and the Secretary of State discussed this together with the Finance Committee. I think the Secretary of State or the Cabinet, the Minister of OCW, has saved a very bad day in this house by being wise enough to keep the proposal. If it's up to the fraction of D66, it's also getting set up. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what the status is and what the latest insights are. I'm now switching to some capita selecta. The first is self-employed retirement. The subject has been on the agenda for a while. A dga is often thought of as someone from the Quote 500, but it is, of course, about the backbone of SMEs. Let's move into the entrepreneur with five or ten employees working on the last quarter, realize the annual results and do all his HR business. He will also receive a letter from his ex-wife's lawyer about the pension claims by Christmas. College Van de Ven already talked about it: that is a very complex area. The entrepreneur can't oversee it and neither can his advisor. With this Chamber itself, we have insisted that we do something about it. Is it a real choice that the dga is presented? In the note, the Secretary of State writes that he thinks 36% of the redemption scheme can be used. However, more than half of them do not agree with their ex-partner, because they do not have liquid assets or are not attracted to the redemption scheme. So there is actually already pre-sorted on that discount routing. I don't taste any empathy in the scheme for the image I've outlined. You should make the arrangement so that there is as much chance as possible that the choice will be as real as possible. It's not like it's nothing after all. It is 31 billion in fiscal value, I understand from the pieces. Nothing's happened to it for years, and now it's got to be really fast. I understand that it should not be long, but there is a great deal of pressure on those who are concerned and especially on the wives. It seems in such a scheme the "default," the most obvious choice, but that is probably not the best one. If the redemption scheme is implemented and income tax is levied, is there also a tax in box 3? I think I'm wrong, but I like to hear it. The D66 Group would like to suggest to the Cabinet that, in any event, in addition to the point raised by Mr Van de Ven, the period of the buy-back arrangement should be extended by a second year. I see Mrs Sent wondering about the coverage. It is, of course, estimated tax revenue that is charged to the EMU balance. That looks good. It's different from the burden framework. It's money the state receiver never got. Finally, the Tax Office. Mr Van Rooijen spoke to me just now. I raised this issue during the discussion of the 2016 Tax Plan. We were supposed to have an oral meeting with the Secretary of State about the IRS. That consultation did not take place for all kinds of reasons. There are three key questions we would like to discuss. What has gone wrong with the fact that the public service parade has been so ruined and what can we learn from it? Is the Tax Administration now and in the future prepared for its tasks and what is a realistic investment agenda? Do political decision-making and legislation keep pace and where are current bottlenecks and bottlenecks in the medium term? I hold the Secretary of State to his commitment to have a conversation with us. I know he'll keep this one. It will probably be the first quarter of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u104	I have a question because Mr Backer used the words 'finally'. So I thought he was almost at the end of his speech. Let me just say what else I had to ask for. At the beginning of his speech, Mr Backer spoke about income figures which sometimes showed remarkable leaps. I was eager to listen until he started explaining what he meant by that, but it stayed there. I filed a motion during the General Political Reviews on those strange jumps. That motion was not supported by the D66 Group at the time. That is her right, but I am looking forward to the appreciation of the investigation that has been announced on the occasion of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u105	I read the research setup. It has just been sent to us for this debate. I think it's a very solid plan. I do not expect Mr Schalk to ask me to anticipate that. The conclusions have yet to be drawn. Maybe that's the answer to his first sentence about the weird jumps. I deliberately did not go into all the points that have been partly highlighted by other speakers, because I do not think we are going to solve them with some corrections. We have to solve them by having a much bigger discussion about what is just, which still rewards by performance, which takes due account of individuality and shared households, and age. All these things need to be dealt with. There's something else. We see that two tax plans now take place in succession. We're all in the middle of important but incidental interventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u106	I think I can follow a very long way from Mr Backer's speech. We certainly need to talk about system reforms and the like. I do think it is important for him to indicate that he is looking forward to the research as it is now. Apparently, there are parts that don't look righteous anymore. Let me put it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-13-eerstekamer-3.u107	That will show the outcome of the investigation or not. There was a reason for the investigation and we'll see. I said finally, but I have a few things to note. I was talking about the IRS. I read that 60 FTEs are in the process of assessing the model agreements for the DBA. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether permanent jobs, flex workers orzzp's. Are there any employees who first used the departure scheme and then were hired, or is it regular staff? I was talking about tax morals. If there is anything, other than what others do, disastrous for morality, that is one's own experience with the Tax Administration. This applies not only to people with less digital skills, but also to citizens who ask a telephone question and find themselves in the complexity of the attacks and surcharges. The Ombudsman and the Consumers' Association reported on this. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what actions have been followed. Finally: almost finalizing. What does the chairman of the VVD election programme know more about the digital declaration than we do? His new programme advocates the return of the blue envelope. Does he know anything we don't know about the execution of the digital declaration? In that case, I'd like to know. What is the government's view of this proposal? Finishing, after the capita selecta and overlooking the whole package: we can still find the garden path, but with just maintenance we don't get there.
