ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. We would like to set up our response as follows. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will address the questions that have been asked about Turkey, unless they are directly related to the issue of migration, and then we are talking about the issues of'resettlement' and'readmission'. He will answer all the other questions, including the question of accession, visa freedom, the situation in Syria, the situation with the Kurds and so on. The same applies to the various questions raised about NATO action, including the plans for NATO to become active in the Aegean Sea. I confine myself to all the questions that have been asked about the UK and the general questions about migration. I'll start with the United Kingdom. I think it's important to see if we can get out tomorrow and Friday. I don't think that's too soon. You need to take the momentum when it's there. There's momentum now. There's been a lot of hard work. I think it's possible to get out in the next two days, but I'm not sure. Let's try to fight that for each other. Several questions have been asked about this, including the amendment of the Treaty. Are you going to use it for other issues that the Netherlands still wants? There will be no treaty change specifically for the UK package. However, it is agreed that this package will be included in a subsequent treaty amendment and that it will be incorporated into the Convention where necessary. If that is the case, we will, of course, also determine our Dutch commitment. The various wishes that live in the Netherlands will, of course, be included. Then I come to the question of the frontiers of European integration. There is now a discussion about staying with the European Union of the United Kingdom. In several areas good decisions are taken on the division of tasks between the Union and the Member States, for example on the role of national parliaments, but also on the introduction of a so-called subsidiarity mechanism. It is also said about ever closer union. In view of all these issues, there may not be a very fundamental discussion on whether or not to extend European integration, but it seems that it is moving in a very pragmatic direction, which I believe has broad support in this Chamber. Which brings me to the question of that ever closer union. I've said that it's a bit of the "dead parrot" from Monty Python: that parrot that's not alive anymore. The owner of that parrot goes to the pet store, where the owner of that store says, no, he's still alive. It's an expression that once came into it. For me, it has a symbolic significance, but also a value in terms of substance, in terms of emphasising the importance of peaceful cooperation. But something has emerged as if it is an inevitability that Europe always integrates further. I think that the texts that are now there are good texts because people who are in favour of further integration can accept them, just like the people who say that there are limits to integration. I think this is a very pragmatic outcome. Then there's the eurozone. I think the direction of the compromise is workable. Non-eurozone countries can raise issues at the level of the European Council, but this does not necessarily mean that there is a right of veto because the European Council decides everything unanimously. Here too, I feel that there is a good, pragmatic solution. Several questions have been asked about the issue of in-work benefits and the safeguard mechanism. The UK has been asked to comply. The Commission currently considers that this is plausible on the basis of the current information on net migration figures. There is no score card that says exactly: if A, B and C and questions 8, 9 and 10 have been answered with "yes," then so be it. The Commission therefore estimates that it is likely that the UK will comply. There is now no idea whether other Member States are eligible for this. In addition, the fairly specific UK legislation on top-ups is quite unique in Europe when you are working in Britain. In the light of my brief inappropriate comment towards the Labour Party, I say: yes, this has to be worked out in secondary legislation. Then it becomes clear and will undoubtedly become more clear what we are going to test. There are undoubtedly limits to the application of the guarantee mechanism. We are open to having this option in exceptional situations, but, of course, the exact length of the application and duration of the exclusion still has to be worked out. The basic principle for the cabinet is that the free movement of workers is minimally harmed. It is not an exact science, but I expect that tomorrow we will land somewhere in the name of a number of years, which will ultimately allow the UK and the other 27 Member States to say: well, that's how we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u2	The Prime Minister says he is open to applying this in other countries, but what will he do? I heard the VVD say: it's equal monks, equal hoods. If the emergency braking procedure applies to England, it will have to apply to other countries as well. Is that also the cabinet's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u3	Yeah, but this is pretty specific linked to the in-work benefits. You've hardly got it anywhere in Europe. The second limitation is that it is said that these should initially be countries that have not initially taken a seven-year grace period to give full access in the context of the accession of Eastern European countries. I am referring to the 3+2+2 we used. The UK is one of them. This also applies, I say from my mind, to Sweden and I mean Ireland. They have priority. However, it is not the case that other countries cannot make use of it. But it's all pretty theoretical because almost no country has this crazy system. I will come to that in a moment, following questions from the Labour Party. It was once conceived by a Labour government there. I think they're getting away from the whole system of in-work benefits step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u4	The Prime Minister just said that the Commission believes that the UK is in line with it. She doesn't have a score card system or anything else to measure it with. Then we do not really know what we are going to do with it and how many years we are giving the British the opportunity for the exception. The Prime Minister mentioned the number x in that context. May I conclude that it's still a little vague?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yeah, sure. That is because the length of the application is still under negotiation tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. The Netherlands will try to make a landing that is acceptable to all 28 Member States. So I expect that to come out somewhere in the middle of all the wishes. With regard to its application, the Commission is now saying that it is likely that Britain will be eligible for it. Then, of course, there is the question of what it will look like. That's what's in the secondary regulations that still have to be made. This will be further developed. However, all this is not yet there. Now, of course, we are only talking about the contours. We do not have any detailed proposals yet; they will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u6	If I understand correctly, this plausibility and the phrase 'the Commission believes' are an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u7	Yeah, but that's up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u8	Yes, it stipulates that, but if I understand correctly, this can only be done on the basis of secondary legislation which is still in force, after which it will be measured whether it does and whether the UK does indeed meet that criterion and the conditions for drawing the emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u9	The system works in such a way that the Commission has to say whether it believes that the UK is in line with it. The Commission has now said: looking through the hair of the eye at what is meant here, we believe that the UK is eligible for this. That is politically relevant. This applies only in the case of exceptional inflow, disproportionate recourse to this type of social security instruments, serious and sustainable labour market problems or excessive pressure on public services. That is what needs to be looked at. This is, moreover, the normal emergency measure contained in many European regulations, so this is a well-known figure and not a new rule in that sense. It is a temporary exception on the basis of objective criteria to be developed. In the end, the Council must decide whether it is allowed. In other words, national parliaments are also indirectly involved. The principle of equal pay for equal work is not under discussion. What the Commission has now said is: looking at what is agreed, we believe that the UK is in line with this. That's all I have; this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u10	I am rather concerned that the Prime Minister will be so open in the discussion tomorrow, with some kind of stretchiness based on the feeling that secondary legislation will still be in place, that he will actually agree with everything and that we can all correct it a bit later in secondary legislation. If you conclude a deal with 28 countries on such a sensitive package, is that deal really important for the further development of that package? Surely we cannot now say to the British: we agree on the main points and we will come back to the precise consequences? You can't do that, can you? Why don't you push us in a funnel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u11	In what is ahead, it is quite specific under which circumstances there may be excessivity. Of course, it still needs to be worked out in more detail, but on the basis of what is now going on, the Commission believes that the UK is in line with this. That is, of course, politically relevant to the British Government, also in order to be able to issue the referendum, but that must of course be worked out. That is always the case; these are just normal European procedures. You make a number of basic agreements if you succeed, we will do so tomorrow, and they will naturally have to go into more detailed legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u12	Does the Prime Minister see the danger of a fairly flexible agreement with the British? Within a short time, 27 other Member States will then be knocking on the door thinking: let's go for a spin. Does the Prime Minister see that danger, and is he going to do something tomorrow to prevent that danger? He can do that by a) holding his foot where it goes too far and b) saying to his political friend Cameron: go, when the package comes, full the farmer in your own country to convince your people. Otherwise we still have nothing at the end of the ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u13	The second is certainly the case. On the one hand, it is unlikely that many other countries will be eligible, because it is a fairly specific British system. I shall come to that in a moment on the question put by Mrs Maij of the Labour Party. It is a quite unique British system that you have a job and yet still qualify for all kinds of additional benefits. We don't know that around here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u14	I cannot see from the package whether the proposals that have been put forward could be detrimental not only to workers from the Visegrád countries because they are treated differently from British workers but also to employers who could benefit from working for them. In other words, employers lose less to them than if they hire British workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u15	It's a government subsidy on wages. I shall return to Mrs Maij's question later. The employer doesn't have any fun. He just pays what he has to pay and because he doesn't pay enough, that person gets an extra charge. That's how the British system works. Now I come to Mrs Maij's question, which I have already announced a number of times. The current British minimum wage is not a "living wave" as mentioned in the British debate. This is also recognised as such by the British Government. Last year a cabinet decision was made to go to such a living wave in 2019 in stages. At the same time, the British want to change the social security system, including these in-work benefits. This system comes from the period of Blair's previous Labour Government. At that time, this social security system was chosen in conjunction with a relatively low minimum wage in order to promote employment, as Mrs Maij suspected. This has undoubtedly had a positive impact on employment. We can set up a whole tree here about whether we like it, but that's how it works in England. I see that Mr Verhoeven is wondering: what is he saying? I'm just explaining how the British social security system works. We can't argue about that, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u16	We're not gonna fight. I hope that tomorrow you will fight with the other 27 Heads of Government and negotiate a little heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u17	I do it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u18	In my view, this raises an additional question: if the Prime Minister can tell so many beautiful stories about the British system, a system that the British now want to get rid of, why would a detour via a brexi-refrequentum threat be necessary to get rid of? I just don't get it. The British must be able to arrange that themselves, right? You don't have to do that through a Brexit, do you? Surely there is also an element of wider application in Europe, which can also apply to other Member States? That's unmistakable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u19	If Mr Verhoeven wanted to introduce such a system in the Netherlands, the answer is yes, but I do not think there are such proposals, even from my own party. It seems to me that she could come up with the first thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u20	Tomorrow, 28 Member States are going to talk about a heavy package by the British to prevent a Brexit. One of the far-reaching proposals in that package is to abolish and restrict the rights of migrant workers. That is not nothing, because it interferes with freedom of movement. Now the Prime Minister says: things are not going that fast, the British have a system, and that only applies to the British; don't worry. I am concerned after this answer. I think it goes beyond just the situation in Britain. I expect it to affect the other countries and therefore we must be careful not to set a precedent on this. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u21	How many countries have in-work benefits? Almost none. Hardly anyone knows that system. It's a very strange system. Mrs Maij was right to point the finger there. It is good for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u22	Why should Cameron abolish this through a Brexit mechanism? Why doesn't he just abolish it in his own country if it's unique to the British? The Prime Minister hasn't explained that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u23	I already have my hands full with this government; I cannot go back to the British Government. Now let Cameron do his own negotiations. He's very happy about this. It seems acceptable to Eastern Europe under a number of conditions. We haven't quite figured it out yet. I will answer the question about the force field, but it is my assessment that we can get out of this and that this form can also be used by the Eastern Europeans. We do not have the system, we are not going to introduce it, the British are happy with it and Eastern Europe seems to accept it. I would say, let's open the stock market, put this in it and walk away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u24	I suggest that the Prime Minister continue answering the questions. If a question remains, there can still be interrupting. Is that an idea, Mrs. Maij? You look so worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u25	I want to mark one more thing, if you don't mind. The Prime Minister refers a number of times to my party and also says jokes: it is good for employment. They are very low wage costs for companies. Let us be honest, wage costs are kept very low by this system, perhaps unnaturally low, which may make it easy for these companies. That is what I meant by the comment on indirect subsidies. Companies are subsidised in this way; they can keep costs low and workers do not pay liveable wages. I do not think that is a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u26	In my view, there are no proposals to take over the British system, which the British themselves are slowly moving away from. I can think of more systems that are good for employment, but will not receive immediate support. I've already said something about the force field. If you look at economic governance, and above all at the scope for economic policy coordination, you will see that the euro area countries are certainly very alert to this. I trust that the countries of southern and central Europe will pay particular attention to the discussion we have just had. I expect these issues to be dealt with in the coming days. I think we can figure it out. Mr Mulder asked what would happen if the referendum went wrong. Let us not talk about this any more, because it will of course be fine on 23 June, the date that is now in mind in the United Kingdom. However, if things are not going well, I agree with all those, including Mr Mulder, who say that there are some nice elements in this package. These are matters which the Netherlands also considers important: the strengthening of the position of national parliaments, for example. Then we will have to see how we can keep it. We will therefore be committed to this. Tomorrow it will not be possible to say to colleagues that we are doing it anyway, because the package as a whole for Eastern and Southern Europe is really difficult to digest in parts. It is acceptable to them, however, because they believe that they also have an interest if the UK remains involved. There is also a reasonable compromise. We do not expect all 27 other countries to say that they are going to do it anyway, but I see the commitment to find out which good elements can be preserved. If this were to happen, I would need the support of the Chamber to convince the European Parliament and other countries and their party members in those countries. It has been said: less rules, fine, but what about the emissions of cars? We support the proposal to reduce the burden at European level. This is also in line with the commitment of the Dutch Presidency. The question of which rules is currently not addressed. This should be discussed in the implementation phase. It will not be an arbitrary choice and national parliaments will play an important role in this. It is well known that it is not the cabinet's commitment to delete rules such as those on car emissions. That's the point of the less rules. Then I'll come to the migration. A number of questions have been asked about this. Let me say two introductory sentences. This follows on from the debate we had on Thursday. We are currently working on several "filters," as I have just mentioned. The first filter is spending well on the 3 billion of Turkish Refugee Facility in Turkey itself, on education for young people and children and on good facilities, so that people stay there. The second filter is to maximise Turkey's incentive to ensure that the entire business model on the Turkish west coast, whereby smugglers cross people by boat to Greece, is broken. There is another very important filter, but you can only turn that filter on if the influx from Turkey to Greece goes towards zero. That is the filter where you could "lift" groups of Syrian asylum seekers from Turkey to the European Union. That current must have gone towards zero. If that doesn't happen, you can't turn on that filter. That was all discussed last Thursday. That is not a tragedy; it is not the only filter, but it would be a very shame, because it is a very important filter. The next filter is the Balkans. I will answer a number of questions about this in a moment. You can see that the Balkans are some kind of backstop for what you're doing on the Turkish side. That's where the developments are moving pretty fast now. I will come back to this in more detail when I answer a number of questions: what, for example, did the Visegrád four discuss last Monday and what did the Austrians do yesterday? All of that has its meaning, too. If Turkey is making things more difficult and if we cannot turn on the filter of resolution because the current is falling too little and if the Turks on the Turkish west coast do too little to actually stop those boats, then the pressure will of course be entirely on the current filters in the Western Balkans. They'll have to work. That's about the ratio. The position of Greece, which is in between, is of course important. I shall come back to all this when I go into the more detailed questions. First an easy one: what about the relocations in the Netherlands? On 15 January we received 50 people from Italy and 50 from Greece this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u27	Before we go to the detailed questions, I would like to comment on the general part. The Prime Minister says: if it is disappointing what is being stopped by Turkey. This should also mean that we will not start accession negotiations with Turkey in April.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u28	The accession negotiations will be dealt with entirely by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I am fully aware of my answer to the questions. The room invited us both. We have just made a division of labour. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb die vraag hier niet liggen, maar die zal de heer Koenders met zijn gebruikelijke deskundigheid zo beantwoorden.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u29	That division is up to the cabinet. I'll just say that the Prime Minister is the one who had a lot of those conversations, like last week. I'll ask you one more question. These accession negotiations start in April. This will undoubtedly also play a role in Europe. The Prime Minister has something to do with that. To what extent does the current Turkish bombing of Kurds in Syria change this picture? That whole palette changes, doesn't it? It can't be that we just, in the normal way, continue with accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u30	Again, we're both invited. We have divided the tasks. All these questions will be answered by the Foreign Minister. If I had done that already, one ruler could have come here, but we should have agreed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u31	That is true on the one hand. On the other hand, the Prime Minister is now asking the most complex questions: how are the accession negotiations going forward? We shall now proceed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, while the Prime Minister will be discussing this in the Council tomorrow. I will put the detailed question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister what it does not provide enough for Turkey to reopen the accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u32	I really refer to the previous answer. Otherwise, we really need to discuss how the Chamber and the government work. If we are here with more rulers, we will divide the answer. I am not going to answer the Foreign Minister now. Anything he says in a moment, he says with my full approval, enthusiasm and satisfaction, and that will be stated in the same way tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr Buma, if it is not enough, you will have the opportunity to come back to this after the Foreign Minister has spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u34	Of course we have to accept that, but it is strange that the Prime Minister passes the general question, which I think is on all our lips, to the Foreign Minister, namely: what does everything he says? The talks on starting accession negotiations as of April will take place tomorrow. The Prime Minister should simply answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u35	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u36	That is also a very good point from Mr Van Haersma Buma. I usually do, but I really quit because I noticed that I am then completely in the answer, with all the follow-up questions from Mr Van Haersma Buma and with the questions that some others are sure to think of afterwards. It is really up to the Foreign Minister to give that answer, with my full agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u37	That's the prime minister's job, then you'll have questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u38	Sure, and I really like that, too. Delegation is also important in my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u39	Let me return to the easy question about the redistribution of 160,000 refugees. The Prime Minister said we received 50 from Italy and we received 50 from Greece. That adds up to 100. Is it true that out of the more than 7,000 people who would resettle the Netherlands from the countries that are in total defect, 100 have now been re-established?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u40	Yeah, just because people aren't registered in the places they should be. The hotspots are malfunctioning. So you could actually say very cynically that the people are already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u41	I don't understand the Prime Minister's last response. People are already here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u42	The idea was that there would be a good system of registration and reception capacity in Italy and Greece. You could then lift people from there to other Member States. That means for the Netherlands, but also for other countries, decent numbers; our share of the 160,000. If the hotspots in those countries are not functioning and people simply go through the Western Balkans and Austria to Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, you could say, if you are a little cynical, that they are already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u43	Surely I do not have to explain to the Prime Minister that the essence of this issue, which some people call an asylum crisis and which others call a migration issue, is that you have to cooperate with each other? If we in the Netherlands do not take our responsibility, it does not give us a pass to say to Greece: arrange it; build that fence; stop it; take care of the 7,000 people who come to you at times per day? We're six months ahead and we're still leaving it with the 100 people we've taken over from them. That's not how it works internationally, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u44	That's how it works when they're not there. It's hard for me to bring people here if they're not taken care of there. Then I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u45	I support Mr Van Haersma Buma's plea when he says that the Prime Minister is about Turkey's role in the broad sense, because it is about so many aspects. Anyway, we're gonna have to wait for the answer. I have another question to the Prime Minister about Greece and the three-month deadline. The Prime Minister said earlier that it would actually have to be settled within three weeks if we were to calculate from now on. So that's three months now. We've heard previous deadlines, so how hard are they three months? Should all these hotspots indeed be for each other, not only in terms of registrations but also in terms of reception? That is the most important missing point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u46	We're a little ahead of the answer, but that's not a point. As far as Greece is concerned, of course, it has been difficult for a long time. You can see they're taking a spurt now. There are now a few hotspots operational. I spoke to the Greek Prime Minister yesterday, who said he expected four out of five to be very soon operational with a reception capacity for 50,000 people. Of course, we still have to consider whether that will really be the case. Firstly, under Article 26 of the Schengen Convention, the Commission is urged to consider whether a country can remain a member or not. On the basis of a rigorous evaluation, she has already said that it does not look good. I myself say that in three months' time the world will have completely changed. We're really gonna have to try this in the next few weeks before spring. That's why I was talking about the six-to-eight-week period. This is not a date fixation by mid-March; it is likely that the weather will improve by then, and if the weather improves, there is the risk of a greater influx of refugees from Turkey to these regions, via Greece and across the Western Balkans. It is therefore crucial that Greece works well. It's getting better now. I do not have the luxury of grumbling about whether or not it should be in Schengen in three months' time. With the actions of Austria yesterday, you can already see that it is the other way round: the countries in the Western Balkans are slowly building dams and blockades themselves. This is because there is too much flow from Greece across the Western Balkans. One may wonder whether Greece is or is not a Schengen member in three months' time, but these countries are already de facto concerned about whether Greece can deliver. There is another issue here. The Foreign Minister's trip to Macedonia and Greece was about this, as was this week's visit by Minister Ploumen to several Western Balkan countries and Slovenia. If all this continues, if these countries are to close their borders more and more, can this be done as far as possible within a European framework? That question is complicated, because some of these countries are not members of the European Union. However, you can of course try to work on this with Europe. That is also one of the messages of both ministers these days. And if this would lead people to sit on the Greek side of the Macedonian-Greek border, how do you provide a good shelter in Greece? It is quite clear that countries such as the Netherlands, Austria and Germany have always offered to help in all these situations. There's no other way; you can't let the Greeks get away with this. But it's what's happening now. That is why it is so important for the agreements to work with Turkey; then it stops there, or at least as much as possible. And if that flow continues, you should try to do the various initiatives for the Western Balkans within Visegrád 4, so what Austria is doing, as much as possible, in a European context and therefore on a common European basis. That is what the Netherlands is doing now. I do that in the telephone circuit and physically it is being discussed through the discussions that ministers Ploumen and Koenders have had over the last few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u47	The Prime Minister himself has already indicated that if we take another three months to get those hotspots done, including the reception and selection, it will no longer be necessary, because the borders will then be tight when it comes to the Visegrád countries. That's what they're making these agreements about right now. There is now some contact with Greece, I understand. At least we can't afford those three months. The Prime Minister said last week that it must be done within three or four weeks. Is he going to give the pressure and assistance to Greece to get it done faster? We have given 3 billion to the Turks, but is it not much wiser to release much more resources from the European Union for this reception? Registration is of course important, but we have seen how things are going on Chios; they register neatly, but then it is: there is the ferry to Athens. In addition, there is the selection and reception in Greece. If that is not achieved, all borders will be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u48	I don't think money is the first problem. By the way, these 3 billion go not to Turkey but to projects for the benefit of refugees in the camps and communities in the south of Turkey and therefore do not go to the Turkish Government. The point raised by Mr Voordewind is quite right. So that's what we're betting on. I do that in my conversations. Bert Koenders spoke to the Greek Prime Minister for two and a half hours last Sunday. You can also really see that things are moving and that people are developing things with much more urgency. The military also has a much greater role to play. This is in itself a well-functioning part of the Greek state system. In a state where mainly implementation capacity can still gain strength here and there, you can see that the armed forces do indeed do so and really are made meters. For example, the Netherlands helps on Chios. So we're doing everything we can, but we can't take over. I can't go to Athens tomorrow and say: hand over the keys. We have to work through the Greek authorities. There is real progress, but I fully agree with Mr Voordewind that this is a very important point. Greece plays a crucial role as a turntable from Turkey to the Western Balkans.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u49	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u50	Partly at this point, because I've lost order. The Prime Minister does not seem to answer questions about Turkey, but if we ask him questions about Greece, he will answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u51	I have also indicated exactly that in advance. I'll repeat exactly what I said. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will address all questions about Turkey except on resolution and re-admission, which I shall address. He will answer all questions about accession, visa liberalisation, Syria, the Kurds and so on, as well as questions about NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u52	What an interesting note you have there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u53	If that's the separation between the answer, then I'm really objecting. The Prime Minister will be on TV every day from January to talk about Turkey and about what is not good for it. The Prime Minister himself received the Prime Minister of Turkey here last week. About a day later, Turkey starts bombing the Kurds. That's not what the Prime Minister wants to talk about here. Who went to Greece last week? The Secretary of State. Who was talking to the Greek Prime Minister? The Secretary of State. And that's not what the Secretary of State is going to talk about right now. I just don't want it that way. So I ask the Prime Minister how he assesses the fact that he is talking to the Prime Minister of Turkey last week about reopening accession negotiations while the same country is going to bomb the Kurds we are helping in Iraq a few days later and then the Prime Minister wants to talk about accession negotiations again in April. What does this mean for the start of accession negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u54	There is an assumption error in Mr Buma's question. I have not spoken with the Turkish Prime Minister about the start of accession negotiations. We have only talked about one aspect of accession, as I told you last Thursday, and that is that developments in Cyprus are moving in the right direction and that if they continue to do so, which we all sincerely hope will have its own significance for the accession negotiations. We have not discussed accession negotiations in those talks. The talks took three or four hours to detail the whole question of spending resources in Turkey on the reception of refugees, the question of the business model of boat smugglers and the withdrawal of these boats, and the question of re-admission and resettlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u55	But you probably did not talk about the fact that Turkey would start bombing the Kurds in Syria about a day later? So my question is not going to go into detail, but I have one main question: what does this mean for the agreement with Turkey to proceed with the accession negotiations in April? This has to have consequences, right? That is the question I am asking the Prime Minister: does this have any consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u56	Mr Buma continues to connect dossiers. I'll leave that to his address. It is the Commission that ultimately, following a structured process, should ensure it and consider which chapters can or cannot be opened, and on what criteria. It shall include all relevant facts and data. The only link that Mr Buma knows, and everyone knows that between the debate on migration and the accession negotiations, is that in November the European Council agreed to give new energy to the accession process. It has also been stipulated that we will not harm the criteria and all conditions in any way and that we will not take shortcuts. This also applies to visa liberalisation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u57	There's something I want to say. I am not asking this question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as President of the European Union. But what does the Prime Minister of the Netherlands think of the reopening of negotiations with Turkey at the time when Turkey is taking action in Iraq, where Kurds are being trained, by bombing the same Kurds and then asking for the negotiations to be reopened? What is the position of the Dutch Government on this? Can we, or does the Dutch Government say tomorrow: wait!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u58	The Dutch Government has the view that we have processes and procedures in Europe. If everyone goes right through that at the wrong time, then what Mr Buma would do if he were in my place would be detrimental to an orderly decision-making. It is primarily up to the Commission to prepare which chapters can or cannot be opened and to involve all relevant information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u59	That's a little strange. At the moment when the Chamber wants to talk about certain dossiers in isolation, the Prime Minister always says that we need to see it in conjunction because it's all about each other. Then he gives a lecture on European politics and the fact that everything is connected. And then we connect it once, but then it has to break up again. That's confusing. But if the Prime Minister says that the discussion with Davutoglu is not about those things, I would like to answer my question to make the report public. I would very much like to have the report of that conversation, for the simple reason that the aftertaste of Davutoglu and Rutte was so different. In response to questions from Mr Buma, too, I am beginning to wonder more and more about what has been discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u60	Of such conversations, only reports come to the Chamber if it is known in advance by all the interlocutors. So we don't do that. I would like to know from Mr Verhoeven why he is so concerned about the various readings of what has been discussed there, so that I can get rid of that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u61	I'd love to. Mr Davutoglu came out and said: great steps have been taken in the accession process. The Dutch government says every time that there is no such thing. If the aftertaste is so different and if there are so many different hooks and eyes on such a file that we cannot all connect with each other, and if we cannot therefore ask whether it is all related and whether it is being negotiated, then I think it is very logical that we want to know exactly what has been said and not said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u62	And rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u63	And so Mr Buma asks a question, but then he doesn't get an answer. And the Prime Minister who had the conversation refers to his foreign minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u64	This is a very good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u65	That's nice to hear, but I'm not standing here to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u66	But would Mr Verhoeven also like to hear the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u68	Then I'm gonna try. The question was even so good...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u69	A review of the Prime Minister is too much honor for me. I just want a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u70	It's never good, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u71	If Mr Verhoeven asks me a good question, he will be complimented. It's a really good question. The question is even so good that last Thursday it was discussed in detail in the debate on migration precisely on this point: the press conference, what he said, how I reacted and the whole context. I can refer Mr Verhoeven to that part of the Acts. We talked about this matter for half an hour. The fact that we talked about it for so long last week shows how good Mr Verhoeven's question is. Spot on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u72	Yes, there was a detailed debate on this point last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u73	It's a good question, but the answer is: with a brat in the reeds. I have more of a point of order. I think the Prime Minister is using false arguments to say that he is not answering this question. I can very well recall the debate here with, among other things, the Minister of the Interior, to whom the Chamber asked a lot of questions, but where the Prime Minister, as Prime Minister, took the space to answer all the questions. That's where the Home Secretary was sitting! It also happens regularly that we invite several members of the government to the Chamber and that only the Prime Minister answers the questions. I have to agree with him on that. But if that is never the case in one debate, then that is when it comes to the European summit. That's what the Secretary of State is standard for. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister simply to answer questions put by my colleague. I don't think he should get away with this. I'm asking you to do the same. This really is a debate in which both directors are always present and I think it is relevant that my colleague receives an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u74	The good thing is, I just did. I have just answered Mr Buma's question in detail. I have already answered this specific question about Turkey and the Kurds, within my general view that we have a division of roles and that this is actually part of the Foreign Minister. In fact, I agree with Mr Klaver: that was even more appropriate than my initial reaction. So I've already done that. I come to the issue of the Visegrád 4. In fact, thanks to the various interruptions, I have already dealt with these questions. You saw that the statement of Visegrád 4, which came out last Monday, was a lot more moderate than initially seemed in the preliminary phase. Of course, there has also been a lot of consultation in all kinds of places. This does not, of course, alter the fact that they are also very concerned about the risk of putting enormous pressure on Europe once again if the currents start in spring. All our efforts are aimed at bringing these concerns more into a European framework. There are also steps taken. I'm not completely hopeless about that. That will be important tomorrow. At the same time, you'll see the following. Austria has said that it has not only an upper limit, but also daily quotas. Then you're not just turning the dominoes from Macedonia, but in fact from Austria the other way, because that naturally leads to reactions in Slovenia, Croatia and possibly further south of the Western Balkans. We don't know how that works out. That will undoubtedly be discussed tomorrow. I must say that the journey was also important in that sense. We have also sent a signal to the Greek authorities that we are prepared to help immediately if the sum total of all these cases would result in enormous pressure in northern Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u75	Have all the questions on this point been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u76	I'm gonna check it out. I've answered all the questions thanks to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u77	The Minister says the questions have been answered. But what does the Dutch Government now look at the initiative of those four? All the Prime Minister says is that it will be discussed tomorrow. But what will the Netherlands do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u78	The initiative of the four is a non-European initiative. If you take the sec, as it took place in the course of Monday, my concern was that it was an initiative of four countries that did not take into account the problems that would arise on the Greek side if the border between Macedonia and Greece were actually locked down. The positive thing is that the countries said on Monday that they have intentions, but first look at how the various initiatives around Turkey, the filters in Turkey, work. The second thing we have done is give the signal to the Greek Government that we are ready with other countries to help that country. In the meantime, we are working behind the scenes to see if we can move the concerns and views of the Visegrád countries on a more European basis. We have a little more time for that now. That was across the south side, the Macedonian side. Since yesterday, it has been added that the Austrian Government has decided to work on the north side, if you go all the way up the Balkans to the north, with day numbers and so on. This can also have an impact on the countries of the Western Balkans. There is intensive contact about that too. On Sunday I called the chancellor of Austria. Yesterday, Mr Dijkhoff, the Secretary of State for Migration, spoke extensively with his Austrian colleague, so that we can coordinate this as best we can. You see great concern in many countries. This leads to initiatives. They all have an impact on each other, because of course it is always a domino system: when one country does something, it has an impact on another country. I believe that we, as President, have a duty to make every effort to make this type of initiative a more European one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u79	I am still looking at how I can judge the Prime Minister's answer without mentioning the word "Turkey." There is a country bordering Greece, and the Prime Minister himself speaks of it as the filter, and that is not working enough. We now see that the number is falling, but it is still thousands and it is still five times as much as in February last year. How does the Prime Minister assess the fact that Turkey seemed to want a moment last week, but then does not do what has been agreed: to reduce the numbers? 'Cause if they show us, we have a whole different story, but they don't. Is it not the case that the Prime Minister has to acknowledge that Turkey is playing its own game and that we have to move much earlier towards a solution such as the four Visegrád countries and Greece outside Schengen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u80	I don't understand the latter. What's the point of being able to say to Greece: 'Nice poo, we put you outside Schengen'? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u81	Agreed. I'll leave that out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u82	Okay. If the Visegrád 4 closes the Macedonian border and perhaps also Albania and Bulgaria, then you have de facto an extra-Schengen site of Greece. What is the point of rubbing that in their face? What is the point of not allowing businessmen from Greece to travel through airports within the Schengen system? I don't see the added value of that. What's the point of having that rearguard fight? I'm gonna head back to the main line. I share the concern expressed in Mr Buma's question about the results of what Turkey has shown so far. That's not enough. We had a whole discussion here last week about the fact that I praised my Turkish colleague for the fact that these numbers were low for a number of days. That may have had to do with the weather. That's what I said last week. It may also have had to do with the far-reaching initiatives taken by the Turks, with photographic material and so on, on the west coast and/or with Turkish intervention. That's what the Turks showed us the Saturday before. At least I said at the time: whatever it is, it shows that those numbers can be reduced. UNHCR has also reported in recent days that these numbers are much lower. And it seems that this happens in better weather. However, we do not know exactly, and UNHCR really has to say that. But we don't know if it's working enough. Is it enough? Not Anyway. The numbers in January were far above those of January last year. In February the numbers are lower, but they are still much higher than we are used to. So more needs to be done. That's why you can't start a resolution now. You cannot say now, based on these numbers: I am going to bring people from Turkey to Europe. We can't do that until we get that zero in sight. It doesn't have to be literally zero, but you have to be able to see it. And with these high numbers, I can't see that zero yet. And if you start "resettling" now, you get an irregular and a regular stream next to each other. I agree with Mr Buma that it is still insufficient. But I don't agree with his conclusion that you should say, "Never mind." So we will continue to work hard, again tomorrow at a meeting with the Turkish Prime Minister and a number of countries at the Austrian Embassy, to make these agreements with Turkey a success. Until our last breath, I'd like to say dramatic. But at the same time, we have to complain about the question: what are the back-ups, not plans, but what is the back-up to the proper functioning of Turkey, and what would be the main show if Turkey did not work at all? So you come to the Western Balkans. For this, many initiatives are taking place in which the Netherlands considers it important that this should not be at the expense of Greece. Greece is currently facing a serious economic crisis and would therefore face a very serious humanitarian crisis. I don't think that's justified. The country's not stable enough for that. We must then help the Greeks to respond to humanitarian needs, to build camps and so on. Then they'll have to accept that. At the same time, we must ensure that what is happening in the Balkans is well coordinated, that it is not just a few countries that are active there, but that we do so together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u83	The Prime Minister quite rightly reiterates that it must eventually move towards zero. He's saying it now in parliament. That, of course, is where the question begins to arise: what exactly does he mean by "direction zero" and when are we going to see that? It was six to eight weeks. The question is, are we gonna make it? But it'll have to be before the summer. When is this "direction zero" for the Prime Minister now a serious benchmark?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u84	Whether he does it on purpose, and then I say: I did it as an opposition leader too, or that he does it by mistake, I'm going to sort out exactly what's going on. The six to eight weeks are due to the fact that we need to be prepared for a large stream of refugees in the spring, because we can no longer cope with such a large stream in this part of Europe, at least in the Netherlands. Other countries have to decide that for themselves, but I have the impression that they feel the same. How are you gonna prevent that? Is that a promise? No, that's not a promise, but it's a statement. That "direction zero" has to do with one of the instruments you can use to slow down that current. That is the instrument of resolution in combination with a dramatic reduction in the numbers crossing from Turkey to Greece. We can do that by re-admission. If that instrument does not work, then it can be because the Turks successfully intervene on the Turkish west coast. Or it's a combination of those two. If either is not possible, then you cannot "resette" and then that instrument cannot be used. That doesn't mean that it doesn't slow down the whole flow, because we still have plenty of other filters, but it is a very important filter that would be mortally sinful if you couldn't use it. So that "direction zero" has to do with one filter to get a problem under control. The deadline of six to eight weeks is not a promise, but a statement that, when spring comes, we must be ready to be able to control a possible increase in the number of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u85	The Prime Minister also: no repetition of previous debates. This was discussed in detail last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u86	Agreed. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u87	It is true that it is about Turkey, but my question remains: when should that turn to zero? That's the simple question. It's not six to eight weeks, but when is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u88	That is to be able to use the instrument of resolution. Then you talk about weeks and not months. Let me put it this way. But again, even if that didn't work, it may be that what the Turks are doing on the west coast, perhaps not with the numbers that we would like to do in conjunction with what Greece is doing and in combination with what is happening in the Balkans, will make you succeed in getting that power under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u89	The current asylum crisis is, of course, bad enough in itself, but it is also going to cause huge waves of partner and family migration that are coming after it. What does the Prime Minister do to stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u90	In fact, someone who comes in now has to wait for 33 months before he can even make an application. That is not because we like it or because we want it, but simply because the relevant services are overloaded. That is simply a factual observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u91	But it's not an answer to my question. What is the Prime Minister doing to strengthen partner and family migration, regardless of treatment periods? Denmark, Germany and other countries are already in the process of strengthening these rules for partner and family migration, because this is necessary. Again, it's coming after that whole asylum influx. What does the Prime Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u92	Well, we now have about the strictest rules on partner and family migration, compared to Denmark and Germany. The fact that countries are always making very heavy announcements with tightening up their regulations does not mean that it is all so difficult. The Netherlands does not. We do one thing. We have already tightened things very much in the past. You can now see that the waiting times are enormous. We also find that this is a reason for many refugees not to want to go to the Netherlands. They do not want to wait 33 months for family reunification. That is not a desirable effect of policy, but it is the result of the fact that our services had to deal with a very high influx in 2015. I would like to look again with Mr Fritsma at a precise comparison between the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark. I think that when it comes to the robustness of our regulations, we are in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u93	That's the challenge I'd like to face. Look at Denmark's partner and family migration policy. They have much stricter rules there because they have an opt-out. They are not bound by these strange Brussels guidelines. Yet they still say: the Prime Minister must first look at it, because they are doing better. The Prime Minister still says we're not gonna do anything. Tens of thousands of asylum seekers are coming in. They're gonna be coming over soon, as far as they don't, all partners and kids are gonna come over. Those kids are gonna make partners come over and the Prime Minister's gonna say, "We're not gonna do anything." That's what follows the facts. The Prime Minister is already behind the facts, and the Prime Minister will also be behind the facts. He better stop doing so, because the Dutch citizen deserves more than a prime minister who is always chasing the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr Fritsma has prepared an interruption that would end with this bouncer, but it is not supported by my answer. It shows that we have done and done things and that there are simply effects of the large influx that have their significance for the relative position of the Netherlands on the list of countries that asylum seekers are now going to. But, yes, if Mr Fritsma does not take that with him in his final contribution to that interruption, then it becomes complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u95	We are looking at the facts of the enormous partner and family migration that is to come. We are looking at the fact that Denmark has much better control over this, unlike what the Prime Minister says about it. Let's hold on to those facts. The conclusion is, the Prime Minister isn't doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u96	I refer to the previous answer. That can be checked in the Acts. We do a lot, there are also just effects of the large influx that have a great significance in themselves. I have also said it to my Danish colleague: by taking away the watch, no fewer people come to Denmark, no way! People come to Denmark, the Netherlands or Germany because we have high prosperity. So taking a watch is a pointless action. What makes sense is making sure you're completely clear, and that's us here. We say honestly: you'll be here for up to five years and when it's safe again you'll go back. Not because we want to, but because it is the effect of the large influx on our services, we honestly say that it simply takes a lot and much longer before your first application is dealt with and before family reunification applications can be dealt with. We find that for this reason people do not choose the Netherlands. We have to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u97	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Mrs Gesthuizen, this point was discussed at length, also last week. Or do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u98	Yes. I'm really bumped by what's being said. It's about bringing the inflow to zero. People have to wait a long time for a procedure here. Perhaps that still has an effect on people's willingness to come to the Netherlands. The arrangements must ensure that the inflow is contained. Everything is aimed at ensuring that those 60 million refugees worldwide, more than half of whom are children, can go anywhere but not in the Netherlands. I ask the Prime Minister what he is doing to respond to the UNHCR's call for 460,000 people to be resettled worldwide. What does he do with the mandate of the motion adopted in the Chamber last December, which calls for the Netherlands' commitment to the UN Refugee Convention and its implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u99	Look at the facts. When I talk about direction zero in response to Mr Buma's question, it is not about asylum influx into the Netherlands. This year and in the coming years, we will, in my firm belief, be open as a decent country to people fleeing war and violence. The numbers are too high. We cannot cope with the numbers we had last year. We gotta get those down. But we will always be open to large numbers. We usually have about 15,000 a year. We had 30,000 in 2014 and we had almost 60,000 in 2015. Do not accuse me of not fulfilling our humanitarian duty. We do that; we do more than that ourselves. In Europe we are in the group of countries where people go most. They go even more to Sweden, Austria and Germany, but immediately afterwards the Benelux countries come Belgium and the Netherlands. We do that decently, albeit soberly. The deadlines are running up because the numbers are increasing. That's inevitable. But it is not the case that someone here is advocating that asylum seekers should no longer be included in the Netherlands. However, the numbers will have to return, otherwise I expect the political and social support for the policy to be lost. I want that support to remain there, because I believe that we, as a civilised country, should always be prepared to receive refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u100	That's not an answer to my question. The Prime Minister just suggested that people come to the Netherlands because the social services here are so excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u101	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u102	That is what the Prime Minister said, in response to Mr Fritsma. I myself heard him say that people are coming to the Netherlands because of our social services.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u103	No, I was talking about the wealth of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u104	There are 60 million refugees. More than half of them are children. I would like a response to the question I just asked the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u105	First, I'm gonna come up with what I said. I wasn't talking about benefits, but I said it was about relative wealth. The Netherlands is one of the richest countries in the world, just like Denmark. Refugees from Turkey coming here across the Western Balkans do not go to Poland, Latvia and Romania. They come to Germany, Sweden and Austria and to a lesser extent to the Benelux countries. My point is that this is done because we are looking at where there is a future. That is not just my statement; it is also clear from all the facts. So I'm not talking about social security. I just mentioned the example of taking the watch from Denmark. That's pointless. It doesn't get more or less asylum seekers. But if there is prosperity in your country, we have prosperity here, people will choose your country rather than any other country. You can't have that. You will have to have a situation where Europe is gradually dividing up the burden. The relocation mechanism is designed to ensure that Eastern European countries also assume their responsibilities and that not the asylum seeker decides where he is going, but that Europe decides. This not only makes Germany, Sweden or Austria feel this pressure, but also goes to Poland, the Baltic States, Romania and Bulgaria. That's a decent policy. But the Netherlands will be open to refugees this year, next year and also the year after. That's what I stand for. That's what we're all here for. However, we will have to control the numbers together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that there are still a few questions left for me. I'll answer those questions. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for its contribution in the first term. I think that many have called on the European Union to stay together as firmly as possible this week. Maybe there are different shades when it comes to the question of how. In view of the migration crisis and the geopolitical crisis we have in the border area of Turkey and Syria, we must at least operate as clearly as possible and achieve consensus, because that is the only way to be effective. This also involves a direct Dutch interest. It is also a task for the Presidency. In that light, I would like to divide the questions put into three subjects. Firstly, I come to the situation of Syria and Turkey. I will also answer the questions raised about Turkey's activities in this area, including the humanitarian aspect that has been raised. Secondly, I would like to address a number of issues relating to the negotiations with Turkey. Thirdly, I would like to address a number of questions that have been raised about the NATO mission in the waters between Greece and Turkey. It is important to start with the situation in Syria so that we have a better understanding of what is happening in the border area. Firstly, the situation in Syria is unfortunately very fluid. As you know, it has been significantly deteriorated by the Russian bombings since the end of 2015. Russia has carried on with these bombings in the past period, even after the discussions we held in Munich last week. The country that is most affected by this is Turkey. That country already has 2.5 million refugees. Once again, a lot of refugees have come to the border there. That is the first point I should like to make. The second point is that now that the Netherlands is part of the so-called International Syria Support Group, we are trying to help as much as possible on all fronts. There are two issues at stake here. On the one hand, it's about de-escalation. The Chamber has also asked a number of questions about this. On the other hand, it is about humanitarian access. On the subject of the Turkish-Syrian border, I would like to make it clear that there is no new Cold War. I think this is really the wrong name. It is not a new conflict between the United States and Russia, although these countries must play a crucial role in resolving this problem. However, it concerns a set of regional and local players, which influence each other and which then influence NATO and Russia. They certainly also influence Russia's attempt to break up NATO countries. I would like to warn against that, by the way. I haven't heard much about that today. It is, of course, an attempt by number one of the Russian Federation to create further divisions within NATO. Turkey is of course an ally of the Netherlands in NATO. The most important thing right now is de-escalation. That's extremely complicated given the fluid positions at that border. Let me start with the questions that have been asked about the Russian Federation and Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u107	The minister just referred to the way Russia is trying to divide within Europe, he said: within NATO. I had asked a question about the visit of Orbán, the Prime Minister's colleague, who is in Russia today, perhaps in preparation for the summit but hopefully for other reasons. I would be pleased if reference were made to that too. I do think it is important for us to know what the Foreign Minister thinks about a partner of ours in the European Union preparing for a European summit in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u108	I'm not sure what he's doing there. Apart from what I may or may not think of Mr Orbán, he is of course free to travel to any place. So I have no judgment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u109	I'm sorry about this. If I can believe the media who write about this, it is clear that Mr Orbán seems to think it is more important to prepare for the European summit with a partner from outside than with a partner from within. And that outside partner is still a partner who is trying very clearly to divide the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u110	There's one thing we agree on. I was not talking so much about division within the European Union as about division within NATO. That's a completely different matter. It is also important that, if Mr Orbán goes there, he also goes with a message. I hope that message is that he condemns the Russian bombing of civilians and the opposition. I hope he will send that message to his interlocutors in Russia. In any case, we regard these bombings as a flagrant violation of UN Security Council Resolution 2254. It was adopted unanimously. I hope that Mr Orbán will do the same. However, I am neither concerned with his programme nor with his itinerary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u111	I would like to ask the Minister or the Prime Minister whether he would like to verify that tomorrow in Brussels and perhaps respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u112	Sorry, the question is not clear to me. What should we verify?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u113	The Minister said: this is the message that Mr Orbán should take with him. After that, the Minister expressed the message he himself would like to convey, also on behalf of Europe and NATO. I think it's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u114	I am not talking about Mr Orbán's programme in Moscow. I really can't report on that either; I'm sorry. However, I think it is important to return to that question as to what is actually going on in Syria and how we can de-escalate it with each other. I stressed the importance of UN Security Council Resolution 2254. I am doing so in the light of the European summit. It is important that, if, one week after the call for a ceasefire, the flagrant violation of UN Security Council Resolution 2254, European leaders should, of course, take a position on this matter. The Netherlands has also taken a number of initiatives to this end. We will see how that is reflected in the conclusions. The way in which pressure can be exerted on Assad and Russia is an important topic for the Netherlands to discuss in the European Union. I raised this in this morning's letter and we discussed it in the RBZ last Monday. That is where, for example, Kerry lies, but also Lavrov. They must first of all draw attention to this. In that light, questions have also been asked about Turkey's position. That is an important point. I also sent a letter on this subject to the House of Representatives on request this morning. So we also think it is important that this should not only apply to Russia. Russia is, let us say, "the great culprit" when it comes to strengthening the regime of Assad, at least at the moment. Russia also causes a large number of humanitarian victims. The situation in Northern Syria has, of course, become very complicated. That is why it is so important that last week it was agreed that we should do everything in our power to ensure that this agreement is implemented. This also applies to the PYD and Turkey. For both the Turkish attacks on the PYD and the actions of the PYD outside Kurdish cantons, we must ensure that these tensions do not get out of hand. The Netherlands has joined the United States, which has called on both Turkey and the PYD to cease their hostilities. If I may, I would like to make a comment on what is being said about the role of 'the Kurds'. If only there were "the" Kurds in the region we are talking about. There is a great difference of opinion on all kinds of fronts between the Kurds in Iraq and Syria. As the Chamber knows, Turkey sees the Syrian-Kurdish PYD/YPG as a branch of the PKK, which is also on the European list of terrorist organisations. Turkish artillery has been shooting at the border since last weekend, Kurdish YPG units marching in and around the city of Azaz in northern Syria. They say that this is done because of the fact that Turkey is being attacked. I agree with the Chamber that this shadowiness must be clarified. We reject the escalation in that region. However, I would like to point out that the YPG units occupy areas in the hands of the moderate opposition and that there is cooperation between the Assad regime and the YPG. That makes the whole thing a little more complicated than has been said here today. However, let there be no misunderstanding: the Dutch government in the International Syria Support Group is on exactly the same line as the allies, the Americans and others. The escalation must be reduced and there is a need for all parties to comply with it. We will continue to pursue this actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u115	I do not often debate with the Foreign Minister, but the number of words he needs to say is truly unprecedented. In the end, his speech ends with what the Prime Minister says all the time: I note that something is going on. The question of the Chamber is: how does the Dutch Government assess Turkey's bombings in Syria? If we in the Netherlands are trying to get the Kurds on our side in Syria, surely it is not up to an ally, without coordination and coordination, to bomb the Kurds?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u116	I am sorry that I may have spoken a little long, but I thought it wise to correct some of the misunderstandings that you yourself have raised about the position of the Kurds at least and to clarify what is actually going on. This does not seem unimportant to me in a very shady position, in which NATO is also under great tension at the moment, precisely because of Russia's bombings. I think it is important to be clear about this, also in view of the way in which we are going to react internationally to Turkey. I don't understand what your confusion is. This morning, at your request, I sent a letter to the House of Representatives in which we clearly said, together with the United States, France and Germany, 'Turkey, stop fighting!' We rejected that. I don't think there's any misunderstanding about that. I have tried to put it in perspective of the situation on the ground. There is also another problem that the Turkish Government rightly has to deal with: the large number of refugees coming in that direction and the risk that a whole strip will be in the hands of a movement that is a risk to Turkish security. However, we reject this action, as we reject any action that goes against a cease-fire in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u117	This is so essential because these bombings take place without prior consultation. The minister says the cabinet rejects this. He also let us know this morning. What is "absent" if we talk to the same Turks a week or a month later about joining the European Union? That can never go hand in hand, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u118	I am going to talk about the accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u119	That would be one of my questions, too. Anyway, first of all, let's make another point. I assume that the Prime Minister, or the Minister, also knows the role of Jabhat al-Nusra in that region. He talks about the moderate forces, but they also work together with Jabhat al-Nusra, also in this region. Where there is a mutual conflict with YPG and the moderate opposition, you are also facing a third factor: Al-Qaeda-like groups. In that perspective, I will give the Minister the opportunity to fight, but that is not yet a justification for the bombings that are taking place in Syria from another country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u120	I agree with that, as I made clear earlier this week. This was done by the Netherlands, by France and by other countries. There is absolute clarity about that. I think everyone has a desire to de-escalate the case in Syria. Maybe I need a lot of words for that, but it is important, because it is really a bit more complicated than the Kurds being shot at. Turkey also says it is an answer to YPG shelling, connected with PKK in Turkey. This needs clarification. But for me it is crystal clear that in the way I have just said, the air bombings and possible ground options cannot be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u121	I am supplementing the Minister, also because this morning we received a letter from him saying: let's face it, both parties should stop bombing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u122	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u123	That is why I am emphasising Jabhat al-Nusra, an organisation against which we are also going to war. It's not just about ISIS, it's about Al-Qaeda-like groups. As a result, you cannot speak of an equivalent punishment of YPG and the Turks. You have to see that role of Jabhat al-Nusra in perspective when it comes to the conflict between the Kurds and Jabhat al-Nusra. I'd like to give that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u124	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u125	This is a complicated conflict, which is becoming more and more complicated, so I would like to give the Minister his words and the amount he needs to do so. Merkel also spoke today in the Bundestag about setting up a no-fly zone. That is complicated, because that is what we need Russia for. What possibilities does the Minister see in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u126	I do not know exactly what Mrs Merkel said about that. I do know that it is a Turkish wish to do so. I'm sorry that I need a little more words to deal directly with the point we were just talking about. The PYD not only works with Arab groups, but has a quiet agreement with the Assad regime to take up a certain position in northern Syria and at the same time address IS as little as possible. That's a risky situation. Once again, I am making it very clear that I do not agree with colleagues in other countries that this should not lead to today's reaction. What can you do to help people? I will come to that when it comes to humanitarian aid. We know that there is no international mandate for a safe zone at least at the moment. Air dominance alone is insufficient to maintain that zone. Then you would indeed need ground troops. It is not clear who should supply these ground forces, regardless of the question that precisely because of the very essence of what is happening in Syria, the main problem lies there. In any case, IS will be strongly opposed, also in view of the importance of the route through Turkey; it is a strategic area. Jabhat al-Nusra, which was just mentioned, also indicates that such zones will be obstructed. Will that safe zone be attractive to refugees? How safe is that zone, in particular, because the Russian Federation, which is the big problem I really want to talk about, is opposed to such a zone? Then you'll be in a big escalation very quickly. However, as far as we know, there are no concrete plans for a safe zone at the moment. However, should Mrs Merkel have any ideas about this, I am also the Prime Minister and I am sure that she will be very willing to look into it. Syria's tragedy has been going on for five years without any protection for citizens, so we must do everything we can to get ahead with it. If such a zone could play a role in this, we should look at it, but the arguments so far, and the lack of an international mandate, make it very complicated in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u127	I appreciate the Minister's attitude. He is quite right to say that we must also look closely at the Kurdish position and the way in which the Kurds cooperate with the Russians, but also with the Assad regime. We must therefore be careful about the judgment we are giving. The situation there is already precarious enough, so we do not need to stir up any more unrest there. The question I asked was not so much about the safe zone there as it seemed to me to be a number of bridges rather than very specific about the no-fly zone. I also see that the Russians don't want to do it at all. I just noticed that Merkel came up with that again today. Does the Dutch cabinet also want to continue its efforts for this no-fly zone? This seems to me to be an important first step towards creating something of peace and the beginning of a solution in northern Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u128	Let me at least say the following. The Dutch government will make a very active commitment to anything that can contribute to the greater security of people. If a no-fly zone can contribute to this, there will be no taboo for us. However, I would like to point out that, at this moment, the debate is mainly about Syria, and that there are two things at the heart of our efforts. Firstly, there is humanitarian access, which is being started today. Now both the Russians and the parties are being tested on the other side and we can see if we can get the equipment that people need in those six places. It is, of course, important that this happens. If this actually happens, there is also a degree of de-escalation. I am not naive about that; let us test it above all. Secondly, there are military contacts between the Russians and the Americans. That's what's most important this week. We must ensure that these two countries, despite the fact that there is no new Cold War, can discipline their own allies. That is why, as I say to Mr Buma, the role of the Americans vis-à-vis Turkey is so important and it is so important that we send out equal messages towards Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u129	I'm going back to Turkey's bombing of the Kurds. Let us not lose sight of the main line. What's the deal? The Kurdish fighters have ensured that Northern Syria is liberated from IS. The Prime Minister himself said that we are at war with ISIS. Brave Kurdish fighters fight against ISIS and clean the area. Now they are on the Turkish border. Despite the fact that they do not intend to invade Turkey, this does not please the Turks. The Minister is well aware of the fact that Turkey is in fact defending itself. That is, of course, complete nonsense. I would like to hear a somewhat sharper response from the Minister towards Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u130	I'd be repeating myself. In my letter this morning and also in my remarks today, I said exactly what I think. Once again, it is not a condoning of what the Turkish Government is doing or is not doing exactly at the moment. I reject that. I also said that we are not the only ones doing this. However, I would like to point out that it is a little more complicated, and I am sorry that many words are needed for this than just the good and the bad. If only that were the case in the conflict in Syria, because we would have been out of it a long time ago. Once again, I would like to point out that the YPG units are also mentioned in gross human rights violations against a number of groups that are there, and that the YPG units have now recaptured territory, because of the Russian bombings, on the Free Syrian Army. So that really makes it a little more complicated. Nevertheless, we reject any further escalation from the YPG or from the Turkish Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u131	That's not true. The area that has been recaptured has been conquered mainly at ISIS. So they expelled ISIS and, to a very small extent, the Syrian opposition. So it doesn't make any sense. My objection is also on another point. I read the Minister's letter. Of course, that's a very lame story. It says that the Netherlands supports the US in calling for a ceasefire between Turkey and the Kurds. That is not a condemnation of Turkey, that is to go along with the Turkish story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u132	That is what we disagree about. I don't think the letter is written like that if you interpret it now. The letter is clear and does not give rise to any misunderstanding, not even internationally. It is important that we pronounce it as we have just done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u133	This is exactly what the Turks want, namely the frame of the story that the area now occupied by the Kurds was originally of the Syrian opposition. That's not right, that's a false statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u134	One more sentence about that. In any case, I agree with Mr Bontes that it is complex. That is why we support stabilisation, precisely for the benefit of these Kurdish groups. That is what the Dutch government is doing. Last week that was the subject of the debate. We therefore do not take a stand against this. We also see that, together with American initiatives, they are active in the fight against ISIS. I'm just pointing out that there's another side too. This should not then lead to a Turkish action which would be escalating further. That is why America, the Netherlands and other countries are calling, as I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u135	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u136	Among other things, Mrs Gesthuizen asked about access to humanitarian aid. The Netherlands contributes EUR 30 million to the United Nations for aid in Northern Syria. Following the large flow of refugees from Aleppo, the United Nations has accelerated the release of 10 million from this fund. Last week, in Munich, we finally set up a specific task force to improve humanitarian aid. As of today, efforts are being made to reach various areas that could not previously be reached, such as Fua, Kefraia, Madaia and Zabadani, by tomorrow to provide humanitarian aid. The Syrian regime has officially authorised the loading of trucks with relief goods by the UN and the Syrian Red Crescent. Now we need to see whether they can actually be delivered quickly. Tomorrow, in the humanitarian task force, we will do everything we can to help get that stuff on the ground. Once again, of course, we are very concerned about the situation there. I would point out that neither Turkey nor any other NATO ally has so far raised the issue of hostilities between Turkey and the YPG in the framework of NATO. It is not on NATO's agenda, and as far as the Netherlands is concerned, it remains so. We do not intend to suck NATO into this conflict. That would be extremely unwise. I said what I think about the ground troops. This is not just about Turkey, but also about Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Turkey have said that they want to frame it in the context of the anti-ISIS coalition, which is why it is so important that discussions between the Americans and the Russians are now taking place. There is no support for this. The Dutch Government supports that fact. I come to the question of accelerated accession to the European Union. I would almost say "as the Prime Minister said," but I'm afraid to say that now. I understand the concern that we are no longer complying with the conditions for accession. Those concerns are unjustified. Turkey is a candidate country. Of course it has the prospect of accession. This process has its own dynamics and is based on clear, strict criteria which must be met each and every one of them. I would stress that the existing conditions on the EU side remain in full force. I would like to draw attention to Mrs Piri's report, which was discussed yesterday in the European Parliament. Moreover, this has not yet been established, but the discussion shows a mixed picture of the situation in Turkey. This also applies to the Commission's progress report last year. I fully understand the concerns about the rule of law in Turkey, as do we about the situation in the south-east of Turkey. It is not, then, that suddenly nothing is said about it. The question is: what do we want with Turkey? We want it to change its behaviour at least as far as the rule of law is concerned, as all the speakers have said here. I would like to point out that the European Parliament's report proposes the opening of chapters 23 and 24 of the rule of law. I think that is a good idea, because it will give Turkey a clear roadmap of reforms that it needs to implement. The Chamber can check that with us. I would like to point out that the relationship with Turkey is a little more complex than that. It is a candidate country, with which we have very important negotiations on migration. It is, of course, also a regional power and a NATO partner, as everyone will understand. In that context, I think it is really important not to separate things politically but to make progress in the right way. The Commission is concerned with the precise wording, which will then be submitted to the Council. So the Chamber is not fooled in, just to put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u137	Have you finished your response to this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u138	Yeah, I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u139	I will come back to this accession. The Minister must nevertheless acknowledge that the chapters have not been opened for a while, to use that jargon, because it did not go well with human rights and that they are now being opened, that we are talking now in exchange for Turkey's stricter action against the flow of refugees. I call that real business. This is not because the human rights situation makes us want to move forward, but as part of a deal. They get EUR 3 billion and see visa freedom and the reopening of chapters in exchange for stopping refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr Buma makes this analysis. Apparently, she's good for him, but she's just the truth. The European Union and Turkey have already welcomed the opening of Chapter 17 at the summit on 29 November. That happened on 14 December. That really had nothing to do with a Turkish request; it had something to do with the resumption of a French blockade on that chapter. That's really different. We informed the Chamber on 26 November. The Commission has further committed itself to drawing up preparatory documents in spring 2016 which does not mean at all that it is already going to happen for Chapters 15, 26 and the Rule of Law chapters. There was only one document ready; that is the document on the common foreign and security policy. We informed the Chamber on 2 December. Once again, the Council decides on the opening and closing of chapters. That's what the summit statement says. This will be subject to strict conditions. There are no shortcuts. So I really distance myself from Mr Buma's view that we are suddenly taking decisions because of migration negotiations which he does not know or which, as far as he knows, would have to do with a 'trade' in which the principles are abandoned. I have just indicated the importance of these two chapters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u141	We're not crazy here! An agreement has been made with Turkey and is now being implemented. For our part, we are delivering EUR 3 billion. We're gonna talk about joining. It is a good thing that the French have dropped their reservations, which comes out well, but it has been discussed that we are going to do so. And then there's the visa liberalisation. The Minister must admit that it did not come because the Turks had their human rights situation so well in order that they were entitled to it. It's just a deal. The position of the CDA is that you can talk about a country's accession. You can even work on it and on opening chapters if you think there is reason to bring that country another step closer to membership of the European Union. However, there is no reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u142	I'm repeating myself. I just really don't agree with that. We disagree on that. Turkey is a candidate member. We have a lot of comments on this. To this end, I have also referred to Mrs Piri's report by the European Parliament. That's just as important. I now see much more opportunities in a serious commitment to further this type of thing. We'll just actually see if that happens. Let me give you an example. Mr Buma was just talking about visa liberalisation. I was asked a question about this too. The document contains 19 pages with conditions Turkey must meet with 72 benchmarks. These include conditions in the fields of document security, migration and border management, public order and security and fundamental rights. We will not see any progress reports on this until spring and autumn. If Turkey meets all these 72 benchmarks and the 19 pages, then the Commission will make a proposal to put Turkey on the list of visa-free countries. Then the Council must reach an agreement on this. It is quite simple to say that we are selling our souls, as if something suddenly happens that is not right. I think that Mr Buma really ought to express that differently, if he is honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u143	I think Mr Buma is honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u144	Yeah, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u145	Yeah, I think so!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u146	... but I was talking about the argument and not about Mr Buma himself!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u147	The Prime Minister has just said that he cannot give reports if it has not been agreed in advance that this must be done. Since I find it rather worrying that such different things have been said, I would ask the government to indicate next time that the Chamber is happy to see the report. Then this can be reported in advance and it may be possible to send the report afterwards. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Maybe one day it'll be agreed that you'll just keep a uniform story when you walk out that door together. This may also help to support the whole situation and the way it is handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u148	No, I think it would be very unwise for the government to agree with another government on the way in which we are going to deal with the press. To be honest, that does not seem to me to be a good idea, apart from the question of whether what Mr Verhoeven said about what happened two weeks ago is a proper presentation of things. So this really does not seem wise to me. Politicians must be free to speak to the media in their own way on the basis of the discussions they have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u149	What I have been constantly addressing this minister and the Prime Minister is the fact that this is a kind of moving train that runs off on a wall that turns out to be a little further away every time because the government says: there is nothing going on; it all fits within processes; we do nothing at all. But each time a step forward is taken, at least in communication, where "the Turks are going to take steps towards accession." That can't go on indefinitely. Either the Turks are at some point completely disappointed by this strategy or steps are actually being taken, as Mr Buma fears, which are more meaningful than the government is making appear all the time. Which one is it? My point is we can't stretch this elastic forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u150	Let me try one more time to remove Mr Verhoeven's concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u151	Shortly, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u152	We are dealing with Turkey with a rather complicated country. The country has a central role in migration, it is a NATO ally, it is on the front line with Syria and it is a candidate for membership of the European Union. No one can change that; there are facts. I understand very well that Mr Verhoeven, in view of the complexity of the situation, and those four facts are at the same time saying that one way or another it will be exchanged against another very quickly. That is in itself a very real debate. The only thing we can do as a government is to indicate exactly what we are doing at the point where Mr Verhoeven is most concerned, namely accession: when will a chapter be opened, on the basis of which benchmarks, when will it be decided? The Chamber will then have every opportunity to intervene. That's not gonna change. I would like to convince him that this is the commitment of the Dutch Government, also in order to gain his confidence that there is no trade-off or a trade-off on the four elements relating to Turkey. He can, of course, monitor us for that, but that must always be done on the basis of arguments, facts and procedures that are being used. Mr. Chairman. I come to speak about reducing IPA aid to Turkey. As is well known, thanks to a Dutch lobby following the Segers motion, the annual IPA support for the period 2014-2020 has already been reduced by 50 million. The cabinet would have liked to see a further reduction because Turkey is a middle income country. At the same time, I have to face facts. Per capita, Turkey receives €7.80. That is a fraction of IPA support to countries in the Western Balkans, for example. For example, it is €50 per Kosova. In addition, thanks to the Dutch lobby within the remaining IPA budget 19% more goes to the core of the homework that was discussed: strengthening the rule of law and better protection of human rights. Turkish progress on these and other dossiers will be measured in 2017 and 2020. The Chamber knows that this is well measured. Apart from the question of whether we agreed or not, we shared the arguments. It was said that the Commission report was far too late, namely only after the elections, but it was a critical report. So there are no words swallowed in one way or another. That goes for here, too. I can convince the Chamber that we have already called for a cut in IPA aid to Turkey. In it we were, as we know, alone. However, I think it is important that we focus on the points that the Chamber considers most important. We share Mrs Maij's concern about the situation in the south-east of Turkey. It's not something that's suddenly talked about. The same applies now and also to the letters to the Chamber. I think it is important that both proportionality and the peace process are at the forefront of relations in South-East Turkey. We have been asked how we look at the NATO mission. The question is whether the NATO Fleet Association Standing NATO Maritime Group 2 can be used for the collection of information, surveillance and monitoring of human smuggling lines. The proposal is being further developed at the moment, because certain military and legal aspects are still unclear. At the latest in the middle of next week, there must be a final opinion on the implementation on the basis of which NATO can take a decision. Of course, it is not intended to be a ferry to Greece; the Chamber can understand that. NATO is, of course, also committed to international law and to international regulation. As far as cooperation with Frontex and relations with refugee treaties and the like are concerned, therefore, international rules must of course be observed. The most important thing is that people go back to Turkey, but the precise wording really has to wait for the Chamber, which depends on the advice of the military leadership. We must first have a clear picture of the military and legal frameworks; only then can we make a political decision. Our commitment is to follow the principle of Germany, Greece and Turkey that migrants who are found at sea and come from Turkey return to Turkey. This needs to be worked out now. The Court will, of course, soon be informed of the technical and legal aspects of the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u153	Before I give the Members of Parliament who wish to intervene the floor, I would like to know how much longer you think you will need and how many questions there are left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u154	I think I'm gonna need about five more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u155	Then I suggest the Minister answer all the questions first. After that, Members of Parliament will be given the opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u156	I have a feeling about the subject of the following questions from Members of Parliament, namely Turkey as a safe third country. A third country is safe from a migrant if there is a link between the migrant and the third country concerned, he is not persecuted there for example because of his race or belief, he is not returned to the country of origin if he is at risk there..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The level of protection must be in line with the UN Refugee Convention, as if it were a real alternative. It is not necessarily necessary for Turkey to formally lift the geographical restrictions on the UN Refugee Convention. This can also be done through the transposition of national legislation. Turkey has now taken a number of steps to enable the Union to apply the concept of safe third country. Turkey has committed itself to the principle of non-refoulement. Under this law, international protection can be granted to all foreigners irrespective of their nationality. Turkey further underlines that it has a no-return policy for Syria. Frankly, this is also apparent from the fact that Turkey is taking 2.5 million refugees. We are now focusing, also in the action plan, on promoting the legal and socio-economic situation of refugees in Turkey. This means that Turkey brings its national laws and regulations on the protection of refugees and their rights and facilities into line with the UN Refugee Convention. Turkey has also taken steps in this regard. For example, it has introduced legislation to provide Syrians with access to the labour market. It is also preparing EU-funded projects to significantly increase Syrian children's access to education. I have taken note of the announcement by Greece that Turkey should be regarded as a safe third country. This is an important step in itself and shows that a country such as Greece has an indication of Turkey's security. This is something that the other Member States, including the Netherlands, need to look closely at and then come to a judgment, taking into account the relevant legislation. The European Commission's appreciation is, of course, also relevant in this respect. The Commission's communication of 10 February suggests that steps should be taken in this direction. As the Chamber knows, there is also investment in relations with Turkey, in reception facilities and in other conditions of refugees there. Whether someone can be sent back to Turkey on the basis of the safe third country principle remains, I say to Mrs Gesthuizen, subject to individual scrutiny. In this context, it is also important for Turkey to sign and ratify the Convention on Refugees. The EU and Turkey Action Plan has agreed that Turkey will comply with the roadmap as soon as possible. This is about visa liberalisation, with all the points I have just mentioned. The Commission has indicated that Turkey is now on its way. Turkey adopted a law on foreigners and international protection in 2014. It must now be brought further into line with the Refugee Convention. The Commission will report on Turkey's progress in implementing the roadmap and visa liberalisation in spring and autumn 2016. We can therefore take further steps, if necessary, on the basis of all these benchmarks. Why have we not yet placed Turkey on the national list of safe third countries? As the Chamber knows, the European list is currently being discussed in various bodies, including the Council working groups and the European Parliament. As my colleague Mr Dijkhoff said earlier, it was not wise to anticipate developments. That is why Turkey is not currently included on the national list of safe countries. My colleague, Mr Dijkhoff, will be taking a decision on this shortly, in the light of the important conditions and the positive developments we have seen in this area. So that has not been decided at the moment. The state of funding of the Turkey plan has been requested. As you know, the Member States have reached an agreement on the amount of 3 billion. Of these, 1 billion comes from the EU budget. This contribution from the EU budget will largely be included in the 2017 budget proposal. The Member States' contribution shall be based on the GNI key. We will contribute 94 million. In addition, there will soon be an agreement on the legal design of the facility so that it can be launched. Again, that's not a check to the Turkish government. There is already very active consultation with NGOs and other organisations to ensure that the refugees who are entitled to it get it. This concludes my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u157	I propose a second term. Much has been interrupted and often not in two or three, but this is an important debate. Unless a question has remained, I would now like to move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u158	In order to avoid a motion, I would ask for clarification on this point. I believe Mrs Gesthuizen would like to ask the same question. The minister says NATO wants to send people back to Turkey. In the second part of his reply where he talks about Turkey as a safe third country, he says: not yet. I can't reconcile those two statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u159	That question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and is also put on behalf of Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u160	I have made a number of comments about Turkey as a safe country: when and how, how the Dutch Government looks at it, what the position of the Greek Government is and how the Commission looks at it. There are a number of real advances which make it more possible in themselves to qualify Turkey as a safe country. However, that needs to be worked out precisely and I know that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice is actively working on it. He'll brief the Chamber on this. The second is the NATO mission, which will look at exactly the same issues. That mission aims to undermine the model of smugglers, so it is not a ferry service. You map the smugglers and then make sure that system stops. This is essential and everyone will soon agree on it. There really needs to be an end to drowning people there. So this has nothing to do with closure, but with the need to undermine the system. As you know, military advice is now being given to the Defence Ministers. The Netherlands has introduced legal and political conditions for this. We will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I also hope that this can be done quickly, because we must make progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u161	This brings us to the end of the first term. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. I give the floor to Mrs Voortman on behalf of GroenLinks, but not until we have calculated how much time she has. Oh, you can do just fine filing a motion? I think that's very good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u162	Mr. Chairman. This is an interesting change of form, but I am replacing Mr Klaver. I shall confine myself to tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proposed agreement with Great Britain could have a major impact on European cooperation, including the position of Dutch workers in other EU Member States;]] [[noting that this agreement is being presented in the United Kingdom in a referendum but also has a major impact on the rest of the EU;]] [[calls on the Government not to take hasty decisions and not to give its final assent to a decision on the adaptation of European cooperation without first submitting it to the Chamber;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1077]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister for the answers. Two major topics have been discussed today: preventing a Brexit and curbing the flow of refugees. As far as Brexit is concerned, we will have to wait for the results of the summit. It is clear that the Prime Minister has also said that there is every reason to keep Britain within the European Union and that the conditions set by Great Britain are not entirely impossible for the Netherlands. The flow of refugees is a problem that affects us all very much. I do not want to hide the fact that I found it rather odd that the essence of the whole, namely Turkey and the negotiations, was forwarded by the Prime Minister to the Foreign Minister. That's okay, but if you have the guts to talk on TV about going back to zero and all, you have to do it here. Eventually, the Prime Minister answered the question as did the Foreign Minister. There is one other point that is not entirely clear to me, and that is an extremely special act. I'm gonna read it from my iPad. The Foreign Minister says that there is no deal or anything like that where, in exchange for Turkey's action to stop refugees, there would be talk of accession and visa liberalisation. However, on 29 November 2015, the Volkskrant reports from the European Union Summit with Turkey on the one hand the holding of refugees by Turkey and on the other hand the making available of 3 billion on the road to visa-free travel, indeed with those conditions, and speeding up accession negotiations with Turkey on the other. That is then a major step forward. I don't know who's wrong, but this was in the media at the time and I think it was discussed. The CDA considers it unwise to continue these accession negotiations and chapters in these circumstances, and that is why I have the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkish EU membership has become part of negotiations between the EU and Turkey on curbing the flow of refugees;]] [[noting that accession chapters are being opened which are contrary to the conclusions of progress reports by the European Commission and the European Parliament;]] [[points out that the EU and Turkey should seek alternative partnerships than membership;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the opening of any accession chapters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma, Voordewind and Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1078]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u164	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers for the answer, although the cooperation was indeed a bit tough. The division of labour was difficult. The Foreign Minister needed a few words on some points, and the Prime Minister used a few words. The average was nice, but the individual performance still leaves room for improvement. I'm worried about two things: blackmail and blackmail. As far as I am concerned, that is the summary of this debate. I fear that the blank cheque given by the VVD to the Prime Minister tomorrow to give all the room for a deal will lead to some kind of push through the funnel and an appointment that, under pressure from Cameron, leads to something that will leave us dissatisfied over time, with a precedent effect, which will also bring lists to all other countries. The Prime Minister says this is not happening, but I find it odd that a Brexit trick is needed to abolish a purely British system. I think it goes beyond that. I would therefore call on the Minister not to be blackmailed and, if necessary, to keep his foot down. Know that if the VVD says that high game is played, it may also be that high game is played. For high game you should not bend too easily. And tell Cameron: go campaign bravely in your own country if you have a deal and don't have such a half-hearted attitude of "we'll hear it in the referendum." Turkey says that everyone has unjust concerns. I believe the Foreign Minister once again when he says that it is all within the framework, but we continue to monitor this very closely. I hope he feels the same way, because it's a really weird and shady process. I have a motion on freedom of movement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the free movement of workers is one of the greatest achievements of European cooperation;]] [[Whereas the present Brexit proposals contain major restrictions on the free movement of EU workers;]] [[Whereas these proposals are so far-reaching that they cannot only be subject to objective conditions in secondary legislation;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept a proposal which does not clearly define the conditions for the mechanism for restricting the free movement of workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1079]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr. Chairman. I have four motions. I'm just gonna read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey does not respect civil liberties, such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression, and that the situation in Turkey is only deteriorating in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise that Turkey cannot become a member of the European Union and to commit itself within the Council to stopping or suspending pre-accession aid in the areas of democracy, the rule of law and human rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the United Kingdom does not wish to commit itself to a "ever closer union";]] [[calls on the Government, the United Kingdom, to support this and to distance itself from any movement towards a more political union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1080]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1081]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u166	My next motion concerns the safeguard mechanism, which we discussed with the Prime Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the agreement with the United Kingdom contains agreements on a "guarantee mechanism" allowing Member States, in an exceptional situation, to temporarily restrict the access of citizens of other Member States to certain social security provisions;]] [[considers that such a mechanism should in principle be able to be used by all Member States, provided that the conditions are met;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to the application of the guarantee mechanism to all EU Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Turkey is attacking and seriously undermining our allies in the fight against ISIS and Jabhat al-Nusra in the fight against the Syrian Kurds;]] [[Considering that Turkey's financial support for the reception of refugees is therefore in a different light;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend financial aid to Turkey if Turkey continues to fight against the Syrian Kurds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Haersma Buma and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1082]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1083]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u167	Mr. Chairman. Too bad the gentlemen have been uplifting most of the interrupting time. Sometimes you sit around a little too long as a lady, and then you don't get the word anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u168	Ah. Next time, I'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I shall read out a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Europe recognises the UN Refugee Convention;]] [[Considering that it has been decided that NATO will patrol the waters between Greece and Turkey in order to combat human trafficking;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that Europe does not in any way support the pushback (reduction) of refugees by NATO if they have left Turkish waters by boat in their crossing to Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Voordewind, Mr Voortman and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1084]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u170	I see I have a little time left. This time is a time for leaders, for people who can step over their own shadow. After all, there were never more refugees worldwide than they are now. We see that more and more countries are closing their borders sweetly. European countries announce maximum numbers of refugees to be admitted. Appointments to take over and redistribute people are not respected. Government leaders cling to populist sounds in their own country and promise an influx that goes zero. The effects are immediately visible. Syria is one of the countries where the greatest conflicts in the world are currently taking place. Syrians are getting harder and harder to get out of their country. I can't see these two things apart from each other. The harder the Netherlands and other European countries will say that people are less welcome here, that we do not want these numbers anymore and that we can no longer handle it, the harder the countries in the region around Syria will be careful to admit refugees. And in the end, the victims of war are the people who are truly victims of this situation. They're the duped.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr. Chairman. It is now clear to almost everyone that the EU is seriously failing in resolving the asylum crisis. The EU is not getting anything done and is now making itself dependent on Turkey to solve the problem. Erdogan can blackmail himself now. Unfortunately, the cabinet is taking part in this failure policy of the EU. That's very bad news. The good news is that more and more other countries are taking less and less of the EU. They do not want open borders or forced entry of asylum seekers. These countries have courage and put an end to the pursuit of a common European asylum policy. They put an end to Schengen and to the whole of the EU. The EU is collapsing, and that is wonderful. This cannot happen fast enough for the PVV, because then we can rubble, put an end to open borders, Schengen, mass immigration and Islamisation. That's a very nice prospect. I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u172	Mr. Chairman. Just now, Erdogan has announced to bomb even more of the Kurds in Northern Syria. I am therefore tabling a few motions for resolutions on Turkey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkey has been bombing Kurdish troops in Northern Syria for days;]] [[Whereas other countries, too. as France has urged Turkey to put an end to these attacks;]] [[calls on the Government to strongly condemn these Turkish bombings and to demand the Turkish Government to stop these attacks as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1085]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u173	Two more very short, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas EU countries are being blackmailed by the Turkish Government in the negotiations on the migration crisis;]] [[calls on the government not to give in to this Turkish blackmail policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NATO will be deployed in the Aegean Sea;]] [[whereas NATO should under no circumstances serve as a ferry service to bring asylum seekers to Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals for a NATO mission aimed at stopping boats and sending asylum seekers back to the Turkish coast,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1086]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1087]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. A somewhat pragmatic approach meant that the more open questions, which should lead to reflection on where we are going with the EU, did not come out so well. I look forward to the moment that this will happen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that efforts to achieve the return of foreigners are frustrated by European rules, e.g. by using the right to leave voluntarily to another Member State to disappear into illegality;]] [[calls on the Government, within the framework of the Dutch Presidency, to make efforts to amend the European rules in order to ensure adequate opportunities for guided return and to prevent disappearance in illegality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government supports the European plans for a more comprehensive Frontex agency;]] [[noting that the mandate of this Agency may contribute to the undermining of the sovereignty of Member States;]] [[calls on the Government, within the framework of the Dutch Presidency, to use a more limited mandate in which Frontex cannot intervene in a Member State against the will of a Member State by means of an implementing decision of the Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1088]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1089]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u175	Mr President, I will reassure you: I do not have any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u176	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u177	We have discussed two important issues today. I would like to thank the cabinet for answering questions about Brexit and the right of veto for non-euro countries. That right of veto is not at issue. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment to do so, even if the United Kingdom is moving out of the EU, the package that was intended for the British. We will come back to that shortly after that referendum. By the way, the cabinet is free to make its own proposals. Finally, I come to Turkey. The Minister took the words "not yet enough" in his mouth. Of course, we are looking at what will happen in the coming weeks. We wish the Cabinet every success in the coming days at the summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister for their reply. We can clearly see that there is urgency on the subject of migration. That is the biggest issue on the agenda of the summit. We now see that perhaps we are going beyond just talking, that action is going to be taken, that steps are being taken to ensure that no more people die in the Aegean Sea, that reception in receiving countries, both in Europe and in Turkey, is going to improve and that legal routes are also going to be created, opportunities for the resettlement of refugees to Western Europe. That is a good thing. We also talked about the Brexit. In that context, I would like to ask about equal pay for equal work, about living wages in particular and about the labour mobility package. How will this be taken into account? I have a motion on that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Council on 18 and 19 February may result in negotiations between the Member States and the United Kingdom;]] [[noting that the resulting proposals have an impact on the free movement of workers and on the social rights of migrant workers;]] [[noting that it does not promote solidarity between European Member States if the United Kingdom has exclusive exemptions in the EU;]] [[believes that the Netherlands should work at European level to combat labour exploitation, ensure the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place, and never allow discrimination against different European citizens;]] [[believes that every effort should be made to keep the UK within the EU, while respecting European fundamental principles;]] [[calls on the Government, in the negotiations in the EU with the British, to step up the fight against labour exploitation and to ensure that an agreement does not lead to discrimination against European citizens in the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to promote in the negotiations that the agreement does not undermine long-term solidarity between European citizens and Member States;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1090]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 1077 is precisely about the debate we are having here today. The agreement with the UK is by definition a broad agreement. And the effect of it will also come back here in the Chamber. I'm dissuading the motion. Also the motion in part No. 1079 I don't recommend. This is also the subject of an agreement on broad lines, which is further developed by the Commission. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1081. For the Netherlands, this ever closer union is a bit like a dead parrot. This motion is very categorical. It is possible that you integrate less on certain parts and a little more on other parts. Think of the Banking Union, which has led to greater integration. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. 1082 is policy support. It's gotta be a deal for the 28. The motion in part No. 1088 is policy support. We are working hard on it with the Presidency and the Commission. The motion in part No. 1090 is also policy support. The first request refers to the Labour Mobility Package, which is being worked on incredibly hard. The second request has been dealt with by a temporary suspension. That applies to everyone, so the motion is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I'd like to advise against 1978. Apparently, new rules are being proposed. Apparently, Turkey's candidate status no longer applies to the signatories of the motion. In this sense, it is a farewell to an earlier position for some groups. Of course, that is allowed, but it is not the opinion of the Dutch Government. We still believe that Turkey is a candidate for membership of the European Union. There is also no blockade of the Netherlands on accession chapters. We consider it important to open chapters on the basis of benchmarks, for example in the area of the rule of law. The freezing of certain chapters is mainly due to the blockade of Cyprus. I'm dissuading the motion. Also the motion in part No. I would advise against 1080 for the same reason. Moreover, the motion is inconsistent internally. At the moment when a country cannot become a member of the European Union, there can be no more or less pre-accession aid. That's exactly where the problem lies. If you don't want to do it anymore, it's hard to influence. However, that is a consideration of the authors of this motion, which I would therefore advise against. The motion in part No. 1083 I would advise against. As is well known, the situation is really a little more complicated and the financial support is intended precisely for Syrian refugees. That is why I would also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1084 I also advise against. Firstly, we must wait and see what the precise proposals are. It's not about a pushback. I do not understand exactly what that means, because it is about surveillance based on Greek-Turkish cooperation. These countries have now reached an agreement on this matter. Of course, the important legal and international legal aspects are being considered, which I have already addressed. I would therefore advise against the motion. The motion in part No. I would advise against 1085 because it is unnecessary. It has been clarified this morning and I think that the call is incorrect, because it should be addressed to all parties. We have done so ourselves, and that is what the international community is doing. I would have the motion in part no. I do not agree with the term 'Turkish blackmail policy'. I would have the motion in part no. 1087 the NATO mission is still being worked out. The goal is also primary monitoring and surveillance. The efforts of the Netherlands are based on the proposals of Germany, Turkey and Greece. We will, of course, inform the Chamber as soon as possible after the decision-making process has been completed. On the motion in part No. 1089 I would like to say that it is really important that we protect our external borders. Sovereignty questions can, of course, be addressed. The Chamber is also informed of this in the annotated agendas. In this general sense, I would like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-17-tweedekamer-8.u181	That brings us to the end of this debate. The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. A debate has been taken off the agenda and I can therefore suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
