ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. That was scary. I am glad that I have seen Mr Dikkers leave the Chamber quite well again. We wish her well. A completely different subject: trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. That is a gruesome crime and a gruesome crime, often directed at young victims. We have recently seen the cases in Valkenburg and Schiedam, involving minor victims. What also struck me, however, is that the perpetrators were very young. Last Friday, the National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking came out with an investigation in which she showed that the pattern of Valkenburg and Schiedam is a general pattern. Perpetrators are often very young. A fifth of the suspects in these cases are under 23 years of age. I would like to ask three questions about the report by the national rapporteur, namely the background of the perpetrators, the detection and prosecution and the condemnation. I'll start with the unsubs. We need a better look at who did this and the profile of the unsubs. Why? Because then we can work on prevention, including prevention of the horrible crime that takes place every time. But what does it turn out to be? The National Rapporteur has been cut by 20% in her budget and is unable to do good research. My first question is whether special subsidies can be released in order to better understand the perpetrators of these terrible crimes. Then I'm gonna come up with a BOLO and a capacity with the police and the D.A.'s office. This is about international networks. Fortunately, last week we managed to save the police liaison officer in Bucharest. It remains open, but in the meantime cooperation with Morocco and Turkey, for example, is also crucial. Can extra investment be made in this international cooperation? Can additional investments be made in the capacity of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office? In fact, too few things are being done and so too few people who are responsible for these terrible crimes are being punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Segers for his questions. He'll be there soon. The National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings issued this monitor every year and delivered the monitor to the Minister in person yesterday. They also talked about it. As usual, of course, the Chamber receives a policy response, in which we go into the report in detail. But I understand that Mr Segers is responding immediately, because it is a pressing issue in which we are at great risk, including with young perpetrators. These guys we call loverboy. For me an incomprehensible term, because little does not come into play in love. In the background of the unsubs and their profile is now under investigation. This is expected to be completed by the end of the year. But Mr Segers' question may also be whether we know enough or whether we should continue. The question of whether this is sufficiently secure or whether extra space is needed will be taken into account by the Minister in his policy response. With regard to the detection and capacity of the police and the public prosecutors, the budget includes a post for tackling organised crime, including trafficking in human beings. The Minister will tell us exactly how much can be used to combat specifically trafficking in human beings in the budget. The question of relations with Morocco and Turkey can also be taken into account and answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	I thank the Secretary of State for that commitment. It is good that we get that insight, but I am very concerned about the capacity of the National Rapporteur. It plays a crucial role in the fight against trafficking in human beings and to gain insight into backgrounds and patterns. Yet her budget has been cut. It is therefore a strong plea on my part to give her sufficient resources to enable her to continue doing this research. This also has to do with my third subject, which I have not just touched on, namely the measure of punishment. We have increased the punishments, but the punishments are lower. So we arrest less, we prosecute less, and we punish less. That is a bad pattern, because we want to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings. My question is whether we can also investigate the background to these lower penalties. The national rapporteur said in her explanatory statement that she does not know why this is happening. She does not know why we are increasing the penalty on the one hand and imposing lower penalties on the other. We need more insight into that. In addition, I ask whether the cabinet is prepared to talk to the Council of Justice to find out what the background to this is. We all think this is a priority. We want this to be dealt with harder. But if this is the pattern: more offenders, lower age, less persecution, lower penalties, then that really is a very bad development.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	This development is also undesirable to the cabinet. Therefore, room has been made for the intensification of the approach by police and OM and for the budget to be specified how much is available for this purpose. In addition, there is the phenomenon of the level of punishment and the lower penalties that are imposed. I cannot anticipate whether the cause lies with the police, the prosecution, the judiciary or a combination of them. In any case, the Minister was planning to speak to the police and prosecutor for the policy response. We will also take with us the suggestion that the Council should discuss the case law without saying that the cause is there. We will report on this discussion in the cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Finally, I would like to ask for consultation with the national rapporteur on where the bottlenecks in her research are, for example, on the profile of the perpetrators and the lower penalties. Does she have sufficient capacity to do the research needed to give us a clear view of the backgrounds? In addition, it is indeed necessary to discuss with the Public Prosecutor and the police whether they have sufficient capacity. We will receive a letter on this, but I encourage the cabinet again. These are horrible crimes against people who are being taken away from their freedom. In addition, a discussion will be held with the Court of Justice. If we get a better view of the background and can intensify this fight towards budgetary treatment rather than slackening attention and reducing the penalties, I would be worthy of a sweet thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	The cabinet shares with Mr Segers and many others that abhors the cowardly abuse of the situation and the vulnerability of people. We will also examine the report along this line and send a thorough response to the work of the National Rapporteur to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	I can answer a lot of questions by referring to Mrs Agema's ten-point plants, which are years old. In it is the profile of the perpetrators; that is mostly ethnically evident from a pilot in Amsterdam. We have those figures. I hear talking about punishment for these horrible crimes. I believe that I have been there three times to plead for minimum penalties for serious sexual and violent crimes. No one to support it. Now it is election time, there will be a report from the National Rapporteur and now we all know it at once. And then they ask for an investigation. If the Chamber is serious about this and if the Secretary of State is serious about tackling "these terrible crimes" at last, minimum penalties will be introduced for these crimes through a legislative process; just a lower limit. Fact is, the perpetrator is a criminal offence and then a certain sentence must be imposed. Will the Secretary of State take a look at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	The rapporteur of the National Rapporteur appears annually, so let us not pretend that this has anything to do with the elections. Furthermore, several reasons can fit in the profile. Mrs Agema seems to have zoomed in on one element, but we need a broader study to determine whether there are reasons other than ethnicity in the profile, because that does not say everything. We have spoken on many occasions about the element of minimum penalties. The cabinet will not go into this during this period. That is a well-known fact, and so does Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	These are indeed very disturbing messages. We're dealing with young perps. Up to two times, the legislator has said that the penalties should be increased and that the penalties imposed should be reduced. So I'm really glad the Cabinet wants to see how this is done, how it can be done differently and what's behind it. Can we expect a letter on all these points before the budget debate? The Secretary of State just said we're getting a letter about certain elements. May I assume that, for the sake of consistency, I think it is right that we should get a response to this report from the cabinet before the budget is discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	Certainly, the specific points I mentioned are taken into account in the response to the whole report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	It is very good that the Secretary of State says this. I would merely encourage him to do so and make a suggestion. In the case of juvenile criminal law, we had initially thought that there would be a doubling of the maximum sentence. Unfortunately, it was finally taken out. Would the Secretary of State like to look at that again? For those young offenders, who should be able to receive both a punishment and a treatment, the CDA believes that a higher penalty should be possible, but it was taken out by the PvdA and the VVD. Can it be reconsidered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	This question by Mrs Van Toorenburg is also addressed in the policy response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. We shall now turn to Mr Verhoeven's questions on behalf of D66.
