ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	In addition to the members of the House of Representatives, I welcome the special delegates appointed by the States of Curaçao, the States of Aruba and the States of Saint Martin, who have literally taken their place in our midst. It's nice to see them sitting here in the benches of The Hague. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, Mr Dijkhoff. I'll give you a few more practical messages. Since it concerns the treatment of a Rijkswet, special delegates have the right to speak. They did some of that yesterday, behind the chair. I have drawn up a list of speakers on which the Dutch Members of Parliament will take the floor alternately with the Members of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. Mr Sulvaran will speak on behalf of the States of Curaçao, Mrs De Sousa-Croes and Mr Herdé and Mr Bikker of the States of Aruba, and Mrs Marlin-Romeo of the States of Saint Martin. In accordance with Article 17 of the Staff Regulations, contributions from special delegates shall have the character of providing information. In view of this, I propose that, if necessary, only one explanatory question be put. I therefore ask Members to keep the interruptions very limited, given this particular nature of the sitting. Mr Thijsen is not speaking today; he is listening. Mr Bikker will speak after Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Herdé will not be here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The current government is the government of "you have to fight." Prime Minister Rutte believes that immigrant young people who feel discriminated against should fight in the labour market. Now Secretary of State Dijkhoff says that refugees must fight in society. His bill, which is before us today, allows anyone who does his best to integrate into the Netherlands to wait two years longer for Dutch citizenship. In the explanatory memorandum to his bill, the Secretary of State failed to clarify exactly what that is good for. What are we gonna do with this? Poverty? Crime? Bureaucracy? Or maybe it'll cut back? None of that, it seems. The Secretary of State does not go beyond the fact that people are likely to be more integrated after seven years than after five years. It could be. But if you're thinking like that, you might as well say that after ten years, people would be even more integrated. Former Minister of Foreign Affairs Rita Verdonk saw naturalization as a positive welcome. It served to make the new citizen aware of the special connection with the Netherlands. On a point of order: I see that you have only timed for five minutes, Mr President, but I had given up 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'll take that 15 minutes into account. You did report for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you. GroenLinks has often strongly disagreed with Verdonk, but we share her view that naturalisation is a catalyst for integration. Naturalisation is not a test moment for integration. Those test times are already enough, for example when you get a temporary residence permit, when you get a permanent residence permit and when you get an integration course. Naturalization, as Verdonk called it, is the positive welcome. From that moment on, people really belong and they are as Dutch as you and I. People want to be part of it. The sooner they get that feeling, the sooner they'll integrate. In which universe do we help people integrate more quickly by denying them Dutch citizenship for a longer time? GroenLinks therefore insists on better integration, language courses and access to the labour market for asylum seekers from day one and integration at the place of reception, as the alderman in Utrecht is doing now. It seems that the only purpose of this bill is to harass all those people who are trying every day to get into society. I hope the Secretary of State will take away that appearance. I therefore have a number of questions for him. Can the Secretary of State further justify how extending the naturalisation period should contribute to accelerated integration? Can he comment on Bakker, Dagevos and Engbersen's research, which shows that the absence of Dutch citizenship is a significant disadvantage on the labour market, for example because employers do not want to run the risk of the residence permit being withdrawn? Is this extension not the right way to ensure that people are longer on benefits? Does the Secretary of State share the view of GroenLinks that the labour market is also an essential element of integration? Why does the Secretary of State find it justified that licence holders should wait two years longer for their voting rights? Voices is an important part of participation in Dutch society. Moreover, if people have already passed their integration exams, have they actually met what is needed to participate in the democratic process? How does the Secretary of State justify the fact that status holders now have to wait two years longer for naturalisation, are restricted for two years longer in international travel? How can the Secretary of State reconcile his bill with Article 34 of the Refugee Convention? It states that states must strive to speed up naturalisation as much as possible. This bill does exactly the opposite. Can the Secretary of State also comment on the fact that the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Council of State and RefugeesWork have all reacted negatively to the bill? Why isn't that a reason for him to reconsider and reconsider this bill? Can the Secretary of State again make an attempt to argue what exactly this bill is good for, other than: we are ticking off one more thing from our coalition agreement? GroenLinks is never too bad to help the cabinet by making something decent through the tabling of amendments to bad legislative proposals. For example, I am currently considering an amendment which regulates the granting of Dutch nationality to children born in the Netherlands with at least one parent with a residence permit. It's weird that we don't consider children who have lived in the Netherlands for the rest of their lives to be Dutch. Children born in the Netherlands who grew up here for years, made friends and built their futures still have no security of residence. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this change of law is an excellent opportunity to deal with this. As I said, I am working on an amendment at the moment, but I want to make sure that it is legally well established and that is why I have not yet submitted it. I have already tabled an amendment which provides for the extension of the naturalisation period from five to seven years to be reversed. So we make a counterproductive bill a groundbreaking improvement. I have tabled two more amendments, because if this law is adopted in its current form, GroenLinks wants at least an exception for the people who have assumed to be able to become Dutch within five years. I tabled an amendment on this with D66. This should be done in a rule of law where the principle of legal certainty applies. Moreover, GroenLinks wants a solution for former Dutch people who lost their Dutch identity because they were not familiar with the loss assessment after ten years. In order to find a solution to the current cases, I also have an amendment. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if he and the Foreign Minister could improve the information on this loss clause. This would prevent expats from losing their nationality in the future, for example, without their knowledge. It goes without saying that GroenLinks does not support legislative proposals whose aim is not clear. The amendments I have tabled offer an opportunity to make the need a virtue and I call on my colleagues to take that opportunity with both hands. Let's really help people integrate faster than they have to fight themselves. Give people that fair chance to become Dutch. Then we "current Dutch" can also be a little more proud of our own Dutch identity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	In her contribution, Mrs Voortman already indicated that she had tabled an amendment to remove the essence of the bill, namely the extension of the naturalisation period from five to seven years. What is her view in view of the rules of procedure which indicate that this is a destructive amendment? Does she not therefore agree that the amendment should not be tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	No, I don't. This is an amendment to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, inter alia, to extend the period for granting Dutch citizenship. I have focused on this point, because I am critical of it. You have not heard me about these other changes. Because I'd really like to keep it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	This, I believe, is the essence of the bill. It is very clear what this bill is about: the basis is the extension of that deadline. Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure states that an amendment cannot be accepted if it has an effect contrary to that of the legislative proposal. As far as I am concerned, this is therefore a destructive amendment. All I want is for Mrs Voortman to consider this. We do not need to make a point of order now, but I would therefore like Mrs Voortman to consider this ongoing debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	If that were the only point in the bill, Mr Azmani would have a point. But that is not the only point: there are indeed some other points in it. That is why I do not consider this amendment to be destructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap to extend the period for granting Dutch citizenship and some other amendments. I am a delegate of Curaçao because I am a co-signatory of two amendments drawn up by Mr Bikker. The first amendment I am referring to concerns the creation of an exception for investment arrangements in the overseas countries. We are in favour of maintaining the five-year naturalisation period. If that deadline is to be seven years, it will damage our competitive position. I'm talking about attracting bona fide investors and interest rates. Curaçao has an investment scheme that states that if you invest 500,000 as an investor or an investor, you are entitled to a residence permit for three years. If it is more than 750,000 people are entitled to a residence permit for five years and if they invest more than 1.5 million people are entitled to a residence permit for an indefinite period. Interest rates and investors must have sufficient resources in a sustainable and independent manner. I have the figures from November 2014 to February 2016 showing that 44 investors have benefited from the scheme and 156 interest rates have done so. For Dutch concepts there are not many, but for Curaçao concepts there are quite many. Assuming a minimum investment of 500,000, we come to the conclusion that a minimum of 95 million has been invested in the last 16 months. It also created jobs. After all, people must be recruited. We therefore call for an exception to be made in respect of the naturalisation period for investors and interest rates in investment schemes in the overseas countries. The main amendment concerns Article 1 (f) (3). It states that the fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: the period referred to in paragraph 1 (c) shall be set at five years for the applicant who has made a degree of investment to be determined by the General Measure of the Government. This is my explanation of the first amendment. The second amendment raises a major problem, namely the multiple language test. I did primary education in the Dutch language on Curaçao. I also received education in the Dutch language at the HAVO and the VWO. At the University of Curaçao I received lessons in the Dutch language and English language. I obtained the PhD in Business Administration at the University of Groningen, where Dutch and English were spoken. I can see that I am not very good at speaking in the Dutch language because of the simple fact that I rarely speak Dutch on Curaçao. Ninety to 95% of households use Papiaments as their language. Only in the court is Dutch spoken. However, I can read, write and understand Dutch well. The starting point of the multiple language test is that immigrants who want to be naturalized have sufficient time to integrate into society and have sufficient links with society. The language key in Dutch is at mavo/havo level. It concerns listening, speaking, reading and writing. For a Latin American and a person from the Caribbean, it is very, very difficult to master all this. And they don't need that to integrate into their society. In Curaçao, a naturalization application can be made after ten years. The people do not use Dutch as a language. If they have to use the Dutch language, they feel that they should speak Chinese. With such a test you pass your goal and achieve the opposite. One has to pass the Dutch test, but for our people this is not a means of integration and participation. People experience that as a means of exclusion. The kids have their friends there. They know everything about society and are integrated, but they still have to take a test Dutch. Perhaps that is necessary for the Netherlands. This is perceived as unequal treatment and as a kind of barrier. They therefore experience this as a means of excluding people instead of allowing them to integrate and participate in society. So, as I said, there is a contradiction in this respect. I would like to draw attention to the Sulvaran motion adopted by the House of Representatives. Already in 2009 I was here as a delegate in the framework of the Staff Regulations of Saint Martin and Curaçao. The motion aims to ensure that Dutch, English, Papiaments and Frisian are recognized as kingdom languages. I think it is very important to say this in this context. I would therefore suggest that you no longer rely on that multiple language test and apply the pre-January 2011 regime in that regard. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State two questions. From this he will learn how to exclude people from participation. In the context of the multiple language test, I want to know how many people on Curaçao have succeeded and how many of those who have been naturalized went to the Netherlands. In fact, I believe that the law assumes that anyone who naturalises and receives the Dutch passport will want to go straight to the Netherlands. That is not true, however. I think it's very low percentages. How big is the success rate on Curaçao so far for the Dutch final exam for naturalization candidates? How many people have to pass the exam, while they don't master Dutch and still want to live in the Caribbean? They do not want to live in the Netherlands, but want to build their future there, where their children and friends are. So it is not an automatism that people in the Antilles or people of Aruba, Curaçao or Saint Martin take the plane to the Netherlands to live here. I think the vast majority stays there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Señora presidente, kolega, publico presente, pueblo hulandes. I understand that anyone can understand me if I speak very slowly. Dutch is a very difficult language for Arabanen, while Papiaments is very easy. It has several languages in it. You can hear Spanish, Portuguese, a little African, Aruban and Indian. But in that you hear very little of the Dutch language. Old Dutch at the most. We're talking about naturalization today. We in the islands want to talk mainly about the double language test. When people from Latin America come to Aruba, they have a lot of trouble learning the Dutch language. My colleague, the previous speaker, has just said that: you can hardly hear the Dutch language anywhere. You can hear Dutch at school. However, as soon as one is older, one does not go to school in Aruba. You won't hear Dutch anymore, except in court. Dutch is really a school banking language. We learned this language because we were born in the Netherlands. People who are not born in the Netherlands, however, do not hear that. After all, it is not a second language. People in the Netherlands of course hear the Dutch language. Most of the foreigners I use the term that is in the National Law on the Netherlands are from Latin America. On Aruba, we're pretty strict about this. For us, it does not matter very much whether there is a naturalisation period of five years or seven years. In practice, someone has to live in Aruba for ten years in order to qualify for an indefinite residence permit. In the end, the person concerned can also submit a request for the acquisition of Dutch citizenship. In any case, for Aruba and Curaçao, it does not, in principle, matter whether the naturalisation period from five years to seven years goes to seven years, I think this also applies to Saint Martin, but I do not know for sure because that ten-year period is still being kept. In this respect, we are stricter than the Netherlands. Madam President, Señora Presidente, I was once told by a language expert that if you don't know a particular word, if it doesn't appear in your language, you can't quite understand it either. In the Papiamento, for example, we do not have a word for the Dutch word 'family'. We know "famia." That stands for a bigger picture. For example, I have a famia of 200 people. I hope that we will soon come up with a word for the word 'family', because that will give us more fun parties. If I were to translate it into the situation we are now in, the family for us is Aruba and the famia is the Kingdom, the Netherlands. Imagine living in a particular family and speaking the language of that family, not the language of a larger famia, a larger family. You talk only in Aruba, really, Papiamento. It's an easy language, a lot like Spanish. In short, someone from Columbia can make themselves understood in the Papiamento. That is also apparent from the figures. Before I left Aruba, I asked for the numbers. This shows that before the introduction of the dual language test, in 2010, 2.090 people asked to take a test in the Papiamento. For 760 people, I believe, the naturalization request was granted a year and a half later. A year later, in 2011, only 150 people made a request. In 2014, there were 90 of them. The number of requests granted, according to 2015 data, was 120. Mind you, 120 people! Every year around 1,500 people join the island, coming from the Latin American mainland. Because it is so difficult, many people have left the Netherlands. What exactly was the target at the time, I ask the Secretary of State. Has that goal been achieved? Was the goal of integration and participation? At least that's what I read in the explanatory memorandum. In the end, it has achieved exclusion and inequality, at least on our islands. We have situations where one parent was lucky and just in 2011 could become Dutcher, while the other fell just outside the boat and remained Latino. The children, who go to school and are therefore able to speak Dutch very well, cannot be naturalized like their mother. A very uneven, strange situation. You're running into them more and more. People live in Aruba for a long time, have a house there and their children go to school there. They are therefore completely Aruban, but cannot vote, because they do not have Dutch nationality. I would ask you to pay attention to this. We have made an amendment in which we ask that we go back to the situation for 2011. So not two languages, namely Dutch and the language that is common on the island, but choice. That could be Papiamento. If the amendment is not adopted, I would very much like to know the feelings of the House about holding two languages, i.e. a double language test with the choice of the four languages of the Kingdom: Dutch, Frisian, English and Papiamento. Someone from Aruba could then choose between Papiamento and English. English is spoken much more. Most foreigners on Aruba work in the catering industry and speak perfect English. I have one more point, and that is more of a technical question. In my view, it is proposed under A and B to replace articles of the Conflicts Act registered partnership with Articles 61 and 62 of Book 10 of the Civil Code. However, it does not exist in Aruba, so this must be the Dutch Civil Code. I think this should be mentioned for the sake of clarity. In our Aruba Civil Code we do not yet know a registered partnership. I hope that this will come very soon and that the foreigners on our islands from the Ihbt community will be able to rely on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues from the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, good morning. Our society is built on language. We use language to communicate with each other, to explain our intentions, to work together and to pass on knowledge in writing, to mention just a few examples. Language is part of our culture and identity. It is therefore not surprising that individuals who settle in the Kingdom of the Netherlands and wish to become Dutch may be expected to be powerful in the languages of the Kingdom. This is now reflected in Article 8 (1) (d) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. That article states that the applicant "may be regarded as established on the basis of the fact that he has a degree of knowledge of the Dutch language to be determined by a general measure of government, or - if he has a main residence in Aruba, Curaçao, Saint Martin or the public bodies Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba - the language which is current on the island of main residence, as well as the state establishment and society of the European part of the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao, Saint-Maarten or the public bodies Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba, and he has also entered into one of these societies'. The above is known as the dual language key. The special delegates Bikker, Thijsen, Sulvaran, Wever, De Sousa-Kroes, Herdé and Marlin-Romeo are now proposing an amendment to end this double language test which has often been discussed during the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. Not only is the dual language test at odds with the principle of equality. After all, only naturalisandi located in the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom and BES are affected. The extension of the five to seven-year period also presupposes a certain degree of link with society, which makes this dual language test superfluous. More specifically for Sint-Maarten, our Statute should be taken into account, which states that Dutch and English are the official languages of Sint-Maarten. The demographic reality of Saint Martin and the languages in education must be taken into account. The mastery of one of these languages already proves a sufficient link with society and culture. The States of Sint-Maarten also support the amendment of the special delegates on setting the deadline at five instead of seven years for bona fide potential foreign investors and/or investors. Pensioners, as this will have a positive impact on the St Martin economy. We hope that the House will be able to accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. I must say that it is a special privilege to hold the debate with special delegates. That gives us a little extra awareness that we are really talking about a state law. It is good to see this in that perspective, even if the special delegates are not present in the discussion of a legislative proposal. Even then, we must ask what it means for the other parts of the Kingdom. In addition to the technique, I have to say that it is quite complex in terms of nationality law.... there is always an emotional side to discussions about Dutch citizenship. This also came to light when we first discussed a law here that would give more effect to Dutch citizenship. That was in 1850. Of course, I have not been there myself, but I have been able to see how that debate went at that time. Former Minister of Justice Donker Curtius then spoke in a passionate manner and said that there is also something of emotion and attachment to the relationship of a state to the subjects. As a result of the question of whether you could lose the Dutchmanship again if you went abroad and how to deal with it, he said: if you think that as a state you are actually a kind of father to the residents, to the citizens, to the citizens, to the citizens, then it also has the effect that you are positive about it if they want to return. You will of course think of the biblical story of the prodigal son. That son left and came back later. When that son came back, the father didn't say he wasn't one of them anymore, but he eventually went to slaughter the best calf. Now we wouldn't want to kill a calf directly for every Dutchman who shows up after years of anonymity, but the image makes it clear that there is not only that technical side, but also the side of emotion and suture. I found this particular point interesting because it is also mentioned in this legislative proposal. After all, it is a question of how the Dutchmanship works when someone emigrates abroad. Can you let the Dutchmanship be lost only by the fact that a period of ten or fifteen years has passed, regardless of the backgrounds that may be at issue? On that figure, I have only one question for the Secretary of State. That figure is not so much new in this bill, but I have a question about it. In an earlier amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, we have just said that the figure of the legal lapse is actually obsolete. There must always be an assessment moment. It is also good for legal certainty if not all of this goes automatically, but if it is clearly recorded, if there is a clear decision-making time and if it is clearly made known. Does this not have an impact on this category, on people who have gone abroad and eventually lose their Dutch identity by the passing of time? Would it not then be better to create a separate decision for these cases as well? Strangers must wait a long time to become Dutch. That period is arbitrary, regardless of whether it is five years, as is the case now, or seven years. You cannot say very clearly that for some reason it must be really five years or for some other reason a longer period. On the basis of the note on the basis of the report, I note that the Netherlands is among the relatively fast countries, since it is possible to become a Dutch citizen after five years. There is now a relatively small shift from two years to the maximum period possible in the Treaty, namely ten years. We can imagine something about this, not only in the light of European developments and in other countries, but also in the light of the fact that this is an interesting element in the contribution of the special delegates, because there is often a longer term for naturalisation in the islands, namely ten years. Is it not strange that there is such a difference between the Netherlands and the islands? You're not getting any closer to that, are you? Isn't that an additional argument for shifting from five years to seven years? Would it not also be a good idea to provide a firmer basis for this bill if, on the contrary, the deadline for granting an indefinite residence permit also went to seven years, so that it coincides with the naturalisation period? I tabled an amendment to that effect together with Mrs Keijzer. We have already raised this issue in the budget debate. Then the Secretary of State,.............................................................................................................................................................................................. If you still have a period of five years for Dutch citizenship, it is illogical that you would not get a permanent residence permit after all. Now there is this proposal. As far as we are concerned, on the basis of this proposal, all asylum seekers who have not yet reached the deadline for naturalisation must return to their country of origin when there is sufficient perspective for them. The legislative proposal is the first step in this respect, but should extend the time limit for a certain period of residence. According to the SGP, automatism to grant a right of residence for an indefinite period after five years does not fit well with the legislative proposal. After all, postponing this decision can ultimately increase the support for asylum policy, provide temporary protection. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The legislative proposal is intended to strengthen the integration and commitment of future Dutch people. We support that objective, but we note that the extended naturalisation period does not provide any additional incentives for this. The government seems to see the extra time mainly as an extra two years in the waiting room. Whether someone does their best, any asylum seeker who cannot return to his country, is told after five years that he can stay in the Netherlands for a long time or for an indefinite period. We see a simple opportunity to promote integration. This can be done by foreigners who do not succeed after five years of integration and who do not yet have sufficient income, only after seven years of application for an asylum permit for an indefinite period. After five years, foreigners who are financially able to stand on their own feet and are settled can be granted a strengthened right of residence, namely the so-called EU long-term resident permit. I am therefore curious to see how the Secretary of State looks at the amendment I tabled together with Mrs Keijzer. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap offers the possibility to deviate from specific rules in special cases. This applies, for example, to humanitarian reasons and to minors. We have described in the report a situation of a minor which has already been widely called for in the Chamber. It is a poignant story of a family in which a child is eventually taken care of in a foster home. The government indicates that this is not seen in the policy as a special situation as foster parents can adopt. Would the Secretary of State please explain in detail why he thinks this is reasonable? Is it desirable for foster parents to be put under more or less pressure to adopt in this way? My technical argument is over, but I was still thinking about the biblical story of the prodigal son. When it comes to nationality, you can of course have reservations about whether a Father State is entirely desirable. In any case, the State never makes it to a real father, let alone to the Father about whom Jesus tells in his story. That Father stands every day on the lookout to receive lost people in his heavenly kingdom. The nationality of that kingdom is also available by option, I say only a few moments to recruit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	I call Mr Bikker, on behalf of the PDR of the States of Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	Madam President. Good day, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues, attendees and anyone following us through the media. I will not repeat myself, but it is a fact that it is a great achievement that we are standing here on the basis of a motion resulting from the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation, the IPKO. For the first time we stand here in one week, following the IPKO, for the treatment of national laws that are being treated clustered. Yesterday we dealt with the Rijkswet-Van Laar. Today we are discussing the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. Tomorrow we will deal with the Rijksvisum Act and with another state law. So four national laws are being treated in one week. It is good to see that in this clustered treatment we have the opportunity to express our concerns about the way in which laws operate in our countries in accordance with Articles 16 and 19 of the Statute. It has just been outlined by colleagues that the dual language test has been working disproportionately since 2011 with regard to naturalisation and has had an uneven effect on the people concerned. Aruba has had to call on the region for more than 30,000 workers to help build our economy. Because Dutch is not used as a language in Aruba, a large part of these people are in fact waiting for them to reach the retirement age of 65 years. They can then opt for Dutch citizenship on the basis of Article 6. I think this is an unintentional effect of the 2011 change. I ask the Secretary of State if any thought has been given to this and, moreover, how this relates to the European Convention on Nationality, the ECN. We have calculated that the course costs about €1,500, because it is a course at the secondary level and you need to master the language in order to pass the test. Converted, people who normally have an income around the minimum subsistence level have to put €1,500 on the table to qualify for the double language test. When the dual language test was introduced in 2011, did one consider that this is again a threshold that effectively excludes people rather than their integration? We've been doing research on this. Belgium, which is also a member of the European Convention on Nationality, seems to have several jurisdictions where one has other languages and is also bilingual, but where only the mastery of one language is required for the acquisition of nationality. This is an example that shows that in neighbouring countries different or less requirements are imposed with regard to a comparable acquisition or acquisition of a nationality. I would like to dwell on one of the amendments that we have tabled, namely the amendment relating to the investor's permit. By way of comparison, in Cyprus an investment takes place immediately, in France after five years and in Malta after two years. So we see again that the extension from five to seven years will lead to Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, but in my opinion also the Netherlands, becoming unnecessarily unattractive to the group of investors who use these facilities. It has occurred on several occasions that an application for nationality was made in Aruba for a period of 10 years. That is the result of the implementation. I think there is such a thing as a manual for the implementation of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. It follows, and this is reflected in the case law, that there should be no suspicion that someone has been admitted to jurisdiction for an indefinite period of time. And from that, again, you have to have a permit for an indefinite period of time. Our admission regime, the National Admission and Expulsion Regulation (LTU), stipulates that you are only admitted to Aruba for an indefinite period after ten years of continuous admission to the jurisdiction of Aruba. That is why in Aruba, and apparently also in Curaçao, a request for nationality can only be made after ten years. A double threshold would be added by requiring that the Dutch language be mastered since 2011. I come to a conclusion with the question of how the Secretary of State feels about the two amendments proposed by the respective delegations of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. I'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group can, in short, agree with the part of the present draft law amending the state law relating to the extension of the five-to-seven-year period. The government has set a new deadline for obtaining Dutch citizenship. It takes the view that most of the citizens of the Netherlands cannot yet fully participate in Dutch society after fulfilling their obligation to become a citizen. We'll recognize that analysis. Extending the deadline would contribute to a better guarantee that someone has a real connection with the Netherlands. In line with this proposal, the CDA Group's earlier call for the temporary residence period to be extended with the status of displaced persons is particularly appropriate. The residence permit has now become too much of a legal migration tool. In view of all the points of conflict and demographic developments, refugee status should be a temporary status aimed at return. In this context, the CDA and SGP groups have proposed an amendment to provide a permanent residence status after seven years. This brings the deadline for naturalisation into line with the deadline for submitting an application for permanent residence status. However, there are reservations about this law. The question is how the government promotes more successful integration and sanctions can be imposed if integration is not achieved within the prescribed time limit. The VVD has used the last few weeks to argue that there are indeed residential consequences, while practice shows that these apply only to imams who work with a work permit in the Netherlands. For the rest, this doesn't work. Yesterday, a number of motions were adopted calling for this to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs Keijzer strongly supported this law and the extension of the naturalisation period from five to seven years. What does she think of the Council of State's criticism of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	The criticism of the Council of State is that the elements need to be explained in more detail in the explanatory memorandum. The government did this. The CDA Group agrees. It also sees in practice that integration is not complete after the deadlines that are now in place. By extending the deadline, you have a little more time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	The criticism of the Council of State went a little further than that. I would also ask Mrs Keijzer to respond to the criticism of the Council of State that this law does not in any way contribute to integration and participation. Unless the Secretary of State further supports this, we recommend that this law should not be implemented in this way. Mrs Keijzer must explain to me what motivation the government has convinced her that the law must be implemented in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	On the one hand, the deadline for naturalization goes from five to seven years. So there is simply a little more time to burgeon. On the other hand, there is a debate on how people cannot pass their integration exams. Over the past two or three weeks, we have discussed this with Minister Asscher in particular. Half of these people still haven't passed that exam after three years. Of course, there is a need to discuss this in detail. The CDA is not satisfied with that. It is also not satisfied that this does not ultimately mean that the residence permit can be withdrawn. That only applies to imams. We believe that it is right to draw conclusions from the fact that people are not doing their best. Another point which the government does not seem to have taken into account is that, after five years of lawful residence, the alien is, in principle, eligible for the European long-term resident residence permit. According to the government, the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs rightly notes that people with this permit obtain largely the same legal status as the Dutch. However, we are curious to see the differences between Dutch citizenship and this EU long-term resident residence permit. I hope the Secretary of State will go into that in detail. This bill seems to have negative consequences for expats. In our view, the introduction of the obligation to stay in the Netherlands to qualify for naturalisation has various negative effects. Problems are already present, but will be strengthened for Dutch expats who are staying outside the European Union and want to return with their partners. The Dutch who have stayed outside the European Union for more than ten years and/or have married or have lived together with a foreign partner outside the European Union automatically lose their Dutch nationality. Dutch expats will often not manage to obtain a position in their often multinational companies in the Netherlands for the three-year period now proposed. Also from a Union-wide perspective, there are considerable objections to the residence requirement for the Dutch partners. If the partner is a citizen of a non-EU Member State, the Netherlands will have to give up its right to free movement in the European Union for three years in order to meet the new three-year requirement of living in the Netherlands. If the employer does not want or can cooperate in placing him in the Netherlands, the Dutchman must not only give up his right to free movement, but also his job, or his partner or spouse must refrain from obtaining the Dutchmanship. In view of the Union citizenship of the Dutch partner, it would be more in line to impose, where appropriate, the requirement that the partner be resident in one or more of the Member States of the European Union for a period of three years. The European Union remains remarkably out of the picture in the legislative proposal. It is only noted that a former Dutch national who has a nationality of an EU Member State can naturalise through the option declaration after one year in the Netherlands. It will be much more difficult for people outside the European Union to return. I therefore ask the following questions. How are people in the next situation, for example, after this law has entered into force? A Dutchman lives and works in South Africa. He marries a South African woman there and has a child there. The man gets the South African nationality. He thus loses his Dutch nationality. At some point the family wants to go back to the Netherlands. Under what conditions can we do that? I am asking the same question about someone who, for example, is staying in the United States or Canada. What conditions must be met to get that Dutchman and his family back to the Netherlands? Is our interpretation of what the provisions proposed in the draft law will provide for the use of the right of free movement in the European Union by Dutch people with a non-Dutch spouse or partner with the nationality of a third country? This partner will be able to acquire Dutch nationality only because both partners will return to the Netherlands for a long time. Is the family subject to family reunification provisions? That's a big deal, isn't it? According to the rule in Article 15 (1) (c) of the RWN, would the stay elsewhere in the European Union not count in the loss of Dutch citizenship in the case of naturalisation under Article 8 (2) that stay in another EU Member State should be treated as residence in the Netherlands? So you do not necessarily have to have been in the Netherlands, but you could have lived in another European Member State. Does the government see any possibility of limiting the negative impact of the bill on Dutch expats with a non-Dutch spouse or partner working outside the European Union? My last topic. The CDA Group, in its written contribution, suggested that the government amend the main rule concerning the loss of Dutch nationality in the acquisition of another nationality in order to allow the Dutch who obtain that other nationality to retain or simply allow them to get it back. When I read this to you, Mr President, I realize that this is rather complicated, but I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to go into it in this way. This has a lot of consequences for the people involved; Mr Van der Staaij has already spoken about this. The government has responded negatively to this and does not want to investigate this further. It states that it is not possible to adapt the main rule in the event of the loss of Dutch citizenship without the current obligation to distance would become less effective. It would lead to the admission of the original nationality after the acquisition of Dutch citizenship. According to the Government, the legal system aims to avoid, as far as possible, the emergence of multiple nationality in the event of a change of nationality, with a few exceptions. The CDA Group also sees and shares this wish. Yet there are many nasty situations in which this has led people to experience a nasty treatment, precisely because one feels Dutcher and a stay in another country of ten years has not taken away that feeling. Once again, the CDA Group is asking the government to look favourably at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to welcome the special delegates. It is indeed remarkable to see that their naturalisation period is ten years, while we are having a heated discussion here about an extension of five to seven years. On behalf of the Christian Union Group, I have tried hard to find the usefulness and necessity of the planned extension of the deadline for the naturalisation of a person. Who is being served by this and what problems do we actually solve, other than to note that it has been agreed in the coalition agreement? Following on from the Council of State, the ACVZ, the VNG, but also in the spirit of the Refugee Convention, my group is not yet convinced of the added value of extending the naturalisation period. I hope to get more clarity from the Secretary of State. People who are legally resident here for at least five years want to be naturalized. They have sufficient ties with the Netherlands and want to participate fully in Dutch society. They want to be able to get married, they want to be able to run and they want to be able to vote. However, this bill does not show in any way how these people can further integrate. In the introduction one can still think that this should eventually lead to the promotion of integration and the acceleration of the participation of foreigners, but then there comes a remarkable part, namely: "now it's felt that..." In the last ten years I have dealt with a lot of legislative proposals, but "now it's felt that" I haven't come across in the reasoned legislative proposals of the cabinet. I cannot escape the impression that this has been a must for the Secretary of State. We also see the name of the former Secretary of State underneath. I really hope to get more reasons than that. I would like to draw particular attention to the situation of refugees. By extending the naturalisation period to seven years, the cabinet sends a negative signal to refugees who want to participate fully. Previous evaluations on the integration of refugees and leading to the work of Refugee Work The Netherlands show that this can be a major obstacle for these people to integrate and thus be able to stand on their own feet. The latter is very important for the integration of refugees, which is also evident from the last ten years. We have heard the Secretary of State react earlier to, I believe, a motion by Mr Van der Staaij. It called for permanent status to be granted not after five but after seven years. The Secretary of State said in that debate that he didn't think that was a good thing. As a reason for this, he indicated that this would not promote integration. That is why my group has co-signed an amendment from D66 to at least exclude the refugees from the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	I understand that the Christian Union does not want to extend the deadline for obtaining a permanent permanent permanent residence permit from five to seven years. How does this relate to Mr Voordewind's proposal of November 2014, which shows that the Christian Union is in favour of the deadline for war refugees going from five to seven years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	I have made a suggestion to that effect and I have done further research on it. I also looked at what the impact would be on the children. As you know, we made the children's pardon law with the PvdA back then. I didn't go through with that at the time, because I became convinced that the moment you extend the term to seven years, this is precisely going to affect the asylum children and their rooting. That is why I have come to the conviction that we should stick to those five years. I also understand that it is encouraged by many treaties and by European directives to maintain these five years. I also understand that, as far as naturalisation is concerned, the neighbouring countries also want to keep the period of five years. It is crucial not only for asylum children but also for refugees to integrate properly and to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	Many countries have a longer term than five years, even the majority of European countries, as the note on the report shows. How does the Christian Union Group then weigh up the argument that Mr Voordewind himself stated in the 2014 interview, that, also in view of the huge number of war refugees coming to Europe, that argument he mentioned at that time only helps to gain support, namely: we can handle a lot of time, but that is different from that everyone has to stay in the Netherlands permanently? Is that argument, which Mr Voordewind mentioned at the time, not actually getting much firmer over time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	If we look at today's situation, that is not the case. We're just seeing the influx go down. This has to do with Europe's actions. Again, I did a thorough research on it and indeed considered that you might be more generous in the front if you also stimulate back at the back to go back again. However, I have also been persuaded by the investigations that have been carried out. If you look at the limited number of people who have come to work over the past ten or fifteen years, you should not take another step on that by extending that period to seven years. We are dealing here with two separate issues. In this case, it is naturalization and Mr Van der Staaij is referring to extending the period of permanent residence status. In both cases, however, surveys say that this seven-year period is an obstacle to integration and to the entry into work of those people, so that they can also build an independent life. That was a convincing argument for me, coupled with the fact that it was very difficult to exclude it for children. If you exclude it for asylum children, it could be an incentive for singles or for couples living together or married couples to hope to have a child as soon as possible, because that could be the ticket for permanent status within five years. So I didn't get out of there. Thus, both in the case of naturalisation and in the case of permanent status, I stick to the five-year period for permanent status. I therefore sincerely hope that we can at least convince the Chamber with the D66 amendment to exclude refugees from it. Then I come to speak about the position of underage children, so the children from 12 to 16 years old. They are now covered by this law. This means that if children are awarded a fine or transaction from €810, they will no longer be entitled to naturalisation, at least that will be postponed for at least four years until an evaluation is carried out. That is what my group considers to be a violation of children's rights, as laid down in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That treaty states that even if there are violations, such violations, there is still a special duty to protect children's rights, even if there is a crime. We are talking about children here. I have tabled an amendment on this subject, which I think has just been distributed, aimed at excluding underage children. If that is not enough to convince the Chamber, then I have another fallback option with another amendment aimed at at at least including the possibility provisions in the law. That amendment seeks to apply this as an ultimatum medium principle. The amendment lays down that, on the basis of that principle, I shall quote them by means of three specific points: this is a naturalisation request which can be rejected after a negative public order test, but that is not an automatic one. A naturalisation application can only be rejected if the judge has imposed a juvenile detention for the maximum period, namely 12 months, instead of the fine of €810. The legislative proposal also provides for the possibility that a request for naturalisation may be rejected in the event of serious suspicion that there is not yet an irrevocable conviction. In that case, the amendment regulates the retention of the naturalisation request if the crime can indeed be punished by the maximum period for juvenile detention. That amendment will be distributed shortly. I shall conclude with the observation that I started with. It is very difficult for the Christian Union Group to be convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this bill. The extension of the naturalisation period does not promote the integration process in any way and is particularly at odds with international obligations for refugees. In addition, the legal status of underage foreigners aged between 12 and 15 years is affected. The justification of the bill therefore remains very lean. To speak in terms of asylum law, this bill is still lacking a positive force of conviction. But I await the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. The Dutchmanship is a great good, something to be proud of. It is a status that brings with it rights and obligations. It is not for nothing that we have agreed with each other that, in order to qualify for Dutch citizenship, someone must have stayed a substantial period in the Kingdom of the Netherlands and must have used that period to integrate into our society. In practice, this condition is not sufficiently met. People who haven't contributed or barely contributed can still become Dutch. Newcomers can become too easily Dutch without their full participation in our society. That is not what we intend to do with the granting of Dutch citizenship. It is therefore a good thing that there is a proposal from this government to further strengthen the demands. In short, the Dutchmanship must be earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	As Mr Azmani begins immediately very passionately, I would like to ask him the following. It is simply a question of extending the five-year period to seven years. In what way can anyone who has not previously earned Dutch citizenship and who has not really shown himself to be a national of the Kingdom of the Netherlands suddenly do so after seven years? I do not see that in any way in the simple legislative proposal that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u27	Seven years is a more substantial period of stay than, for example, five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Azmani is using some pretty big words. We must be proud of the Dutchmanship. I very much agree with him, especially as a member of this Chamber. What if someone sat with his fingers in his nose for five years; I imagine what image Mr Azmani may have in his head? How does that change after seven years? I don't see it. I'm all for integration: yes, let's go, all of us! But how does that happen in the extra two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u29	This is based on a final report of a policy survey carried out by the Planning Bureau on the degree of integration and integration and its consequences. That's what we can read back in the bill. If one is settled, this does not mean that one actually participates in society. The report makes it very clear that integration takes time. That is why I do not find it surprising that this cabinet is proposing to extend the period from five to seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u30	I want to ask the VVD a very simple question. What problem solves this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u31	I think it's a problem in society. We believe that the Dutch are a great asset. The Dutchmanship is something valuable. The Dutchmanship means that you are one of us and that society must identify with people who become Dutch. It also means that people have participated in Dutch society. This is more likely if people have to stay here for seven years in the first place than if that period is five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u32	I am really looking for it in Mr Azmani's answer, but I really do not see what broad-minded problem he is referring to here. I also see the Secretary of State laughing a bit. I don't know if that's why he's doing it or not, but it's kind of weird. The law is based entirely on a feeling of the Secretary of State, but lacks a proper motivation. The VVD's gonna back that up anyway. Can Mr Azmani tell me, if he finds it extremely important that people participate in this society and that they become fully Dutch, how this law helps them in integration and participation? I see that this law does one thing: people have to sit on their hands for another two years and pay taxes without having a say in how these taxes are ultimately spent. I find that indigestible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u33	I find it indigestible to say that people should sit on their hands for two years longer. That is not the case at all. At the moment when they are granted a right of residence in the Netherlands, although temporary, they must immediately contribute to society and immediately show that they want to participate in this society. They must also want to embrace society in this sense. That is what this legislative proposal is all about, the fact that also in society there are feelings that people can become too easily Dutch, because there are naturalisation ceremonies in various town halls for people who are wondering whether they can already become Dutch, for example because they are not yet very powerful in the Dutch language. The Dutchmanship is a treasured thing. A right of residence means immediately participating in society. I do not mind making stricter demands on Dutch citizenship. The Dutch are something we should be proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u34	I see a very different Mr Azmani here than we have heard in other debates on asylum and integration. There he was the champion of rapid integration and getting them a job. I'm referring to the previous investigations. Mr Azmani also referred to this when it comes to how long it takes asylum seekers and refugees to get a job. Now he's on the other side! Now he says, "Let them wait a little longer." Mr. Azmani knows the investigations, doesn't he? It takes longer to get a job if you're not naturalized. What's his reaction to those tests? Employers, his supporters, also want people to come into employment with a passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u35	With all due respect, but apparently the Dutch are seen as an instrument of integration. Then give the Dutch community after a year because people might go to work? No, people have to go to work when they get a right of residence in this country. Then they must contribute to society. Then they have to keep their own pants. Then they must participate in Dutch society. The Dutchmanship is something we should be proud of, a kind of cherry on the cake at the time you showed that you are a Dutchman in Dutch society. It seems to me to be a good proposal to move the deadline from five to seven years. How often do we not see that a three-year integration period is not enough? Then there will be an extension period of two years. For example, in the case of illiterate people, an additional two years is given. Then they passed the integration exam after five years. We may then be able to move to a permanent right of residence, but as far as I am concerned, there is still a higher degree of gradation, namely the Netherlands. I would like to cherish the Dutchmanship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u36	I asked if Mr Azmani knows the reports of refugee organisations and employers. They say: we are not going to take the risk if people have temporary status, because they can still be returned to the country of origin even if they have been in the Netherlands for four and a half years. They're not gonna take those risks. No integration courses will be launched for this purpose, nor will there be any incentive and further training courses. People wait until they have their passports and are naturalized. Does Mr Azmani know those reports and is he prepared to speak with all those employers from his constituency to get them ready to help all those people who have temporary status to get a job right away? Because that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u37	With all due respect, how many migrant workers does this country already know? Look at the Westland, where all people with a temporary right of residence work. So I don't know if that's such an incentive for employers. It is obviously difficult to distinguish between a permanent right of residence, an indefinite permit as it is called, and the Netherlands. That's a whole different thing. The Dutchmanship is obtained by naturalization. It's a big good; you're a full part of us. A lot of people don't even want to naturalize. I refer to second- and third-generation people, who are still resident on an indefinite residence permit, based on their relationship with their parents. They are not even Dutch and may not want to be Dutch. That does not mean that these people do not participate in this society. So the Dutchmanship is something else. You cannot make the combination in the vein of: you extend the deadline for Dutch citizenship from five to seven years and that means that people are less likely to participate in the labour market or that they do not want to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u38	The longer Mr Azmani speaks, the more I must do my best to discover some logic in his speech. We must indeed be proud of the Dutchmanship. That's right. But what logic, very sec, can Mr Azmani submit to the Chamber when it comes to extending the five-year period to seven years? Is Mr Azmani able, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to determine 'we are extending the period from five to seven years and therefore we must be more proud of Dutch citizenship'? What's the logic?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u39	A regional planning policy study on integration and participation shows that integration and integration take time. You're not here yet when you're gonna pass an integration exam. At that time, only over 40% actually participate in the labour market, while 6% only take part in training. This means that 54% do not yet participate in society at all. I think we have a receiving society. The Dutch want to see that people, once they are Dutch, actually have that connection with the Netherlands. It's kind of weird that, if that connection isn't there, people are getting Dutch anyway. That is why I am standing here and that is why I think that the proposal put forward by the cabinet is a good step in the right direction from five years to seven years. That's not weird. In 11 of the 20 countries that are parties to the European Convention on Naturalization, the period is longer than seven years. We have just heard from the people who represent the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom that the deadline is ten years. Countries such as Italy and Spain also have a ten-year deadline. Then I wonder what discussion we are having here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u40	It is of course very interesting that the VVD is selective in shopping when it comes to these things, and does not take an example of good things that other countries are doing. What is really important is that the VVD indicates that newcomers must meet a number of requirements and that the VVD quite arbitraryly indicates that we have to go from five to seven years. If you really want to do something from that logic, you should do a little more to promote integration and then you shouldn't have to put an arbitrary term on it. One could argue, for example, that people who do their best and who in their view deserve Dutch citizenship should not wait seven years, but that they should be eligible after three years. I still don't understand the logic. It's arbitrary. It is perhaps the VVD's powerhouse to show: look, the last period before we enter the elections, we do some right and some nice things for the PVV supporters, to bring them back in. But the logic is totally lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u41	The latter is completely nonsense. It's just an elaboration of what's in the coalition agreement. I believe that the coalition agreement has been concluded a little earlier than last year. Mr. Chairman. Let it be clear that the VVD therefore considers that a period of seven years before the Dutch citizenship can be obtained is more appropriate to the idea that a substantial period of stay should precede its granting. A longer term increases the chance that there has been enough time to participate in and contribute to Dutch society. We are not alone in this, as I have already indicated. So this is a step in the right direction. The bill also regulates the requirement of foreign marriage partners and of Dutch ties to the Netherlands by setting a minimum time limit for the main residence to land here. The VVD also welcomes this. If you want to become a Dutchman, you must have had your main residence here for a number of years. The first question to the Secretary of State is why it was not chosen for a period corresponding to the time limit for obtaining a continued residence permit or for an indefinite period. That's a different period, from three to five. Is it not strange that partners can become more easily Dutch than they can obtain a more independent right of residence, I ask the Secretary of State. I agree that the public order review also applies to minors from the age of 12. The VVD also considers this to be sensible now that it is connected to the adjacent areas of legislation of criminal law and foreign law, with which this also applies. Why should a serious crime such as attempted murder, manslaughter, extortion or theft by force have consequences for the right of residence of a foreigner, but not for the stronger right of Dutch citizenship? Moreover, the VVD considers that it would be a very bad signal if a stranger who has a serious crime on his conscience pending the trial or the conviction was declared Dutch. This will not be understood in our society, especially in the case of victims and relatives, and I think that is right. We are also receiving reports from foreign nationals who lose their nationality because they have assumed the nationality of the country in which they reside. Despite the fact that the Dutch Act of 1892 contains all these consequences and this is also the main rule of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap since its introduction in 1985, not everyone has thought about this. Let it be clear that in my opinion it is primarily a personal responsibility to inform you about the consequences for Dutch citizenship if you assume another nationality. However, I do wonder whether existing rules for reversing the decision, namely the fact that you have to return to the Netherlands for a year, are not too strict, especially when it comes to born and raised Dutch. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. The Dutchmanship is not a matter of course. The acquisition of Dutch citizenship with all rights and duties is something one should be proud of and what should also be cherished in strangers. The Dutchman can expect the government to handle this carefully and not lightly. The Dutchmanship is not for sale. It's not just an instrument. The Dutchmanship must be earned and embraced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. It is special to be here, even in the presence of special delegates. This joint treatment of the Rijkswet is a first step. Of course they are in our minds when dealing with subjects, motions, laws and matters that concern them. However, it is much better if they are also physically present to express their own interest here. Having said this, I'd like to move on to the bill. We are facing a huge challenge with our country. Thousands of refugees must participate fully in our society. We should make every effort to support these refugees by learning our language, recognising diplomas and removing obstacles to employment. Things which, moreover, are crystal clear that they contribute to participation, integration and integration. The cabinet does not seem to want to know about this. Instead, this law extends the naturalisation period from five to seven years. This law is unsubstantiated, it is sabotaged by the Council of State, the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the ACVZ and is perhaps an obstacle to integration. In short, it's a paper freak, which I hope doesn't make it to the finish line. First of all, the justification for extending the naturalisation period from five years to seven years. Nowhere does it become clear what problem the Secretary of State solves with this law. Nor does it make clear why he wants this, except that it is in the coalition agreement. It is perhaps not entirely true what I am saying, because the explanatory statement refers to the sense of the Secretary of State that a period of seven years is desirable. A feeling. I do not want to enter into the emotional experience of this Secretary of State, but perhaps it can be imagined that I do not feel very comfortable with this motivation. I'm not alone in that, by the way. The Council of State advises to waive this extension, the VNG and the ACVZ do not see the need either. The cabinet is still making a half-hearted attempt to keep up with a study of the Region Plan from 2013. Mr Azmani just mentioned that. I certainly don't want to affect the research of the Region Plan. However, I would like to question the way in which the cabinet interprets this investigation and relies on only one study, one study that does not even mention the naturalisation period, let alone recommends that it be extended. A study that only concludes that the time factor can have a positive effect on integration and participation of foreigners. That sounds pretty weedy to me. A study that even built in a disclaimer on this broad conclusion, namely: it cannot be excluded that this is because citizens who have passed the route earlier and faster were simply more motivated and perhaps smarter than those who took longer. A study that also came out after the 2012 government agreement, which already included this extension. Apparently, after that, in a sort of desperate search for arguments, there was a search that was only published a year later. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State on which the extension as mentioned in the government agreement is actually based. What is the added value of this? How is this compatible with the other agreement in the government agreement, namely that rapid integration is being promoted? The answer is simple: that is not rhymeable. As far as I am concerned, extending this deadline is of no use in promoting effective integration and integration. In fact, I would like to argue exactly the opposite today. Naturalisation can contribute to the participation of people in our society. As soon as people become Dutch, they can participate fully. I didn't hear the colleague of the VVD just now. All professions, voting in elections and really free travel, that is certainly very important. What's the result of research? That refugees who are naturalized find a job much more than refugees with asylum status. Research! That research states that Dutch citizenship is even a prerequisite for truly successful integration. Another investigation I'm not hearing from the cabinet about. Naturalisation, of course, is not the end of integration; it is an important milestone in integration. Of course, language and work are important factors in this. This Secretary of State wants to change a naturalisation period that has been in use since 1892 on the basis of a flimsy foundation. I like to get a response to the question of what this means to many people's lives. How many people will be affected by this bill? How many refugees will have to wait longer for Dutch citizenship? How much larger will the group of non-Dutch people be who cannot fully participate in Dutch society? How many Dutch expats with foreign partners should now settle in the Netherlands before their partner can start naturalizing? How many foreign expats, who add something to our society, are less likely to naturalize? How many Dutch diplomats, businessmen, knowledge workers, development workers, scientists and students are affected by this? How many former Dutch can no longer get their nationality back from abroad? How many more Dutch people have to pay taxes and contribute to our society for two years without being represented in parliament? All these people are affected by this proposal, which is based on a feeling. I like to get a response from the Secretary of State per question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u43	I was just chewing on the appeal on 1892. D66 actually says: this has been so settled in the law since 1892, and then you have to come from a good house to change that. Is it a broader reasoning pattern of the D66 group, that if there are old laws, you have to be very careful to say goodbye to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u44	That is a good and also humorous question from colleague Van der Staaij. I know what he's talking about. The reason I'm quoting this is because you have to explain why you're changing certain things. Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij agrees with me. Sometimes that is very desirable. You know that my party has fought for a number of very major reforms in recent years, with us as parties facing each other. That was about marriage for everyone and matters like euthanasia. I know that we do not find each other there, and I also know that this was based on laws that were very old and that we wanted to amend. That is why it is so important that, if you change something, you justify why that change is necessary and why exactly that change and not another change. That is what we did at the time in these legal proceedings, but that is what I do not want here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u45	I think it's a healthy conservative premise that if you don't have good reasons to change anything, you have to keep it the way it is. But let me ask you a different question about the European legal point of view. D66 wants uniformity in Europe on all kinds of points. How does Mr Sjoerdsma look at the fact that naturalisation periods vary so much across Europe? Could not a certain harmonisation of deadlines be more favourable, clearer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u46	I think that from a conservative point of view is quite an interesting consideration, also because Mr Van der Staaij may be surprised to see that 14 of the 28 EU Member States have the naturalisation period of five years or less. So if we were to harmonise, I fear that the European Union will be closer to what my party is in favour of than the SGP. But I'd like to pass this suggestion on to the Secretary of State. Perhaps he can then take it with him in the amendment of this law. Finally, I have a few proposals to minimise the damage caused by this law. Delaying naturalisation and not allowing people to participate for two years is anything but conducive to the integration of thousands of refugees into our country. Colleagues have already mentioned this in their contributions. International law also requires refugees to be naturalised as soon as possible. That is why, together with the SP, the Christian Union and GroenLinks, I have tabled an amendment aimed at excluding refugees from this extended period. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this amendment. I also noticed that this bill has no transitional right. Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij will also address this. Let me raise the question a little more. Is the cabinet seriously going to tell someone who has been legally resident here for four years and eleven months and who meets all the requirements: sorry, we have just amended the law, do you only wait two years longer? During the game change the rules, my group does not like that. That is why I would like to table an amendment together with the SP, the Christian Union, GroenLinks and Mr Kuzu's group to ensure that this law does not enter into force until people enter the Netherlands after entry into force. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Today, of course, we are talking not only about the naturalisation period, but also about some euphemistic changes. That sounds harmless, but for the average expat in the Netherlands or a Dutchman abroad this can have far-reaching consequences. Partners of Dutch people, for example, have to wait three years with this law before they can naturalize. Following on from Mr Keijzer from the CDA, I would like to ask why the choice was made here to require stay within the Netherlands and not stay within the European Union. Should not residence in an EU Member State be equivalent to residence in the Netherlands in accordance with Article 8 (2) RWN? Does this not make the life of Dutch expats with a foreign partner unnecessarily difficult? I think that's something this cabinet shouldn't want. I'm coming up with something positive. I welcome the fact that living together is aligned with marriage and a registered partnership. I would indeed welcome the rapid introduction of the registered partnership on the islands as well. I do wonder why this should be harmonised at the lowest level. I am therefore tabling an amendment which regulates the introduction of as short a naturalisation period as possible. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Dutch people abroad are often made unnecessarily difficult, especially if they want to return to the Netherlands with a foreign partner. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that he probably has another commitment open. At the request of D66, he would talk to expatriate associations about the obstacles that Dutch people now experience if they want to return to the Netherlands. Has he had these conversations yet? If so, what results have these talks produced? Old Dutch people abroad can no longer be naturalized by this law. They have to opt for Dutch citizenship through foreign law. Can the Secretary of State back that up? Why is that necessary? I find it all the more painful because the Ombudsman's investigation shows that people often lose their Dutch identity without knowing it, partly because of a lack of information from the government. Is the Secretary of State prepared to follow the Ombudsman's recommendation and to set up an apology scheme? I would strongly encourage that. I have two questions on the proposal to apply the public order test to 12- to 16-year-olds. One: how is the child's interest guaranteed? Two: how does that relate to Articles 3 and 40 (1) of the Convention on the Rights of the Child? Finally. I fear that this law will lead to a postponement of integration, to an obstacle to the free movement of Dutch people, to an obstacle to the mobility of Dutch expats and to a double punishment of children between 12 and 16 years of age, all on the basis of a feeling of the Secretary of State. Let me be clear: I have no feelings for this at all. So I say reconsider this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. The room looks nice today. Finally, a little more diversity in this Chamber. Finally, a little more color. I would like to thank our colleagues from the Caribbean. I would like to welcome them. I would like to ask them first if they have ever heard of the word 'naturalisandi'. I noticed that word in the pieces. This is typically the policy jargon that we encounter here in the Hague documents. They are words that have a neutral technocratic sound, but they do not really make you realize that they are people. The word "naturalisandi" is not even in the Fat Van Dale and neither is the word "naturalisandus." It is nice that we have a visit from the Caribbean Netherlands, but unfortunately the occasion of the Caribbean visit is a sad one. The Netherlands was always an open society, but that is changing. On the one hand, the government makes it increasingly difficult for people to get Dutch citizenship, while on the other hand it makes it easier and easier to take away Dutch citizenship. That's the grim xenophobic wind blowing through the Netherlands. The Netherlands is beginning to judge, harden and undermine more and more. The Netherlands is increasingly being dragged along by a xenophobic windhoos. I remember when I was an 11-year-old boy, I had to go to the municipality to get me naturalized. I ended up with a city clerk who asked me some questions. Then we had a whole talk about football, about Ajax and Feyenoord. After a conversation of half an hour I was able to be Dutch. If nowadays I hear the VVD say that the Dutchmanship is something you should claim and you should be proud of, I agree. If you compare that with ten, fifteen years ago or with the period when I was an 11-year-old boy, that's 25 years ago now, and that says something about the atmosphere of the country, about what we're doing. 'Cause what's today about? The government's gonna weigh down the naturalization process. You now have to live in the Netherlands for seven years instead of five years to claim the Dutch citizenship. Can the Secretary of State tell us anything about the origins of this bill? Is it true that we are dealing with a weakened version of the legislative proposals from the Rutte I cabinet, with a watered down plague measure? How did this happen in the negotiations on the coalition agreement? Did the VVD want to weigh down to ten years, but did the PvdA want to stick with the current five years and have they come out in seven years? Have they played hand-to-hand with the Dutchmanship that Mr Azmani is so proud of? I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State. We are opposed to the increase of five years to seven years. With this bill you will only make the integration and integration of a very large group more difficult. We are talking about future Dutch. We agree with the criticism of the Council of State, the criticism of the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the criticism of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs. You might wonder who's not actually criticizing it. All I see is the right flank of the House of Representatives. The said organisations do not see the need to increase the naturalisation requirements at all. They don't see what the problem is. In their view, the current system works fine. Moreover, you are only in the way of integration by weighing down the demands. It's counterproductive. The VNG says that the group of Dutch who cannot fully participate in this society will be increased by this bill. That's consistent with what we hear from civilians. I'm quoting an Iranian woman who wrote to us worried. It is a comprehensive quote, but we think it is important to make the voice of citizens heard. "To leave foreigners in uncertainty for seven years, to give the feeling of temporaryity and to grant less rights to so-called participation and integration of the stranger, is counterproductive." This is neat Dutch by the way! "The stranger, including me, strongly gets the feeling that he is a second-class citizen and that he is standing in the margins of society. This law frustrates and prevents any form of participation and integration. Despite the fact that I live in the Netherlands for ten and a half years, I cannot vote, be politically active, not buy a house, not take a loan or mortgage, not work with the police, defense and countless other public bodies, not travel freely and not work and live wherever I want, because I do not have a Dutch nationality. I have personally experienced the above-mentioned facts. Several times I've been rejected for my nationality. Even for volunteering with the police, I was rejected because of my nationality. I have often been rejected because I am in possession of a temporary residence permit." Without Dutch nationality it is therefore very difficult to participate. You're a quarter Dutch instead of a whole Dutchman. You're being restrained and limited in all kinds of ways. But what does the government say about this? She literally says: "The possession of Dutch nationality is not, in the government's opinion, a necessity for rapid integration or participation in the labour market." This seems to us to be a very clear example of a theoretical reality, a paper reality. Unfortunately, the government lives in that theoretical reality. The powerhouse of the VVD must of course apply. 'Cause of course it matters which nationality is on your résumé. I'm asking the Secretary of State to respond to this accusation. Isn't he too much in the theoretical, paper reality? Does he not see what limitations people have when they are not of Dutch nationality, with the demands we make of Dutch citizenship? Does he not see how this makes the participation of a future group of Dutch people more difficult? I shall return to the example. This Iranian woman has been in the Netherlands for ten and a half years, but does not yet have Dutch nationality. Why is that? That's because she's got a so-called hole of residence. You can only make a request for naturalisation if you live in the Netherlands for a continuous period of residence with a valid residence permit. However, by means of a procedure for a residence permit, this woman's time has been split. Then you are the bitch; then you don't count in the Netherlands and you don't qualify for Dutch citizenship. That is why we ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to change that rule, to take out that continuous period and, for example, to make it a seven-year period over the last 12 years. We do not agree with the amendment of the bill, but we hope that the Secretary of State will make such an adjustment. This could help many people who have lived in the Netherlands for a long time. How does he feel about this? Would he like to take a positive view of an amendment on this point? Mr Sjoerdsma made a number of valid comments on the entry into force. I am not going to repeat it; I fully endorse it. However, I would like to make a brief comment on the double size. Several parties have asked in the note on the basis of the report for possibilities for the Dutch to retain their Dutch citizenship if they assume a different nationality and not for the Netherlands to automatically lapse, while some of the same political parties call for people who become Dutch to surrender their original nationality. What a double size! Luckily, the government won't go along with this. We appreciate that. It will not have escaped anyone's notice that we are opposed to this bill. It hinders participation rather than it promotes it. We therefore propose that the deadline should not be extended from five years to seven years, but that it should be reduced from five years to three years. To this end, we are considering tabling an amendment. The Netherlands must become an open society again. The Netherlands must open up to the world instead of retreating into its little self.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u48	I agree with what Mr Kuzu says from A to Z, but at the same time I do wonder. If this is so fundamental for the independent Member of Parliament Kuzu, why did we not hear him when, among other things, GroenLinks raised this issue in various budget debates in 2012? At that time, there were many possibilities for this Member of Parliament to raise this issue at the time. So I'd like to hear that from this Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u49	During the period from 2012 to 2014, you will not have missed the fact that we were in a group where we had a lot of internal discussion on these issues. One of these subjects was the ridiculous proposal in the coalition agreement on this subject. A number of colleagues sitting here in the Chamber can confirm that. We have made an internal effort not to allow this proposal to go through. I also find it surprising that the VVD and the PvdA are expressing themselves in this respect at the end of the reigning period. We, along with Mr Öztürk, and also with a number of members of the PvdA Group who object to this, I can tell you that we have made a hard effort not to allow this to happen. Unfortunately, this bill is now there and today we are discussing the amendment of this bill. I'm gonna say my piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u50	That is, of course, Mr Kuzu's right. As I said, we agree, but I think it would have been logical if Mr Kuzu and possibly others, when the coalition agreement was presented, had immediately indicated that this was a matter of principle for them and that they did not agree with it. I think that would have made sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u51	I can tell you that we have had strong internal discussions about this, and I have also stated internally that I could not support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u52	I too was interested in this point. Mr Kuzu is now taking such a strong tone, but at the beginning he was still working well in a political group that had concluded the coalition agreement. Has he radicalised himself in the course of time on this point or has he not initially come out and has he actually said from day one that he could not actually work with this coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u53	Many parts of the coalition agreement have been criticised. Mr Van der Staaij used the word "good," but if I had been so good, we could have avoided all the misery we experienced in November 2014. We have made strong internal criticisms of a number of aspects. I refer to the criminalisation of illegality and the night of Dommov, the asylum seeker who hanged himself. The latter led to a motion of censure against the then Secretary of State. I can make the list for a long time, but I'm gonna unpack a few. I would also like to mention this point and countless points of integration. We have been very critical of this at the time when we were members of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the colleagues who have welcomed the delegates. Naturalisation is the crown of the integration process in the Netherlands. As an eighteen-year-old I was in the Netherlands for ten years when I, still with pen and paper, wrote a letter to then Queen Beatrix asking me to become a Dutchman. I had grown there and I noticed that it would be an improvement. After all, I got my letters in which I applied to specific professions, back with a thick red circle to the word "Morocco" on the item "nationality." At that time I could not suspect that twenty years later I would be the host of festivities on the occasion of naturalization when people from all over the world come to City Hall to take the oath. This is an event with family, flowers and photos that resembles our initiation in this Chamber and the graduation ceremony of our children. It was allowed after five years, and now it's going to be seven. My group will not interfere with these agreements in the coalition agreement. Fortunately, the bill is better than it was a few years ago. I am looking for opportunities to make the best of this and to make good use of these two extra years for the participation of the group of foreigners who have a permanent status after five years. Does the Secretary of State want to come up with an offer, a challenge for this group; an offer that challenges them to further explore Dutch language and culture as a prospective Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u55	I heard Mr Marcouch's fine introduction, but then he moved on to his further text saying that the Labour Party will not interfere with this part of the coalition agreement. Then I got the feeling that the PvdA Group might not be entirely happy with this law. Can I ask Mr Marcouch why the Labour Party is actually in favour of this law? What problem do we solve with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u56	This is not the law with which we would have come, but this is an agreement in the coalition agreement under which our signature is signed. A deal is a deal, and that's why we're in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr Marcouch is so honest in putting this on the table. I can only compliment him on that. At the same time, this bewilders me. I get it: a deal is a deal, but I think this deal goes against the spirit of his party. That agreement goes against the spirit of my party, the SP and GroenLinks. This agreement will also have major negative consequences for many prospective Dutch people, such as Mr Marcouch. Does he not see a chance to say: this is not my law and let us not do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u58	The proposal that was put forward was far more radical. I think Mr Sjoerdsma knows that. That proposal made demands in terms of resources, qualifications and so on. In fact, so many demands were made that it was almost impossible to become a Dutchman. It was our commitment to ensure that it would eventually become a reasonable proposal. It's two more years to wait here. That is not ideal; I admit that. However, you do have a permanent residence permit. So you can work as a resident of the Netherlands, with education, with work. You can participate fully. And yes, you can't do some things because you don't have Dutch nationality. I was just sketching it. Compared to the previous proposal, which has been withdrawn with our commitment, this proposal is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u59	I also have a question for Mr Marcouch. I heard Mr Azmani praise this bill a moment ago. Better integration is the goal. It's actually more of a stick behind the door. Could I hear from Mr Marcouch once again how he thinks this bill will contribute to better integration and how this bill might undermine better and rapid integration of people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u60	Integration is a process. I believe that society should make provision for this. It must facilitate and challenge. Integration, however, is also something that the person concerned does. He strives to embrace the new country rationally and emotionally. The two years you have to wait for now, you can make good use of that. That is why I asked the Secretary of State a question about this. Groups that are not obliged to integrate, for example, could use these two years to deepen themselves in the Netherlands. I am thinking not so much of integration requirements, but of literature, of a deepening of the language and of the country that will soon become your country completely and fully by naturalization. Those two years you can make a very positive use of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u61	We share that completely, and I am not surprised. I also agree with these concepts: facilitating on the one hand and making efforts on the other. I think Mr Marcouch used those words. We must facilitate this from the government and the person who wants to become Dutch must make an effort. We probably agree that this law alone is not going to settle that. Can I ask Mr Marcouch what commitments he has already received from the Secretary of State or what promises he hopes to get today so that people can and will become better involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr Gesthuizen is asking a little too early. I'm just asking the Secretary of State. I hope to receive assurances in the Secretary of State's term. In any case, I intend to table motions calling on the government not to leave those two years empty and to do something good with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u63	I would like to hear from Mr Marcouch what indications he has that people are not sufficiently integrated after five years. Why the extra two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u64	I didn't say that. People can be very qualified after three years. That's very individual. In my opinion, Mr Kuzu said the same thing. I myself experienced a naturalization ceremony in which people became Dutch who could barely take the oath. However, there were also fathers who had a busy job and were full-bodied in society. I believe that the two years that people have to wait longer can be used by groups in society that are not obliged to be citizens. Maybe they don't master the Dutch language so well that they can get that Dutchness. These two years can then be completed with a deepening in Dutch culture, in Dutch language, in the Dutch system and in politics. If you are Dutch, you can vote. Filling out the two years in that way: that's what I've got in mind. Then it doesn't have to be an empty period where you just wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr Marcouch wants these two years to be added value. It is not clear to me what people who have been well integrated after three or four years. They're just getting the statement that it's going to take them two more years to fit in, right? It is all the more sad that this cabinet, with the support of the Labour Party and Mr Marcouch, says to people who have been fully settled after three or four years, 'wait a little longer to be able to be part of it'. Those two years aren't gonna get them anything, they're just gonna push them further away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u66	I agree with my colleague that we must wait two years longer. But it is not just a question of people qualifying in terms of integration and integration, it is also a matter of time. Those deadlines are not new either: until now it has been five years, now it is being extended by two years. This uncertainty factor is very relative, because after five years people simply get a permanent residence permit for an indefinite period. Contrary to what some people have just said, these people do not have to constantly fear that they may be deported. That's not the issue, but they'll have to wait two more years. I want not only to wait two years longer, but to ask the people who want to do so, because naturalisation remains, of course, a choice of course, to go further into Dutch society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u67	I appreciate Mr Marcouch's honesty. He indicated that this bill did not come from the PvdA's case, but from the VVD's case. So I appreciate his honesty about that, but no matter how much he tries to clean it up, it's still an ugly bill. Does he agree with me that this bill remains basically ugly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Kuzu knows that there was a much uglier proposal before this. In a sense, it's negative, because people have to wait two years longer. But of course you can make good use of those two years to prepare for the Dutchmanship. The Netherlands is not the only country in which deadlines are imposed on people who want to naturalize; this happens in any country. Compared to the proposal that was already before us, I am therefore pleased with this proposal, because the previous proposal made it virtually impossible to become Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u69	So you agree with me that this bill remains ugly. From the past, however, I can remember legislative proposals, for example, on the criminalisation of illegality, which were swept off the table by the PvdA Group and in which the PvdA Group negotiated with the VVD in such a way that they ceased to operate. Have you deliberately chosen not to wipe this bill off the table, or were you unable to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr Kuzu is responsible for the words 'ugly bill'. This bill is just an arrangement from the coalition agreement. That is what it says, we are in favour of this agreement, and that is why I am defending this proposal. But there's something negative in it, because people have to wait two years longer. Everyone agrees with that. You can characterize that as something negative, but you can also say that those two years that have to be waited longer must be used well. So let's think about how we can fill in those two years in such a way that the prospective Dutch use this period well by learning the language, by getting to know society, by reading literature, and by at least developing some kind of emotional connection with the Netherlands. The whole process of integration and citizenship is an ongoing process, which is not limited to five or seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u71	I too would like to thank Mr Marcouch for his honesty and openness. He said that we did not have to do this; we should make it work, but we are having a debate to see how we can make this law as reasonable as possible. I therefore ask Mr Marcouch whether he agrees with us and D66 that the law should exclude the situation of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u72	That's not what we're here for. It is very simple: the agreement we are talking about simply does not allow for that. Moreover, I am at least reassured by the fact that, after five years, refugees are granted permanent residence status. For them too, they are integrating into this new country and that they can make good use of these two years to eventually acquire Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u73	Then there's still a problem. Mr Kuzu said the same thing. If you have a permanent residence status but are not naturalized, it remains difficult to get a job. However, we look forward to Mr Marcouch's other plans. Then the point of the 12- to 16-year-olds remains. I expect Mr Marcouch to be able to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u74	I come to that in my contribution. Moreover, I do not share the observation that if you do not have Dutch nationality, you cannot get to work. It is true that you are not allowed to practice certain professions, but that also requires more than just your nationality. I have just advocated, in my response to an interruption, that these two years should be properly completed. That seems to me to be good for the whole of the Netherlands, because where integration is, trust is and where there is trust is civilization. Without integration, no progress. When people have been here for five years, they have various personal histories with the Netherlands. Older mothers who can hardly pronounce the naturalization oath stand next to young fathers with a busy job in the Netherlands. I think almost all mayors recognize this image. Therefore, in this extended preparation period, a wide range of offers is important. For example, Turkish Dutch people have never received integration education through a European treaty. They sometimes want to need a second-chance course. Others benefit from workshops on literature, in order to develop an emotional relationship with the Netherlands that goes beyond usefulness and necessity. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with an offer that offers customization rather than clothing? After a five-year residence status, people will benefit from further deepening after the integration process. That appears to be a widely shared "feelings." I am considering a motion on this point and I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. New in this bill is the plan to deny children from 12 to 15 years of age the right to naturalisation if they are suspected of a criminal offence. While their parents, brothers and sisters become Dutch, this does not apply to them for four years. How serious are these crimes that young people are suspected of? What do you mean, suspicious without a conviction? I think it goes too far to refuse Dutch citizenship to such young children. For crimes, we have criminal justice. Only when it has been proven that these young people are and will remain a danger to society will naturalisation not be the first thing you think of. But as far as I am concerned, we are talking about young people who have actually been convicted of serious crimes. Is the Secretary of State prepared to direct this so-called public order test for minors to convicted, severely criminal young people who are a proven danger to our society? I am considering submitting an amendment to this effect. Finally, something which may be outside the scope of this legislative proposal. Many new Dutch Europeans do not have to give up their original nationality if they become Dutch. We grant this to all Dutch, including the Dutch abroad. As far as we are concerned, they never have to face the terrible discovery that they lost their Dutchmanship when they became Canadian or had their passport expired in Australia. Our law does have opportunities to get the Dutch back, but why should we lose it anyway? I think that's the wrong signal. The National Ombudsman has recently reported on this. If the Secretary of State is going to respond to this, he will be able to broaden his response, including on this subject. What is anno against a dual nationality for Dutch people? Nothing, many other countries say. The main rule of 1892 that you lose Dutch citizenship when accepting another nationality is dated. Does the Secretary of State wish to shed light on the usefulness and necessity of this basic rule, and also to pay attention to the contemporary advantages of dual nationality? As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to do that right now. I prefer to see a well-founded and independently conducted research that also involves foreign experiences. Can the Secretary of State undertake to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u75	I see Mr Sjoerdsma wants to interrupt. I would ask all colleagues to be brief, because the clock is ticking and tonight we also need to go further in order to conclude this debate. So briefly, Mr Sjoerdsma, and I would like a brief answer from Mr Marcouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yeah, but this is really an important law. I was not actually going to do the interruptions any shorter than is necessary, of course, with your permission. This is about something. This isn't just any law that we should go through between the nose and the lips for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u77	That is why a lot of time has been allocated. And now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u78	I have the following question to ask Mr Marcouch. This law has no transitional provision or right of transition. This means that in practice, for example, you could run into the fact that people who have been here for four and eleven months and who actually meet all the criteria for naturalisation are told when this law enters into force: wait only two years longer. Does Mr Marcouch agree with me that it would be reasonable for this law to apply only to those who enter the Netherlands after the entry into force of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u79	I heard Mr Sjoerdsma put that question to the Secretary of State. I believe that there should be a reasonable transitional period and that there should be no unjust effect. So I am very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State on this point, before deciding whether or not I support an amendment by Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u80	That curiosity about what the Secretary of State is going to say, of course, I share. I'm sure we're gonna hear it out of his mouth. However, Mr Marcouch also says here: I am in favour of a reasonable transitional period. However, that transitional period is not now covered by this law. Apart from the question of whether or not Mr Marcouch is going to support my amendment, I ask him if he can explain what the PvdA sees as a reasonable transitional period. I am very much looking for a link with the PvdA about something that I do not think is laid down in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u81	If the law is through all procedures and is in the State's news, then it seems reasonable to me that people can somehow anticipate this law. I particularly find the question of what you do to people who are just on the verge of those five years interesting. That is also a political question. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr. Chairman. It is said that a longer term would do more justice to the feeling that there is a connection with the Netherlands and that people would then be better settled. The final report on integration and participation concludes that citizens are not yet fully involved in society after fulfilling their obligation to integrate. The cabinet concludes that something needs to be done about this. The SP also attaches great importance to integration and integration. It would be enthusiastic if this government were finally to make good work of it with effective measures. However, I read that the government does not want to use additional instruments to encourage newcomers to be sufficiently integrated and participate in society within the existing five-year period if the cabinet so wishes. No, the cabinet seems to think: we extend the deadline and then it all goes by itself. The aim of this bill is to ensure, better than at present, that those who want to be eligible for Dutch citizenship are integrated into the Netherlands and fully participate in society. But what is "full participation" according to the cabinet? Is that speaking Dutch and having a job flawlessly? Luckily, I predict that today I am not alone in saying that a longer-term will act against people. They will be in uncertainty for longer. That won't help. This will not contribute to good integration, to getting a job and to learning the language properly. What does the cabinet say that the longer term is going to do? According to the SP, there must be real investment in language learning and job creation. In this way, integration must be raised to a higher level. Unfortunately, with this draft law, the cabinet seems to respond primarily to the sentiments in society, the sentiments of people who want to exclude or exclude foreigners. It is also ineffective for the real purpose: better integration, more solidarity and connection between people, a more pleasant society, where we do not stand opposite each other or with our backs to each other, but on the side side, sharing the most important values with each other. But the cabinet considers the integration to be a responsibility of its own. Integration education is in the hands of private companies and is also tested by a private label. In the first half of 2013, 2,105 people became required to enter the labour market. Half of these people haven't been able to pass an integration exam. If you keep them waiting longer, they're not suddenly integrated. How will the government address this problem? The SP believes that the government is responsible for integration education. Let's stop with private agencies and a private label. We call for accessible integration education and cared educational institutions. We want the education authorities to monitor this. What is the government's reaction to this? Is it prepared to examine the possibilities for this? I am also anxious to see what will be in the possible motions of the colleague of the Labour Party. In the explanatory statement, the government speaks of the feeling that this period would be better and admits that those seven years are also arbitrary. Colleagues have rightly expressed their surprise about this. I will. A feeling therefore serves as a basis for a far-reaching kingdom law, a law amendment that deeply interferes with people's lives. Why would that law be based on a feeling? I hope the Secretary of State realizes that a woman wouldn't get away with this in this Chamber. I wonder if the Secretary of State has been able to come up with a better reason during the time we are working on this law. Why is this extension of the deadline necessary at all? Is the feeling that after five years there is no substantial connection with the Netherlands? How does this relate to the EU directive, which, after five years of lawful residence, does have a substantial link with Europe and thus entitles it to permanent residence status? Why should there be this feeling after five years and here in the Netherlands only after seven years? Why not eight years, or six years, or ten or maybe twenty or twenty or twenty-five years? Does the Secretary of State really not see that we are going in the wrong direction with this kind of legislative proposal, that we are creating discord? In addition, the current deadline is a lot less arbitrary than that of seven years. The deadline is now the same as the deadline set by the Long-Term Residents Directive, which means that after five years a person is eligible for both an EU residence permit and a Dutch nationality. The SP has previously asked what the effect will be for a group of people who do have a permanent right of residence, but not Dutch nationality. Will this not have an opposite effect on integration and participation? Locking out, leaving people longer in uncertainty, that's what a longer term does. A residence permit can be withdrawn, not the Netherlands, or not so easily. That means people can't vote, they can travel less easily, they can't buy a house and they can't work in public bodies. They can't even volunteer with our police. Why shouldn't these people who have been here for five years and have the right to stay here just become full Dutch? That is the solution that we must find under the line, all of us, isn't it? Why does the government choose to keep these people out for another two years, especially when refugees, for example, are so eager to be part of it? I'm fine with simplifying the law. I understand that exceptions will be removed if they are really unnecessary. That is why I asked in writing how often the various exceptional cases still occur. Unfortunately, I have not yet received an answer. Let me ask you again. Can the Secretary of State tell us how many times there is still an appeal to the exceptions that are now to be removed? Isn't it an option to examine this first and then delete it? I am also curious to see how the longer proposed seven-year period for refugees corresponds to the much shorter three-year period for stateless persons. Refugees too are often de facto stateless. They fled because they can no longer derive rights from their own nationality. I'd like a response. In addition, the Government states that by removing a lower fee for refugees it fulfils an obligation under the Refugee Convention, but the European Convention on Nationality also states that the period and procedure should be relaxed. How does the Secretary of State deal with these points? Finally, the public policy review. Do I understand that children between the ages of 12 and 16 could not be naturalized from now on because they are being investigated for serious crimes? What if that investigation doesn't lead to prosecution or conviction? Can they still be naturalized as minors, or should they wait until they reach the age of majority? Are there perhaps twelve-year-olds who are not allowed to be naturalized with their parents because they were being investigated, and who then have to wait six years before they can apply for naturalisation on their own? I'd like some clarity on this point. I will conclude by saying that I think this is a strange legislative proposal, the aim of which I cannot properly define. Uncomfortable, arbitrary legislation and arbitrary deadlines based on feeling. That's not the basis for this kind of legislation, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. A warm welcome to the special delegates. Yesterday we personally shook hands with another bill. The amendment we are discussing today is a slight improvement on the current situation. The deadline for becoming a Dutchman is extended from five to seven years. We very much welcome that, but we think that a seven-year deadline is still too flexible. The Dutchmanship is not just anything. Dutch nationality is something to be proud of, something to deliver an achievement for. We must not be too light-hearted about this. Getting Dutch must become an ambition: something of blood, sweat and tears. Something that shows the morality of wanting to work hard and to contribute to society. Something you've been preparing for for for years in your own country, as so many immigrants have done the other way around. Indeed, the reward can come after ten years. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? If it is up to the PVV, the deadline goes to ten years, as I said, because that deadline also applies in Spain and Italy. It's been mentioned before. That's a good term. Why did the cabinet not go ahead immediately, I ask the Secretary of State, and for that longer period of ten years opted for obtaining Dutch nationality? In our eyes, it's a missed opportunity. We are considering tabling an amendment on this point, but first we await the response of the Secretary of State. As I just said, Dutch nationality is not something. If it is up to the PVV, Dutch nationality must be earned, by making an active contribution to Dutch society. Ten years of legal work before one can claim that precious property, Dutch nationality, or seven years if that becomes the current residence period. In 2012 there was a proposal from the cabinet that provided for this. Unfortunately, that proposal has been withdrawn again, but the PVV would like these conditions to be taken up again. Because I fear that the cabinet is not prepared to do so, we are also considering an amendment on this point. Of course, the PVV wants a Dutch passport to never, ever, be issued to a criminal. That is an important point. The bill stipulates that minors from 12 to 16 years of age may also be convicted of a crime if they wish to become Dutch. But the four-year limitation period remains intact. Then we get into trouble, because it means that if a crime was committed five years ago, one can still become more Dutch. We find that incomprehensible. Here too, we are considering an amendment, because people who have committed a crime during their stay in the Netherlands should never be eligible for naturalisation. The PVV finds it nonsense that husbands and partners of Dutch people can still become Dutch after three years of stay in the Netherlands. Why does anyone from Morocco who has been brought to the Netherlands by his Moroccan-Dutch wife, unlike other migrants, get Dutch citizenship after three years? It is precisely the partner and family migrants who are poorly integrated, according to various studies. It is therefore a mystery to the PVV why that category is being pampered. That is why we are considering an amendment on this point. Unfortunately, the cabinet holds it possible for large groups of people to retain their old nationality, next to Dutch citizenship. Large groups of people can call themselves Dutch, without adapting to Dutch society and sharing Dutch values and/or standards. The PVV doesn't want that. It must not be possible for people other than Dutch nationality to have another nationality. There should be no exceptions, even if it is impossible to renounce the other nationality. After all, we see the problems of dual nationality. Indeed, conflicting sets of rights and obligations must be respected. The countries of origin thus hold their nationals in the Netherlands far too much in their grip. Take as an example the integration problems we have with Turks in the Netherlands and the influence of Islamofacist Erdogan on these Turks. When Ebru Umar was arrested in Turkey a while ago, the social media was shouted loudly by these Lower Turks. That is not surprising either, since Turks in the Netherlands, with about 70% of the voters, are in favour of their dictator Erdogan. This grip of the Turkish government on Dutch Turks is precisely because of this Turkish citizenship, which they can retain, and also of course because of the influence from Ankara, which we allow through Diyanet, the connected mosques, the broadcasting of imams and the many associations under Turkish influence. But that's another debate. Therefore, no more double nationality, if it is up to the PVV. Finally, of course, we hope that the number of naturalisations will decrease dramatically in the future, once the borders for asylum seekers have finally been closed and an immigration stop for people from Islamic countries has entered into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u84	We are diametrically opposed to each other in substance, so I do not need to talk about that. I was wondering whether the PVV Group would now vote in favour of this proposal, because in the eyes of the PVV it is a step in the right direction or a vote against it because it does not go far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u85	We see it as a second best.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u86	Clear. I think the PvdA and the VVD will be very pleased with that in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-08-tweedekamer-3.u87	This brings us to the end of this first term. I think that as MPs, we all thought it was special to be able to talk together with the delegates of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten in one session. We're just gonna move on tonight.
