ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u1	I warmly welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and give Mr Wilders the floor as the first speaker and applicant for this debate on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. According to the Belgian authorities, two terrorist suspects, possibly on 13 November last year, arrived in Paris on the day of those terrible terrorist attacks, with a Eurolines bus from Brussels to Amsterdam. Meanwhile, they have been arrested in Belgium, together with one of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris and Brussels. According to the French newspaper Le Monde, they are Syrians, who entered Europe via the asylum influx. They would have even booked a hotel in Amsterdam. Is that right? Can the Minister confirm or deny that? 'Cause I can't find anything about that hotel in his letter. I'd like a response. Have these two people been here at all? Because that is not clear from the letter either. If they were here, did the minister know that they were part of the terrorist group around Abdeslam, the man who committed the mass murders in Brussels and Paris? Did they actually have Schiphol as a possible terrorist object in their sights? Please answer me, because the letter doesn't clarify that either. In his letter, the Minister states that there are no grounds for an independent Dutch criminal investigation. What exactly does he mean by that? That they were here and he doesn't want to investigate? Does he have proof they weren't here? Or does he say we're not doing it because the Belgians are already doing it? Vagueness, vagueness, vagueness. I'd like some clarity. The French newspaper Le Monde also says that the group had about ten hiding places in Belgium. My question to the Minister is: are there such shelters in the Netherlands, where terrorists from the Netherlands or abroad can hide? We all know that 5,000 Muslims have already travelled to Syria. We also know that a quarter of them, about 1,250, have come back and that the number of returners is growing. All alarm bells should go off, because there are therefore more than 1,000 returned Syrians in Europe, all of whom can travel freely through Europe thanks to Schengen, thanks to the open border policy of this cabinet. The fact is also that it has been denied for so long that there are terrorists between asylum seekers, through the asylum influx, that that route is used more often. Last year the Minister denied it in the Chamber, but it just happens. They're in the middle of it. We also know that terrorists from the Abdeslam network were already in the Netherlands, such as Ibrahim El Bakraoui. Last year he was put on a plane to Schiphol by Turkey at his own request. This Minister, we can remember that debate, knew nothing about it, and the man drove around here quite freely before he put 32 innocent people to death in Brussels. Then there's the ISIS terrorist Abid Tabaouni. I have a picture here. The man just put a picture on his Facebook of when he was out in Amsterdam. You can see the IJ in the background. How the hell are these people just walking around here, making a selfie and putting it on Facebook? Fortunately, this person has now been arrested and extradited in Belgium to Austria, but we have a huge problem. We also have a problem because we now all know from research that more than 20% of Flemish and Brussels Muslims have sympathy for Islamic State. That's 100,000 people. We have also known since a time that 11% of Muslims in the Netherlands consider it acceptable, according to the University of Amsterdam, to use violence. That's another 100,000 people. In the Netherlands and Belgium alone, therefore, 200,000 Muslims have sympathy for the Islamic State, or are prepared to use force to do so. And this minister isn't doing anything. He just leaves the boundaries open, he just lets people make selfies in Amsterdam. What kind of country are we living in? I see I'm out of time, so I'll finish. The problems are big, please let's not increase the risk. Stop mopping the crane open, stop the extremists, stop them travelling freely across Europe and close the Dutch borders. I have already said this as a last sentence to the Prime Minister: if there is an attack in the Netherlands, if God save that from being committed by one of the people you could have locked up or stopped with the closed borders that are not there, then you are jointly responsible as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u3	I heard Mr. Wilders quote from the NCTV report Threatening statue. The same Threat statue also states that Mr Wilders' actions make the Netherlands a potential target for terrorist attacks. How does he reflect on his own role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u4	My own role is exactly the opposite. I warn against all this political correctness of open borders and being nice to people like you and other people of a particular origin who do not respect our values and who, unlike you, do want to use violence. I warn against this and say: stop talking, do not talk properly, close the borders, pick them up because that is not part of the Netherlands. This is our country. This isn't their country, it's our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u5	This country belongs to all of us. This country belongs to those people who were born and raised here. The point is that the same NCTV report states that this type of text creates a breeding ground for radicalisation and extremism. I would like to say to Mr Wilders: take a piece of responsibility, realize what your statements do in society. His words create a division and groups of people stand opposite each other. I say this with regret in my heart, but people do not shy away from that violence, and we must do everything we can to stop it. Take a piece of responsibility and watch your own performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u6	"What people" walking around who don't take it so close to the violence? They're baking with people! As I said, 11% of the Dutch Muslims. The University of Amsterdam, not exactly the most right-wing stronghold in the Netherlands, has investigated that 11% of the 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands are willing to use violence in the name of their faith. That's 110,000 people, that's almost a Muslim army! We saw it in France. France has 4.7 million Muslims and 28% of them are Salafists. So 30% rejects the secular laws, rejects the laws we make in parliament. That's 1.5 million people in another country. We have millions of people in our countries who do not respect our rule of law, who do not respect our laws, who are Salafist or extremist and want to use violence. People in our country who want to use violence do not belong to the Netherlands. They have to leave the country, the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Of course, we must do everything we can to prevent terrorist attacks. I certainly do not recognize myself in the picture that is outlined here, namely that more than 100,000 people are standing on the doorstep to plot an attack. In the latest Threat Statue of July 2016, NCTV states that there are no concrete signs of possible attacks, while in March 2016 the Belgian authorities informed the Netherlands of a possible attack in the Netherlands. The question to the government is: how is this possible? The question that arises then is whether the Chamber is properly informed. We have to do everything we can to prevent an attack. Services need to work better together, including internationally, and preparedness is needed. At the same time, we must also be real. The risk can never be ruled out that a madman does anything. At the moment when it does, the act of an idiot should not lead to a whole group being held responsible for this, because that leads to division. And dichotomy, I'm sorry to say, can trigger terror. A second point from the NCTV security picture is that the Netherlands is a target, and that this is partly due to the way Wilders is profiling itself, both nationally and internationally. We called him a "terror magnet." I just called on him to take responsibility for that. That responsibility also brings me to the double measure. In addition to risks of a possible attack, I would also like to talk about attacks that are already taking place in the Netherlands. The D.A. has identified the attack on the mosque in Enschede as a terrorist offense. I find it disappointing that politics does not want to condemn these actions with the same harshness and does not hold debates to reduce the risk of doing so. My question to the government is as follows. Are we going to fight all forms of terrorism or are we going to fight the one form of terror more than the other? Are we going to use all the budget and capacity of the services to fight one form of terror and in the meantime let other forms of terror take place? Is the life of one person killed after an attack worth more than the life of the other? I'm closing up. The breeding ground for terrorism must be tackled. When you do not know how to prevent people from attacking mosques and spitting on Muslims and as long as people are treated as second-class citizens, that is precisely the breeding ground for terrorism in the Netherlands. This creates an insecurity, which leads to dissatisfaction, and that leads to unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating a possible attack that has not taken place. Especially when we remember the gravity of the attacks in Paris, but also those in Brussels, we can only shudder to think about the consequences if they had happened. The threat level has been substantial for three years. This means that the chance of an attack in the Netherlands is real. This kind of message we are talking about today shows once again that, although fortunately we are still being saved for all kinds of attacks, it is not self-evident either. A great deal of alertness and effort is needed to achieve this. Such an incident as we are talking about today, such a failed action, always offers the opportunity to see if everything is working properly and whether improvements are possible. That is also my question to the Minister for Security and Justice. Is this also how the various services are assessed? They say, "Hey, if we look back at what happened here, let's say that the trip and the plan had gone through, what about security at Schiphol Airport?" What possibilities do we have to get information about travel movements, etc.? Is such an evaluation carried out from time to time? In this summer's Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands, we read: "Because of the possibilities of fraud with documents, the lack of a close EU external border control and the possibility of free travel within the Schengen area, the risk is that not all travel movements are (temporarily) recognised." That is one long sentence, but there are a lot of important things in it. You have to deal with the lack of a close EU external border control, fraud with documents and free travel within the Schengen area. I have questions in all these areas. It's exactly what you see in this case: two suspects bought a ticket using false identities. What has been done to prevent and tackle identity fraud? What progress is being made in this respect? It also shows, when it comes to exchanging information, how important it is for the different services in the Netherlands and other European countries to work well together. If these travel movements are known in France, Belgium or Spain, can we trust that this information is known in no time in the Netherlands, so that we can also take action? When it comes to the possibilities of restricting travel movements from possible terrorist suspects, I still have to ask whether more instruments are possible for this. Why is it so difficult and sometimes even impossible to impose a travel ban in a country within the Schengen area to other states, including in order to protect those other states? If we know that there are people who have all kinds of dubious plans, it should be possible to impose such a travel ban within the Schengen area as well. What efforts are there to strengthen external borders and what opportunities are there for further border controls to be carried out within the Schengen area? As far as we are concerned, the standards for controls at internal borders must be as flexible as possible. If there is reason to do so, if that can help us find potential terrorists, then a Schengen bureaucracy should not stand in the way of that. Then the demands shouldn't be too high so you can't just do all that. What are the possibilities at present for intensive border controls to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. Was it wisdom or was it happiness? Did we prevent an attack or did we escape an attack? A laptop found in the garbage would show that the perpetrators of the bloody attacks last November in Paris also had the Netherlands in mind. Three attacks in Paris have unfortunately succeeded. A fourth attack, in Brussels, may have been carried out in March. Possibly Schiphol was also on the list. On the day of the attacks in Paris, two potential terrorists would have travelled by bus to Schiphol without any problems. Later that day they would have returned to Brussels without any problems. These people were later arrested as part of a large and professional terrorist network that is still active and can still commit attacks. The example of the possible or failed attack on Schiphol in November last year shows that the Netherlands is no exception, that attacks are not only carried out in Belgium and Germany, but that these same networks are also active in our country. I ask the Minister if these terrorists were in the picture at the time at the AIVD. If they were known to the AIVD, why could these potential attackers travel unimpeded to and from Schiphol? If they weren't known to the AIVD, why didn't other secret services inform us? In every debate after every bloody attack we have to conclude here in the Lower House that the perpetrators were known, but that secret services, police and justice in the various countries did not exchange enough information. That is why I would like to congratulate the government on its commitment during the Dutch Presidency of the European Union, because at that time our country took the initiative to improve the exchange of data between services. I would also like to congratulate the AIVD, which has played an important role in this and will continue to play. But the question remains: did we escape an attack, was that wisdom or was that happiness? I ask the Minister whether these networks are now in the picture with all the secret services in the Schengen area. There will also be action from now on if members of these networks suddenly move around. It costs the secret services and also the police incredibly many people and resources to monitor all those potential terrorists. When people return from war zones such as Syria or as people radicalize, we have to take them in and protect society from them. Therefore, the SP also wants potential terrorists to be required to be included in a deradicalisation programme after a judicial test. We also need to take away the soil. During the General Reviews last year, Roemer and Zijlstra received a motion to draw up and publish a list of Salafist organisations. This plan of the SP and the VVD is not implemented by PvdA Minister Asscher. I do not understand that, because those lists of Salafist organizations that preach hatred, condone violence and teach young people aversion to our society already exist. The AIVD has been researching this for many years. The question is to make it public, and I really don't understand why that can't be done. I can imagine that it is very annoying for some people, for example for drivers who have worked closely with or subsidised these organisations in the past. That is precisely the reason for making that list public and not for not doing so. We get many complaints from the police community and from the military police, including from Schiphol Airport, about the lack of people. There's still a lot of cuts on the police. There's gonna be fewer people. However, police, police and security officers at Schiphol Airport have much more work to do. You can see at Schiphol Airport not only that the number of security guards is decreasing, but also that all kinds of private services are operating there. All kinds of work has been outsourced. We also hear sounds about this from the workplace and also through the FNV. People say we don't know who's all out there, and we don't know if all these people have been screened. Who's in charge here? How do we make sure Schiphol's security is in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. On the day of the terrible attacks in Paris, 13 November 2015, two terrorists were on their way to the Netherlands, by bus on their way from Brussels to Schiphol. That is a very disturbing message, which we are debating today. Let us first express our gratitude that we have been spared a great deal of grief and misery. However, let us also look at the monster in the mouth today. So they were here, unnoticed. What happened? What else can we do to counter terrorism? As a result of the reports on this subject, the Minister said that some of them were known to me and some of them were not known to me. Can he explain exactly what he meant by that? Have these people been completely unnoticed in the Netherlands? Were they there? Of course, the Netherlands is not hermetically closed. What can we do to ensure that we reduce the risk of misery in the Netherlands? Apparently, these people were able to book a hotel with false papers and buy a bus ticket. Is there any reason to tighten up the measures? Even more important is looking at general policy. There are a few special things going on. For example, we are still waiting for the Computer Crime Act III and for the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Those are crucial laws. Surely it cannot be that this cabinet has allowed the period it has been in its seat to pass and has not passed these laws through the Chamber? We are also very concerned about the international exchange. I understand that a new letter has been received in Brussels today, which deals with the exchange, but for the time being we have received signals from Brussels that this European cooperation is not working very well and that this road map is still not working properly. Turns out it's disappointing. What is this cabinet going to do to ensure that it is carried out properly? The exchange of data remains hampered by a lack of political will, by technical differences and by differences in national procedures. That concerns us, especially the political will. What is this cabinet going to do to make a difference, even in Europe? We have heard, for example, that very little is reported in the Focal Point Travellers, Europol's database for combating exit. 90% of the messages placed therein come from five Member States. The rest doesn't seem to be in on it. That seems worrying to us. Are these messages true? Are there any other obstacles facing the security services? I call an obstacle like WhatsApp: people can just communicate with each other and nobody can reach it. The AIVD screams murder and fire and this cabinet does not seem to do anything about it, while there are sounds in Europe that need to be seen what can be done about it. Another topicality. We're on the eve of a Brexit. We all know that Europol is mainly fed from England and from the British involvement. 40% of the information is from England. Is there a serious plan for the campaign to keep the English on board? After all, we need to know exactly what comes from there. We are also concerned about the rest of the cooperation, particularly with the Belgians. We recently understood that Belgium gave us a cat because we have no sight at all of our terrorists. Now I think that it is not always easy in Belgium either, but at least it gives cause for thought that there is apparently talk of it in this way and again. Finally, we would like to know what reports have been received from the Belgian authorities about the people who have travelled to the Netherlands. We are very curious about the criminal proceedings surrounding the Schiphol Group. I understand that the Minister cannot say too much about it, but we would like to hear what he can say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. Much indicates that the Netherlands walked through the eye of the needle last year. Two boys, Sofien A. and Osama K., would have driven the Netherlands by bus on 13 November and would have even stayed here overnight. The men are connected to a network that was later responsible for attacks in Brussels and Paris. On a laptop there was also a file called "groupe Schiphol." I have seven questions about this case and a question concerning today's topical and urgent debate. 1. Are the facts I have just mentioned certain facts, or is much unclear? 2. Were the two men, Sofien A. and Osama K., in the picture when they travelled by bus to Amsterdam on 13 November 2015? 3. What did the Minister of Security and Justice know? To RTL News he said that some of the information was known to him and some of it wasn't. What information was new to him? Did the Minister's services know about this information? 4. Why isn't there a Dutch criminal investigation into Sofien A. and Osama K.? The preparation of attacks is simply a criminal offence and it is therefore logical to investigate it. 5. Is the situation at Schiphol Airport under control? Why were the intensive controls at Schiphol Airport so easy to circumvent this summer? We have known for a long time that much is expected of the Royal Marechaussee. I have strong signals that we expect too much from the Royal Marechaussee and that she is being questioned. Are those signals true? Can the Minister tell us more about that? 6. What about the protection of other important traffic nodes? I'm thinking of our ports. Customs there aren't armed. There's not a lot of cops in the water. Could the Minister perhaps inform us now, perhaps later, about the security of our strategic ports and nodes? 7. Is cooperation with other countries good? Is the weekly consultation between the security services, the head group in Europe, really on steam? Do all countries participate actively? Thanks to this leading group, the information about the Schiphol Plan has risen with the Dutch services? Are the alert lists of people who want to enter the Schengen area working well? Let me ask you a question about topicality. In the Belgian newspaper De Tijd this morning there was a message that ISIS has recruited young people in Belgium via the message app Telegram. Rachid Kassim, who was also mentor of the murderer of the French priest, would have played a role in this. Quite specifically, the threat would be directed at Christians. Do the security services have sufficient resources to monitor these kinds of young people? Will recruitment also take place in the Netherlands? Finally, I would like to make the following point. I realize very well that a lot of people work every day for all of us. If our freedom is fragile, we should be incredibly grateful to them for protecting us from the evils of jihadism and terrorism. We are grateful to them and as a group we regularly pray for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. The letter from the cabinet about a possible cell that wanted to attack Schiphol at the same time as the attacks in Paris is vague. I get that. Secret services are rightly not revealing information. Criminal investigations can be destroyed if they are made public. However, I still have a few questions about it. Why don't we do our own criminal investigation? Why do we leave that to the Belgians alone? Has this case been used to investigate whether all the systems have worked? And if everything worked, are there any gaps in the information that need to be filled? A failed attack should not lead to relief, but should be used as a serious test of anti-terrorism measures. The case of El Bakraoui, which came into Europe through Schiphol, is still fresh in memory. In the fight against terrorism, it all comes back to one crucial question: do we do everything we can? That is the question that the cabinet must constantly concern itself with. Are we doing everything we can to prevent an attack, without violating our principles and without unnecessarily restricting our freedom? I'd like to hear an answer to that question. For example, we will do everything we can to secure Schiphol. It's a big building block there, and apart from that, it's a huge job to secure Schiphol. Who has the last word when security interests compete with commercial interests? Who has the final say in such conflicts? The Labour Party wants security to always take precedence in conflict, even if that means aircraft being longer at the gate or queues getting longer. We are as vulnerable to Molenbeek terrorism as we are to terrorism from any Dutch quarter. Foreign has become inland. If you realize that, there will be consequences, not only for the cooperation of intelligence services, but also for the political summit. What happens if countries are underperforming in cooperation? Who speaks to them and with what consequences? Are there sanctions? Is there a referee? Here too, cultural change seems necessary. We have to move from a situation where we deal with each other with velvet gloves, to a situation where we tell each other where we stand and where we have to enforce what is necessary with sanctions. If there is a prison in a European country where many people appear more radicalised than they went in, what compelling measures are there to put that country on the finger? Terrorism is a major international threat. To cage that beast, you need ears and eyes in neighborhoods, neighborhoods, streets. Without benevolent neighborhood residents as allies, the services are failing. In Germany, we have seen how important information from ordinary people can be in the fight against terror. What's that like in the Netherlands? Calling people in Germany were Syrian compatriots the police in trouble? Or are they helping people to stay hidden from the government? The difference is crucial. Do we also translate police reports into Arabic in the Netherlands and distribute them digitally in the right places? Do we have some kind of neighbourhood prevention app for the right target group? Are the right government officials easily accessible to the people who are around the men and women who pose a risk to the State? There must be no neighborhoods that are collectively silent. Can we say with certainty that there is no Molenbeek in the Netherlands, where the whole neighborhood is silent? If we're not sure, what do we do to make sure? There's still a lot of important laws coming up. I hope we can treat it quickly. The most important one is the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. However, in addition to new legislation, the focus is increasingly on implementation. The Netherlands has the rules almost in order. The Netherlands has an integrated approach in which hard and soft, repressive and preventive measures go hand in hand. That is absolutely necessary. If you would only bet on tough measures, you would only have a greater chance of an attack and make the Netherlands more unsafe. My main concern is whether we have the execution in order. We must work on this with all the urgency and energy, in the Netherlands and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. We've said it a lot before. Rutte II's open border policy is a danger to the Netherlands. That's what we're seeing in the reports that Schiphol might have been targeted by a terrorist attack. According to this information, on 13 November last year two terrorists could travel unnoticed by bus to the Netherlands and then leave our country unhindered. This shows once again that both our border surveillance and our tracking device are not functioning optimally. Why weren't the terrorists arrested immediately? Weren't they spotted? How is it possible that the cabinet and our services apparently didn't know about this? In the letter of the Chamber we do not yet see the beginning of an answer to all these crucial questions. I'd still like the answers. It wasn't the first time terrorists have been able to move freely through our country. Indeed, one of the perpetrators of the attacks in Brussels, Ibrahim El Bakraoui, has already done so. It's code red, but the cabinet keeps playing Russian roulette with our security. It ensures that terrorists can enter through the asylum influx and return jihadists only get an anklet. This cabinet is led by absurd naivety. But it's gonna be too late. Therefore, act both preventively and repressively. For the umpteenth time, we are saying that the borders for asylum seekers should be included, that intensive border controls should be introduced, that we invest more in our security services, that we enter administrative detention, that we exclude mosques that call for violence and that we reject radical imams. In short, cabinet, protect the Netherlands from Islamic terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. Everyone knows: there is also a threat of terror in the Netherlands. That also Schiphol's possible target of an attack, proves that. But I'm not surprised. Of course, Paris and Brussels have already shown that terrorism is getting closer. And anyone who wants to do evil in a free world will be able to do harm. D66 chooses an open society with conviction. We defend the freedoms and unlimited opportunities offered by an open society. Because that's exactly what terrorists attack. So D66 doesn't go along with the rhetoric of the PVV, which constantly frightens people. Wilders gives terrorists their purpose, namely to sow fear and control our lives and the political debate. The idea that we are talking about an attack that did not take place today, of course, gives us a very double feeling. I agree with everyone. That is why I ask the Minister what is the position on a number of crucial aspects of the fight against terrorism, because there are weaknesses in the system, as has been demonstrated in recent months. For example, the Brussels bomb squad, El Bakraoui, could travel unseen via Schiphol Airport and a Dutch jihadist boarded the plane twice to Turkey. Last August it also appeared that the capacity of the Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport was insufficient, while D66 but also other parties in this Chamber have been asking for the guarantee of the Cabinet to put the capacity in order since January, up to three times. In addition, we hear time and again after an attack that the perpetrators were already in the picture, that the perpetrators were known to the police or that the services already had the perpetrators in their sights. The necessary information is therefore already available. Nevertheless, this minister is taking advantage of resources that limit our shared freedom. He wants to collect more and more data, ban prepaid SIM cards and even weaken encryption. But what is not happening is doing what is really necessary, which is targeted against terrorism, namely inciting the EU Member States to make mandatory exchange of information on terrorist suspects, whereas this would be a crucial step. I therefore go a lot further than my colleague, Mr Van Toorenburg, who said that we should ask how things stand. Why is the Netherlands not simply committed to compulsory exchange between the information services of the Member States? I have a number of supplementary questions. Why were the potential perpetrators of an attack at Schiphol Airport already in the picture of the Dutch or European services? Does the Minister investigate their background and travel movements? Why don't we do our own criminal investigation? Mr Recourt of the Labour Party asked the same question. Is the post that saw the message about the traveller in Düsseldorf too late taken 24 hours a day? Has the road-saving liaison officer returned to the Brussels embassy? Are there any improvements in communication with the Belgians about terror? What is the Cabinet doing to strengthen the Marechaussee at Schiphol? How can the low investment of only 4 million in 2017 be sufficient for this? Is the Minister still going to convince the European Member States of the importance of compulsory exchange of information by the services? I just asked you that, but I'm only gonna do it again. This dossier is getting worse and it is the crucial link in dealing with this problem. On terrorism, politics must not frighten people, but it must do whatever is necessary to prevent attacks. For D66, this means that the security services, which are already working very hard to guarantee our freedom and security, must be sufficiently equipped and be able to do their job optimally. Have the Minister put this in order. Let this debate be used to put things in order that are not in order and let the Netherlands do everything it can to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u15	I've listened carefully to what D66 says. However, my concern is always in the exchange of data. D66 is also a party that still prevents a proper exchange of data. Let me give you an example: WhatsApp. Murder and fire are being shouted when we are talking to the cabinet about whether there should be a possibility that the security services could access something under judicial review. D66 is always at the front to say: no way. We now hear, Mr Segers, that there is an exchange of information that the AIVD cannot access, so that the AIVD cannot exchange with other services. Does D66 keep saying "wishful"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u16	At the heart of my speech is that the information needed to intercept potential attackers and other terrorists appears to be already present in most cases, but that something has gone wrong between the various services and organisations in handling the existing information. Then you'll have to make sure that's settled there. You don't have to build backdoors into the Internet so that everyone, the AIVD, but also criminals, can access our communications. That's what the CDA and the PVV want to do. It doesn't make anyone any better. Indeed, collecting more data improperly does not want D66. That says Mrs Van Toorenburg well. D66 wants to promote that the information that is available is handled well, alertly and clearly, so that you can pick up potential attackers even better and much faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u17	Everyone here in the Chamber and everyone in Europe wants better cooperation between the services. D66 does not need to evoke a picture as if there are parties who are for or against it. That's what everybody's for. The question I am asking today is whether D66 would also like to take a more positive look at our services that say they can organize anything, but not when they will not be able to be active on the Internet at all. D66 is also against the law on computer crime III. Then the party bounces. I understand it all, but don't talk to the cabinet about the exchange of data here, because if D66 is up to it, not only justice is blind, but also the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mrs Van Toorenburg pretends that cooperation between intelligence services is not a problem and all Member States are okay with it. The opposite is true. A motion has been tabled by my colleague, Mr Pechtold, along with Mr Samsom of the PvdA. That motion was passed in the Lower House. It called for mandatory data exchange by Member States' services. But the cabinet doesn't carry out that motion. So I think it is right that I should then crack a critical note towards the cabinet to ensure that this motion is carried out and that we finally take the step that is needed in Europe, namely compulsory exchange between services and not a little cooperation, but then never come to anything. D66 does not believe in collecting data from innocent citizens by building backdoors and weaknesses in the Internet, as if that were the solution. That's not the solution, that's a fake solution. D66 wants real solutions and not fake solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u19	We really do interrupt in two, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Unless a question hasn't been answered. But if you ask such a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u20	I thought it was an answer, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u21	No, I'm looking at Mrs. Van Toorenburg. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u22	Very briefly. At the heart of my speech was better cooperation. Only the core of the D66 argument is: no information to the AIVD. That's worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u23	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u24	I will therefore respond very briefly. Mrs Van Toorenburg now pretends that the AIVD does not already have all kinds of possibilities, including to crack data traffic from suspicious people. That is absolutely wrong, because the AIVD has been able to do so for a long time. The only thing D66 doesn't want is that we're going to find out all the information traffic on the Internet based on weaknesses. This creates an unsafe internet, which is good for no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Chairman. The advantage of what is on the back of the list of speakers is that my colleagues have already asked a lot of sensible questions, mostly by PvdA and D66 and I can join them. I look forward to the Minister's answers to this. Freedom is a great asset that must be defended. Everyone in this room will say that. With the SGP, I say that the threat level in the Netherlands is indeed substantial; that is what we have been told for three years. But what makes these debates so difficult is the confidence we have to put in the effectiveness of the investigation, intelligence and security services. Did Schiphol escape an attack or was the false alarm? Did our AIVDs know about the existence, plans and origin of these suspected terrorists? Are the security services working together internationally to prevent tragedies such as those of 13 November? It's asking about the familiar road. The Minister may answer those questions incompletely or not at all due to operational actions and ongoing criminal investigations. My group understands that. At the same time, ministers have a heavy responsibility to convince the Chamber and the Dutch people that they are "on the ball." In all honesty: the track record of both ministers rattles at that point. GroenLinks therefore supported a motion of censure against Minister Van der Steur in the previous terrorism debate. The questions are obvious. What has changed in the fight against terrorism since the previous debate with Minister Van der Steur? Agreements would be made with the Turkish authorities to avoid repetition. Has that worked out? What initiatives have been taken to combat the unnoticed entry and exit of suspected terrorists? Are the intelligence and security services working together adequately? D66 raised the question of whether mandatory cooperation should not be introduced at EU level. The Minister states in his letter, for which he thanked, that the implementation of the action programme is on track. In fact, new legislative proposals are waiting for the House's proceedings. I won't tell the minister anything new when I report that GroenLinks is detecting major privacy issues with a whole set of new registrations. D66 mentioned it as well: registration, storage of data communications, extensive police hacking powers to browse private computers, prepaid SIM cards and the installation of backdoors in WhatsApp, but also in the other apps. According to GroenLinks, this means that you are still looking for those same dozens of very dangerous pins, but that the haystack is getting bigger and bigger, so the effectiveness is certainly not increasing. Better bet on the professional qualities of district agents, security staff, staff and special units, but that's where it wrings. A Belgian terrorist expert claimed last week in the AD that the Netherlands has a very bad view of returned Syrians. Is that so, I ask the rulers. It is important to strengthen the resilience of Dutch society. GroenLinks likes to hear what initiatives have been taken. I would like to recall the Van Ojik/Samsom motion, which calls for schools to be supported in preventing and combating polarisation and incomprehension. We read in the newspaper that the municipality of Utrecht has taken an initiative on this point. We hope that this will now apply to all schools in the Netherlands and that the government will support it. I'd like to get a response to this motion from a year and a half ago. Is the government, together with the municipalities, working diligently and is the deradicalisation sufficiently facilitated? I agree with the words of the one who said that it was the spokesperson of the Christian Union who said: we are also grateful to all of us who are working very hard every day to keep us safe, but also to those who work very hard to preserve our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the French newspaper Le Monde reported that on the day of the attacks in Paris, last November, two terrorists travelled from Brussels to Schiphol to commit an attack. According to the French justice system, they got on a bus to the Netherlands on 13 November 2015 in Brussels with false papers, but they returned to the Netherlands the same day. On 13 November, CNN also reported that IS had plans to attack in many more places and that Schiphol was also a target. That's frightening. The horrible images from Paris and Brussels are still before us and have made a deep impression. These barbaric attacks are an unrelenting attack on our freedom and thus on all of us. They are attacks on our way of life, on our achievements, on our freedoms. No one can guarantee that there will never be a terrorist attack here in the Netherlands, in our country. Unfortunately, we have to be so realistic. But it doesn't help anyone if we're going to live for that fear, if people don't dare to go to a concert or a day by train to Amsterdam. Of course we must be vigilant, but the VVD does not want us to give up our freedoms in the illusion that we can prevent that attack. As much as we'd like to. Our services make every effort every day to prevent an attack in our country. The VVD therefore wants to ensure that last week's coverage leads to the image that the Netherlands does not have its business in order. On the contrary, the Netherlands is on steam when it comes to anti-terrorism legislation. Just the facts about today's case. We do not know whether these two terrorists have actually boarded the Euroliner. All we know is that they bought fake paper tickets. We don't know if they were planning an attack at Schiphol. We don't know if they were in the picture at the AIVD, because that information is not public. What the VVD does know is that our services, on the basis of information known to them, constantly consider whether additional measures are necessary. We rely on the professionalism of our services. I do have a number of questions about that. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicate whether EU-wide the Counter Terrorism Group functions in such a way that these types of figures are actually in view? The greatest risk remains the way all EU countries deal with extravagants and returners. What progress has been made here at EU level? What about that road map that's been given high priority? And then Schiphol. Like all major airports in Europe, our national airport is also a real target. It was, and it's gonna stay that way. What about Schiphol security? This summer we have already seen an example of increased controls. Perhaps the Minister could explain this further. We will maintain the current security situation and the associated threat level in the near future. The Special Interventions Service is indispensable at this time. That is why the VVD welcomes the fact that extra money is now being invested in the V and J budget. Finally. I realize that I am repeating myself, but I ask the Minister of State once again when we can expect the bill to modernise the Intelligence and Security Services Act in the Lower House. I ask the same question to the Minister of V and J on the Computer Crime Act III. My group would prefer to deal with these laws this year, because our services desperately need these powers in their search for terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u27	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There's a need for suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their questions and comments. First of all, allow me to express my thanks to all Members who have expressed their appreciation and confidence for those who, under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior and myself, are working day in to ensure the security of our society. They do so again and again under sometimes difficult conditions, with full commitment and seven days a week, 24 hours a day. That is also necessary, because, as many Members have pointed out, the threat level in the Netherlands is substantial. We must bear in mind that a terrorist attack could also be carried out in the Netherlands. I understand, therefore, that there are concerns and many questions about the media coverage of the cases about which the Minister for the Interior and I informed the Chamber yesterday by letter, as far as we can. I must point out that these are ongoing criminal investigations in Belgium and the Netherlands. From my responsibilities, I cannot go into the facts that will be part of the trial that will undoubtedly take place in Belgium and possibly in the Netherlands. I realize that at that point I may not be able to answer the questions that exist at the Chamber. I also know that this is annoying, but it is no different, for the simple reason that the Chamber can't blame me and cannot accept that we do not want to cross or even damage the ongoing investigations in any way. In addition, answering many detailed questions concerning the facts can also lead to access to the behaviour and information position of the services concerned. This could ultimately be a threat to potential terrorists or even terrorists. I would also like to answer the questions, but within the limits that have just been outlined. In the letter Mr Plasterk and I indicated that the cases outlined in the media are known to us. The relevant Dutch organisations from the security domain are therefore aware of this. I will go into the questions you have asked in a moment. A number of Members have raised the question of whether the departments under the responsibility of the two ministers who stand here are doing everything possible to ensure the safety of the Netherlands. The answer to that is, of course, yes. Mrs Tellegen has already pointed it out: does this also mean that we can guarantee that the Netherlands will be free from a terrorist attack? Of course, the answer to that cannot be given. Regardless of our investments in manpower, measures and other means, we cannot guarantee that the Netherlands will never be confronted with something as horrible as a terrorist attack. But I agree with Mrs Tellegen that this science must not lead to fear and cramping, not in the government but also in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u29	This was an introduction and then a beginning of a general story, but in fact I would like to ask the Minister to give a specific answer to the question. Were these two figures, these two terrorist suspects in the Netherlands, yes or no? I think the Minister can answer that without running a criminal investigation. And was there any mention of booking a hotel? That was about the first question. I like to talk about generalities, but this was the reason for the debate and I would like to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u30	I understand that, but whether these two people were present in the Netherlands and whether they booked a hotel is part of the criminal investigation. So I cannot go beyond what I wrote in the letter received by the Chamber yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u31	The Minister writes in the letter that those two persons may have bought a ticket for the Eurolines bus and possibly went to the Netherlands. I keep using the word "possible." In the following sentence, he reports that this was not a reason to conduct a criminal investigation. There's something else in there. He leaves in the middle whether they were in the Netherlands or not and whether he knew that. Did they cross the border or is it a sandwich monkey story? He now says that there may be a criminal investigation in the Netherlands, he did not put it that strongly in the letter. Can I assume those people were in the Netherlands? What's to stop the Minister from giving the people that clarity? I hope they weren't there, then it's out of the world right away, otherwise it just keeps playing. Were they in the Netherlands? Why doesn't the letter say anything about the hotel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u32	That is precisely the crux of Mr Wilders' question. I understand very well that he is asking that question, but I cannot answer that question. The criminal investigation in Belgium focuses on whether these persons were present in the Netherlands. That is a question that is raised in the criminal investigation and can be part of the measure of punishment and what comes into play. In reply to Mr Wilders' question, I can only say exactly what Mr Wilders is referring to. It may be, but that's the subject of criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u33	Then we might as well stop the debate now, because then it's a total bullshit debate. The key question is if they were here. I can also say in general that if you had closed the borders, what you should have done, you would certainly have known that they had not been here, because you would have been able to stop them. If you hadn't, you could've traced the fake papers. These are all general discussions. Why should the Netherlands not know if they have been in the Netherlands? You will say in your letter: we have placed Belgium's information alongside the police data and we have even given it to the AIVD. You give us pieces of information like cookies to a child: you can have it but you can't eat it. That's not a debate, is it? Then you should have said nothing at all and you should have said: 'Room, not a debate' because I cannot say anything at all. Now you say a lot, except about the big question: were they here, did they book a hotel, was there a threat in the Netherlands, was Schiphol the cause? That is independent of whether or not these people are convicted. Is it or isn't it? Otherwise, we'd better go home, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u34	With all due respect, but if the Chamber thinks there should be a debate, it is up to us to ensure that you receive all the information we can give within the limits we have. We explicitly stated that in the letter. If the Chamber decides to hold a debate on an ongoing criminal investigation both in Belgium and in the Netherlands, then restrictions arise. One of the essential questions is what were the intentions of the people who are subject to this criminal investigation, but that is part of the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u35	Were they here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u36	That too is part of the criminal investigation. I indicated in the letter what we can indicate, that we are familiar with the possibility that there has been a bus trip. We also confirm that information entitled "groupe Schiphol" has been found on a laptop that is the subject of a criminal investigation. We cannot provide more than that on this point. I would like to answer all further questions, but with this limitation that I cannot answer questions that are part of a criminal investigation that is ongoing in Belgium and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u37	There's a criminal investigation going on in Belgium. The Minister is now saying that there is apparently a criminal investigation in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u38	There's been a misunderstanding. The letter states that there is an ongoing criminal investigation into the laptop and the information that might be on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u39	Good, so that's an investigation in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u40	No, in the Netherlands, there's a criminal investigation into the laptop. There is an ongoing criminal investigation in Belgium into the suspects who may have taken a bus trip.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u41	I'd like to ask a question now anyway. I understand the Minister can't tell you everything because there's a criminal investigation going on. But a criminal investigation doesn't mean the minister can't tell us anything. Just the presence of these two persons on Dutch soil, apart from the intention; I do not see why that information would obstruct, limit, prevent a criminal investigation. I don't see that. That's just information the minister can give us right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u42	That is information that the judge is involved in the question of what criminal offences these persons may have committed. So that is also a question that needs to be answered in the criminal investigation, that is something that needs to be proven in the criminal investigation. A Minister for Security and Justice in the Netherlands, who is not part of that investigation in Belgium, cannot make any guiding statements about this. This is really the subject of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u43	But that would mean that merely the presence of these two persons on Dutch soil could be criminally convicted. That would mean that that could be a reason for an investigation. I cannot imagine that if that is not the case, if the presence of these two persons on Dutch soil is not prohibited, if that is not a subject of criminal investigation, if that information was indeed there or were they not there? It would make such a criminal investigation impossible or seriously difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u44	The facts and intentions of the persons concerned are the subject of that criminal investigation. Then it will be of little use and it may even be very damaging if I then speculate here in the Netherlands on this or let my thoughts go. That is really not wise, and we should not want it to be. Nor is that in the interests of the ultimate goal that I believe we have with each other. If there are people in Europe with false intentions, they must be condemned for these false intentions and any behavior. That's part of the criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u45	I'm completely lost right now. There's a letter from the cabinet of two sides. On p. 2 is under the heading "Possible bus journey" that no leads have yet been found for independent criminal investigation, parallel to the ongoing criminal investigation in Belgium. That's what the letter says. I'll try to be brief, but I'd like to clear it up. I conclude from this that there is no criminal investigation in the Netherlands yet. The Minister has now given rise to all sorts of suggestions that a criminal investigation is taking place. Can he clarify that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u46	I'd love to. That same confusion just came on the table. In the letter it is very clear under the heading "Laptop." I refer to the last sentence at the top of page 2. I quote: "This criminal investigation is ongoing." This concerns a Dutch criminal investigation into the information made available to the Dutch police by the Belgian authorities from the laptop. Next, under the heading "Possible bus journey" there is a criminal investigation in Belgium. The last sentence reads: "Of course, the Dutch police and the prosecution actively inform about developments in the ongoing investigations and possible leads for investigation in the Netherlands." It states that these points of departure have not been found and that there has been no reason to start a criminal investigation in the Netherlands on this point, in addition to the ongoing Belgian investigation in which full cooperation is, of course, provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you, at least that is clear. I find it rather strange that this is being pulled apart, when it is precisely a chain of events that are linked together. Apart from that, my question, and also that of Mr Recourt and others, has been: why not also a criminal investigation in addition to what is now being done in Belgium? Well, that's important then. The Minister can say something about that. The Minister can say something about the reason not to conduct a criminal investigation into the possibility of a bus trip and the possible presence of these potential attackers in the Netherlands. He says: I'm not doing it, there are no leads, and the Belgians are doing it. Then the Minister can tell us why that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u48	These persons are subject to criminal investigation in Belgium. The Netherlands cooperates on this in the framework of cooperation as we do with the Belgians. There was no reason or point of reference to start a separate criminal investigation into the possible bus journey of these suspects who are in custody in Belgium and are subject to criminal investigation. This is without prejudice to the fact that whenever information becomes available and facts are found, the services concerned will, of course, make every effort to do what is necessary also in the field of information provision to examine the links between jihadist networks in the Netherlands and to assess the need for action on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u49	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u50	Yeah, I'm rounding up. I admit that I cannot fully assess the justification for initiating all kinds of criminal investigations alongside each other on the basis of certain events. I'd like to admit that. Anyway, I'm in the House of Representatives, and I want to understand why we do or don't do certain things. My feeling with this choice is that it is a bit passive. Can the Minister state more clearly why it is justified in this case to say that there is no passive attitude for which everyone is naturally afraid in this case, but that there is simply sufficient reason to wait now? We are here to discuss a little bit about an investigation that is not taking place and an attack that has not taken place, but everyone does feel that it is not going well on a number of points. That has also been shown in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u51	It is extremely difficult to remove the concerns of the Court on this point, because it is always about ongoing criminal investigations. I have just said that the prosecution and the national police are in active contact with the Belgian authorities. If there are grounds for an independent criminal investigation, we will. I can turn it around, too. If Mr Verhoeven asks me if the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office would appreciate an ongoing criminal investigation being linked to an ongoing criminal investigation abroad, I must say that this is often not the case unless requested. On the contrary: in general, it is the right agreement between public prosecutors in Europe that if one starts an investigation, the other does not, for the simple reason that this can have all kinds of undesirable consequences. There's got to be a good discussion with each other about what the other can do and how the other can help you. There are all kinds of means for this, such as requests for legal aid and cooperation. There are also police liaisons of ours active in Belgium. We are therefore kept closely informed and, of course, as soon as there is a case for criminal investigations in the Netherlands, this will happen. But those leads haven't been found at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u52	On the one hand, I fully understand the reluctance of the cabinet to provide information on specific cases, especially when it comes to criminal investigations. On the other hand, however, we notice that it is often useful in debates to see and hear what is going on in concrete cases, because then we can see whether the system actually works or whether there are shortcomings in practice. In that respect, I would like to add my voice to colleagues Wilders and Van Raad. It is unclear why the cabinet does write in the letter that a laptop has been found that says "groupe Schiphol," which seems to me to be quite detailed and sensitive information, while the actual question whether these people have been in the Netherlands is not answered with reference to the criminal investigation. Can the Minister, apart from the research, from Dutch science, say whether these people have been here? If not, can he explain why that question cannot be answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u53	That is a very complicated question because I have to be very careful about this. The information found on the laptop, which we can confirm, is part of the criminal investigation, also in the Netherlands, but that concerns factual information available on a laptop. That is other than confirming or denying information about persons who are still subject to criminal investigations, who have their lawyers, who have their defences and whose actions they have and who have not done. This is a different form of criminal information than the information found on a laptop or not. Again, the police and the Public Prosecutor have their powers on the basis of the law as the members all know. In addition, there is intensive cooperation with the intelligence and security services, which, of course, can never be communicated. All in all, this is the package to protect Dutch society from everything we are deeply concerned about in the field of terrorism in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u54	I understand that their intentions and what they have done here are criminally sensitive information, but why can't the Minister say more about the factual information, for example whether or not these people have been in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u55	Because these people are subject to criminal investigation. They're stuck in prison in Belgium. The subject of the investigation is the question of what these people have done. What did they do in the months before they were arrested in March or April? This is an essential subject of criminal investigation. This includes the question whether they have been in the Netherlands, what their intention was and what they have done. That is the subject of the criminal investigation and should also lead to a conviction of those people. It is therefore not appropriate to philosophize here in the Chamber with Members about what is known about this on the basis of the Belgian investigation or what we know about it on the basis of our own information. That's just not wise. The Chamber shouldn't ask me to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u56	I understand from the Minister's letter and answers that there is criminal investigation into the laptop containing information in the Netherlands as well as Belgium and that there is only investigation into the bus journey in Belgium. I have a theoretical question outside this framework. Is it possible to commit a criminal offence from Belgium or another country in the Netherlands and also to be convicted in the Netherlands? Or should you actually have been on that bus in the Netherlands to have been able to commit a criminal offence?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u57	Under our laws and regulations and also the link between the Code of Criminal Procedure and the New York Convention, it is possible to prosecute non-Dutch for a terrorist offence, even if that terrorist fact has taken place abroad. But then you must have them in the Netherlands. That is not the case now. Those involved are in prison in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u58	If the criminal investigation in Belgium is limited to what happened in Belgium and a number of elements are not taken into account that might have taken place in the Netherlands, will the Netherlands not take charge of the prosecution twice for those elements for which no prosecution has taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u59	I will answer this question in the second term, because that requires careful legal thinking. I would like to answer Mr Recourt's question carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u60	It's a little unusual, but can I ask the Minister not so much a question, but something? I understand he may not be able to answer. If Dutch interests were seriously harmed by a possible attack on Schiphol, can Parliament be confident that the interests of the Netherlands should be protected and that the criminality of the behaviour in the Netherlands should be taken into account, so that a person who wanted to commit a serious crime in the Netherlands will also be put in front of the bank here? Let us make sure that the Dutch government always acts on it, if someone has wanted to do so. Can I give that to the Secretary of State? I think that's what people want to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u61	I can answer that with a full yes. That goes without saying. This means that everything that has happened in this case is completely and completely the subject of investigation, regardless of the criminal investigation. All other services involved, of course, are also looking at how to minimise risks to Dutch society. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u62	I am still trying to get into what the Minister has said about the consequences of a criminal investigation and its consequences for this debate. At the same time, we are trying to abstract and look at the security of our country. What do we learn from this? Both ministers share a number of details on this case. It is therefore very logical that follow-up questions should be asked. I think the Minister is hiding behind this criminal investigation very quickly and very massively. I ask the Minister to state very clearly at a time which questions can or cannot be answered. We must be able to abstract to the security situation in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u63	I'd be happy to. As far as possible within the limits, I will give those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u64	Sorry, Chairman. I've been there once. I'm sorry about that, but I'd like to try again. The Belgians must do what the Belgians think they should do. This is mainly about what happened in Belgium. I get that. Justice must take its course there. As regards the Dutch case, you must act as a minister and the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office must do something. Have these people been here, what have they done, what were their intentions, what was in that file or not about the group Schiphol? That's a Dutch case. It's affecting our safety. We should not leave that to the Belgians. You say there's a criminal investigation into that laptop. I understand I can't ask about that; I won't. It's about the safety of our country, of our people. That's what our state's attorney's office is for, and that's what you're the minister for. Those aren't the Belgians. I wouldn't want to depend on a Belgian criminal investigation if those people were here, booked a hotel and maybe had Schiphol in sight. I ask you again, with respect for the Dutch criminal investigation into the laptop and for what the Belgians are doing. Give information: were they here or not? I'm not asking about intentions, and I'm not asking about the laptop. Were they here or not? You're the Dutch minister. It must not be the case that I have to ask Brussels immediately to ask a Belgian minister this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u65	I can answer Mr Wilders' question in this way: at the moment when there are points of reference there will be actively informed, as I indicated in the letter, and we are actively involved in this and there is reason to launch a criminal investigation in the Netherlands into this case, into that possible bus journey, of course. It may also be the case that, after the criminal investigation and a possible conviction in Belgium, the person concerned is requested to be extradited. Those are all roads that will be walked when that has to be done. So I can reassure Mr Wilders. I give the same answer to his question about the content as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u66	I have one last question. You do not want to tell us whether they were in the Netherlands or not, Minister. May I ask if you know if they were in the Netherlands? Regardless of whether they were there or not, do you know if they were in the Netherlands or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u67	I understand that Mr Wilders is putting the question another way, but he understands as well as I do and many others understand that I cannot answer that question if I cannot answer the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u68	No. I'm not asking if they were here, but if you knew. If you do not want to answer that question, that is really political unwillingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u69	I agree. We cannot talk at length about a specific case that is being investigated by criminal law. However, every time an attack is made, it appears that the attackers were known and were part of a network. What we in the House of Representatives are trying to do now is to see if this government, together with other governments, our secret service, together with other secret services, have a map of networks and those people are behind the pants. Now we have a case. We don't ask what exactly was on which laptop or what the intentions of this one or that one were. All we want to know is if they were in the Netherlands and if they were in the picture. I believe that the House of Representatives is entitled to do so because otherwise we will not be able to do our controlling work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u70	That is the question that has already been asked several times about the essence of the criminal investigation in Belgium, to which the Netherlands fully cooperates. We follow closely and see if any leads are coming out that are important and may lead to Dutch criminal investigation. That is what the Chamber of us and the services under my responsibility, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the national police, can expect, and this is exactly what will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u71	Both ministers have been MPs. They must be able to live in the Lower House, how we can do our job? We constantly ask for cooperation between secret services, networks that have or have not been mapped and travel movements of potential terrorists that are or are not being followed. How can we do our job if the Minister does not want to answer the most basic questions, such as whether or not these people were in the Netherlands? No criminal investigation can be frustrated with this and with this the minister can ensure that the Lower House can do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u72	I have to repeat myself, because Mr Van Raak is asking the same question. I also understand why you are asking that question, Mr Van Raak. I myself, from your position as a Member of Parliament, have had the manual to never ask for ongoing criminal investigations, knowing that you are at risk of putting the ruler in a position to harm criminal investigation by sharing information that is the subject of that investigation. That is what this is all about. So the answer is that I cannot answer that question without damage, without risk of damage, because it is the subject of an ongoing criminal investigation. I can turn it around: we would not want questions about the ongoing criminal investigation in the Netherlands to be answered by fellow ministers in other countries about what they know or do not know and what they think. At the same time, I cannot help but say that although I cannot provide that information, I can confirm that in all possible ways all the services we have in the Netherlands are working with the foreign authorities to ensure that the risks to the Netherlands are as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u73	Finalizing, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u74	So we can't control all that. So we will now have to go to Brussels. So that's where we're gonna have to do our controlling work. I think that's a mockery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u75	We have now had a whole series of MPs on the microphone with the same question: what can the Minister give us so that we can have the confidence that everything is on everything? As I said in my contribution, the Minister's track record is not optimal. To all the questions he answers: I cannot say that, because... To some extent I can understand that, but what can the Minister say, which makes the Chamber feel that it can carry out its controlling task seriously? Could the Minister tell us in a different way, perhaps in more general terms, what has changed in this policy, so that we now know for sure that these people will be in the picture when they are staying in the Netherlands, that there will be good cooperation and so on? Can the Minister say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u76	That's what I'm gonna do. I am going to answer all the questions, including those of Mrs Van Tongeren. I'll be sure to. A great deal has happened in recent months. A lot has changed and improved. I can see that in this case, too. When the information becomes available from Belgium, it is shared immediately with the Dutch authorities and action is taken immediately. This also applies to many other areas. In the past, Mr Segers has asked for the registration of extravagants. We see that registration has now reached thousands of people in Europe. That is a worrying fact, but it is a good thing that registration is there, because at least we have that information on our hands. And there's a lot more coming. I will immediately address individual questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u77	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister admits that it has not been well organised until recently and that it has now improved. So we are going to hear from the Minister what has been improved so that we can have confidence in the Minister's policy. I await the rest of the response with tension and interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u78	I think we will have to move on to the general part, which will deal with all the general questions. These will be the questions about the current policies of recent times. Some of them have been put forward. I would like to ask one more question about the following. There's a Belgian investigation going on. It is not common or useful to do a Dutch investigation, but it is possible, Minister has just said. There may be reasons to do so, but the Minister cannot say anything about it. I therefore conclude that it is impossible for the Lower House to know and check whether the decision not to conduct a Dutch investigation is justified or not. The Chamber can never know that. We can jump high or low, ask questions and do all kinds of other things, but the Minister only says that there is a Belgian investigation going on, that it is possible to do a Dutch investigation, but that there are no clues to that now. If we then ask questions about the presence of potential attackers and their movements, the Minister answers that he cannot say anything about them. The conclusion is that the House of Representatives cannot do anything to find out or check that the choice not to do an investigation was justified. That's what's bothering us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u79	Of course. But how does that usually work? The Belgian investigation is ongoing. The criminal case will begin. The criminal case is coming to an end. There comes information that is weighed and assessed by the judge. Eventually, this will lead to a conviction or not, there are, of course, many more suspects in this case than just these two people, and we can see whether there is any reason for an independent investigation. If there is a reason for an independent investigation earlier, it will be carried out, as I have already said. There's no discussion about that. Nor is it the case that we would not want such an investigation. We do this in good coordination with the Belgians. If there is cause, if Belgium cannot include anything in the research or if there is reason to conduct an independent investigation, then that will of course happen; there is no discussion at all. After the Belgian investigation and the criminal case, we can, of course, carry out an evaluation of this and we will do so. I would be happy to look back with the Chamber at the questions that could not be answered during the current investigation. We can then see if we have missed a turn somewhere in some way. I am sure that we will have that debate. But once again, it is a fact that the Chamber is asking questions about an ongoing investigation, even though that investigation is taking place in Belgium. If we turn it around and there would be a Dutch investigation, and in part this is a Dutch investigation, I do not think it would be desirable, while the investigation is still under way, to go and philosophize about it in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u80	If the Minister communicates tomorrow that an independent investigation has been initiated, the Chamber will not be told why this is happening. And if the Minister informs the Chamber tomorrow that there is still no independent investigation going on, he will not tell us why that does not happen. So we might as well stop talking about that now. We must obviously rely on the Minister to inform us afterwards that it was justified or not to start an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u81	The question is, what is the goal? The aim, in my view, is to minimise the risk of terrorist acts committed by these prisoners. That is, of course, the starting point, including for the Dutch authorities. If it is necessary to conduct a criminal investigation in the Netherlands and there are grounds for doing so, we will do so immediately. There is no obstacle or limitation at all, except that we do not want to jeopardise the investigation in Belgium in any way. We fully support that research and support it wherever it is necessary. We don't want to compromise that. That goes without saying. While a criminal investigation is still ongoing, we never discuss with the Chamber the choices made in such an investigation. You always do that afterwards. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u82	Nevertheless, for my understanding, I ask whether we can hear from the Minister whether these boys were in the picture. Can we hear they've been followed? Can we hear that the services did indeed do good work and that they had these guys in their sights? Can we ask questions about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u83	The letter states exactly what has happened with regard to the services under my responsibility. When the information became available from Belgium, everything that needs to be done when you get that kind of information was done immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u84	This makes asking questions very difficult. The minister says there's a criminal investigation going on. That's what he can hide behind. Let me draw a parallel with the case of the MH17. That was a major disaster that is also the subject of a major criminal investigation. The Chamber has been constantly updated on this issue and we have had constant debates on it. Information about this has been shared all the time, including with the Chamber. So that didn't stand out at all and that didn't get in the way of each other. Research and information were parallel. Political accountability took place there while criminal proceedings were under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u85	In that context, information on the ongoing criminal investigation has never been shared. There's only one party that's made announcements about that, and that's the Joint Investigation Team. Notifications were made because the team considered that the provision of that information was appropriate for the investigation. The government has, of course, never provided any information on this. You can't. You can't walk through a criminal investigation like that by making communications. That is also one of the discussions we have had with the Chamber on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u86	But we were able to talk about security and the exchange of information. Also very specific in that case and about that case we were able to discuss. That indeed happened abstracted and in a general sense. But on the basis of that case and what took place in Ukraine, we were able to discuss it. In doing so, we were not hindered by the fact that there was a criminal investigation going on. That should be the case now. The debate would really gain in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u87	The current criminal investigation has not been notified in that case either. We have always talked about how the Dutch government supports the criminal investigation. In that context, we have had discussions about everything. That goes for the same thing here. But, of course, questions have never been raised here in the Chamber if: who did what, who was where, who fired what? It is also understandable that these questions have never been raised in the Chamber, because that is what the criminal investigation is about. There is only one party that can communicate this, namely the Public Prosecutor's Office, either in Belgium or in the Netherlands. There is only one party that can judge it, namely the judge. However, we must ensure that the judge is able to do so in complete independence. I really do not want to put any investigation at risk in any way by communicating in the Chamber any questions that have been raised there. Moreover, I think it is quite understandable that the Chamber has these questions, from the point of view of the Chamber. The Court cannot, however, expect me to run the risk of going through investigations by making those communications. I just shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u88	Yesterday, during Question Time, we discussed the case of Mitch Henriquez and the agents involved. Then it was also about a criminal investigation. The minister didn't make a statement about it. Today we see the same thing happening, so we have to do it with the facts we have. The fact is, there's a criminal investigation going on. The fact is that a laptop has been seized with a file called "groupe Schiphol." The fact is, the police have started an investigation. Fact is the criminal investigation in Belgium. The fact is that Belgium informed the Netherlands in March. And possibly a bus trip has been made. Then we see that in the Threat Picture Terrorism The Netherlands is ready-to-use: there is no concrete evidence that terrorists are actually preparing for an attack in the Netherlands. How specific do you want it to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u89	What does Mr Kuzu mean? I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u90	Mr Kuzu, you may clarify your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u91	Do I have to do it all over again? I think the Minister understands him very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u92	I really don't understand him. If I understand the question, I'm happy to answer it. I do not understand how the facts, which I agree with, lead to the question put by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u93	I have here the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands of July 11, 2016. There's a little government logo on it. It says "Ministry of Security and Justice" and it says under the heading of attack threat: "There is no concrete evidence that terrorists are actually preparing." I just gave you the facts. These are the facts the Minister endorses. Then the question is: how concrete does he want it to be? This is in the Threat Statue. So the question is whether we are well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u94	Then Mr Kuzu draws the conclusion from the facts which he has outlined and which we have indicated that preparations are being made for an attack in the Netherlands. It is very unfortunate to have to say it, but that is precisely the question of what the criminal investigation is about. What was the intention of the persons involved? What was the purpose and background of the information available? That's what's being investigated. Mr Kuzu can draw his own conclusions. I can't. That's a question for the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u95	In my view, this has already been discussed enough and sufficiently requested. This is without prejudice to the possibility for Members of Parliament, including myself, to draw such conclusions. I think it is also the duty of the Minister to clarify the Netherlands, to give clarity to Dutch people, to remove the concerns of many people on this subject. I see a minister here who doesn't. I find that disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u96	I cannot support Mr Kuzu's conclusion. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij has asked about the false IDs and what we are doing about them. Let me say first of all that Mr Van der Staaij is right when he is concerned about the use of false identity cards. It is also known that this is happening, not only by people with a terrorist intention, but also by criminals. IDs known to have been stolen or lost are always registered in the Schengen Information System and Interpol's Stolen and Lost Travel Documents system. If the identity of a person is checked at standing, the document will be checked for security features and these files can be checked. If there is a forged identity document or an abuse of another identity document, this is a criminal offence in the Netherlands and of course the identity document is taken and the person concerned is prosecuted. I come to Mr Van der Staaij's question on evaluation. Let me say first of all that, of course, in all the incidents that take place, all the services involved always evaluate and assess whether they were prepared, whether they should change their working methods or whether they should look at other elements. The essence of working together within Europe and with parties outside Europe is also to learn from each other over and over again. The subject is serious. So serious that you have to want yourself to always be busy, looking for improvement. This fits with the professionalism of the services. Then I'll talk my case about the D.A.'s office and about the national police. But that also applies to the approach we have developed together with municipalities in the so-called case referrals. Let me give you an example of the attacks in Germany, where someone who was in high school turned out to be radicalised in a short time. This raises the question of whether we have been trained in trainings over 3,500 people in education to recognize signs of radicalisation and must add something we can learn from the situation in Germany. That question is constantly being asked. These issues are, of course, also being evaluated in this way. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked what measures were being tightened up following the incidents described. The threat level of the Netherlands has been set at substantial levels since March 2013. Mrs Van Toorenburg and others have already said that. This means that the chance of an attack is considered real. It also means that the measures have already been applied at that level. Schiphol fits as a possible target within that current threat picture, as is the case with global aviation. For this reason, the security measures at Schiphol Airport were already adapted to the threat picture in 2014. This also applies to the deployment of services such as the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Van Raak asked about the capacity of the Royal Marechaussee. It's a good thing we're zooming in on that. Two tasks of the Royal Marechaussee are important. One task is to monitor and secure the system. In that system, the Cabinet has made additional resources available to prepare additional platons of the Marechaussee for high-risk security. The fifth platoon will be ready in November 2016. The preparation of the sixth peloton is scheduled for January 2017. This also ensures adequate monitoring and security capacity at Schiphol Airport. The second task at the Royal Marechaussee is border controls. That's where we see two things. Firstly, there is a demand for more border controls, including in the situations we are seeing here. Secondly, the number of passengers via Schiphol Airport, which is now around 60 million people per year, is expected to increase in the coming years. There are talks going on to see how we can meet this additional need together with Schiphol and other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u97	I am very pleased that the Minister is going to talk to Schiphol about this, because we are hearing disturbing noises. They have something to do with the military police, but they also have something to do with security. Schiphol is outsource champion, especially when it comes to security. Security spending has fallen considerably and people working at Schiphol Airport, including in the handling of suitcases and the like, have not all been screened. That also gives holes in security. Is the Minister prepared not only to talk to Schiphol about the number of marechaussees, but also to review Schiphol's entire security policy and to check whether there are enough people, whether all these people have been checked, what kind of security companies are active and who is behind them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u98	I find it difficult to answer that, because this subject is not part of my portfolio. This is partly from the Secretary of State responsible for border control and partly from the Minister of I and M. Eh no, that is from my department. I am happy to see if I can say anything specific about this in the second term. Let me say in general terms that we are not going to talk to Schiphol; that is a continuous process. There is close cooperation with Schiphol in all these areas, because Schiphol is one of our main concerns in this area, given the number and nature of travellers. Of course there's talk to Schiphol. Last summer there were serious concerns, which were raised through trade unions and even strikes. I also know that the Secretary of State has been working extensively with Schiphol. The aim is, of course, to ensure that no unacceptable risks are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u99	If we have a debate on a possible or failed attack on Schiphol, it is not strange for a Member of Parliament to ask questions about the security of Schiphol. I would like the Minister to take the following with him in the talks with Schiphol. According to the employees, are there enough people? Have these people been checked out, too? Do we know who's out there? Do we know what kind of companies are behind this? Many tasks at Schiphol Airport have been outsourced, including sensitive tasks, security tasks and baggage handling. People are all over the place with passes. Is there anyone who directs that? Is there anyone who knows what kind of people are out there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u100	I'll take that question with me to the second term. I'll get that straightened out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u101	I had also asked a question about this, namely whether we were not asking too many questions from the Royal Marechaussee. After all, there are signs that it has been over-asked and that it is unable to cope with this important task of securing Schiphol. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u102	I have just mentioned this about monitoring and securing the system, which is specifically about the task of securing Schiphol and other locations in the Netherlands, such as Jewish institutions, but also the parliament and the departments. We have such concerns about these locations on the basis of the level of security that we believe that there is a need for additional security. Structural investments are being made in this system. Those additional platoons provide for that capacity to be available. For this, too, you always have to train those people. You can't put people out there uneducated. These people need to be trained. I was there myself the other day. I have seen what part of that training looks like; that is very impressive. I'm not worried about that right now. At the same time, I report that the 2017 budget has released an amount of 20 million for border and foreign control. That is precisely the other aspect that I have just spoken to Mr Van Raak about. This will also be used for activities and security measures, including at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u103	I'm getting these signals that there's so much demand from the police. The Minister pointed out that it is also used in other buildings and in other situations to assist in security. But there are more strategic spots. I just mentioned the ports. For example, the port of Rotterdam is a very strategic place where there is hardly any security. The police are running out of water. So our safety is at risk in all kinds of places. Is this Minister sufficiently impressed by the urgency of this problem? He says he doesn't see the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u104	I didn't say I didn't see any trouble. It is important to put forward that of the Royal Marechaussee but also, for example, of the cooperating services, such as the Special Interventions Service, in the context of our security. There's no discussion about that. This also applies in other areas where people are involved in the fight against terrorism in the Netherlands. All sails are added at this time. There's no other way, and that's the way it's supposed to be. This also means that additional people are being trained and hired everywhere. This delay is therefore being overcome; it is all better. In 2017 and the years after, we make structural extra money available, also for the Special Interventions Service, because we realize that we are asking a lot of them. The same goes for the Royal Marechaussee. We're prepared, we're working on it, and we're making the capacity increase, but that doesn't change the fact that a lot is being asked of these people. That is what Mr Segers is right about. I will come back to his question about the ports. I need to see to what extent I can answer that question, because that requires a different kind of insight into what we are doing there. And that's just not what I'm gonna be able to give. So let me look at how I can reassure Mr Segers as much as possible. Mr Recourt asked about Dutch travellers. Are there areas of great concern in the Netherlands? Given the geographical distribution of travellers, they come from different parts of the country. They don't all focus on the same place. This means working with all the public authorities involved to prevent radicalisation and exit at district level as well as tackling jihadist networks. We do this by paying attention to early warning and improving the signalling capacity of all kinds of first-line professionals. The training of people in education is an example of this by now 3,500 people. Of course, this also applies to the activities of the district agents and other district-related professionals who work for or do not work for the municipality. Structural investments are made in cooperation with communities and with municipalities. Money has been made available for this, and that is why we are on the right track as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u105	That all sounds fantastic, and that is all very necessary, but do we have a view on the other side of the situation? This is what the government does, but do we also know what the communities themselves do? Are there communities, neighborhoods, in the Netherlands that see the government as their enemy and opponent and where it is said: I have nothing with the government and I am not going to tell them anything at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u106	I don't know. I cannot rule that out, but our commitment is to ensure that we have the best possible position in contact with these communities as well. In general, the district agents have that position as well, of course, and they are in contact with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u107	I'm not asking for nothing. Is it being determined whether a district like Molenbeek in Belgium also exists in the Netherlands? Are these neighborhood agents under orders to see if they're trusted, if they're getting the necessary information? Or is it just waiting to see if we also have Molenbeeks in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u108	These risks are mitigated along two lines. Firstly, this is a question of integration. By engaging in a wide range of activities with all these communities, Mr Asscher of Social Affairs and Employment is trying to prevent such an atmosphere. Secondly, it is of course the duty of the district agent to be alert to these aspects, on signals that information may not be shared or even supported. That's part of the job. Of course, we're trying to get a look at that. That goes without saying. Mr Segers asked about international cooperation. I can say a lot about that, but I can also be relatively brief about it. Much has changed in recent months in the area of police cooperation. The size of the databases has increased enormously. Information exchange takes place both bilaterally and within Benelux police cooperation and via Europol. There we have Focal Points dedicated to terrorism, which are part of the European Counter Terrorism Centre. Information is shared in all possible ways. Mrs Van Toorenburg is concerned about the Brexit. I can understand that concern. I have also discussed this in detail with my new colleague. Together, we have established that our security must never suffer from choices made by the British Government in accordance with the choice of the British people. Of course, cooperation with the United Kingdom remains of great importance, especially for the Netherlands, because we are against them, even though the English may occasionally see it differently. The way in which the Brexit should take shape is really still a subject of discussion. From my responsibility, I will of course continue to monitor the importance of international cooperation in the fight against terrorism in the coming years, including with the United Kingdom, with or without Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u109	Can we get a little more concrete? If the English no longer participate in Europol, we will have a very serious problem. Of course, that's a protected network. You can't just let a country out there join anything. So could you be a little more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u110	Yesterday I spoke extensively with Commissioner Julian King, who is responsible for the Security Union, who is a newly created Euro Commissioner. He told me that the intention of the British Government is a voluntary opt-in to Europol. I have not yet been able to confirm this from English sources, but in itself it certainly seems to me to be a passable road. It seems complicated to me, because only Member States of the European Union were part of Europol. It will undoubtedly have to be dealt with. I also have the impression that, as far as the English Government is concerned, this is also what the predecessor of Amber Rudd, Theresa May, the current Prime Minister, has already told me, should not be any difference in the way she works with Europe and with European services and investigative bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u111	That's very good. Can the Minister assure us that he will continue to inform us about this? You cannot be part of Europe at the same time, but you can continue to benefit from everything we build together to make Europe safe. I'd like to share and I'd especially like safety, but freeriders really kill a little brother.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u112	I'll be happy to inform the Chamber about that. I assume that this will be government-wide, because many issues will be relevant in the context of the Brexit. This is one of them. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about the roadmap. The roadmap that we have been able to agree with the other Member States in our Presidency consists of a series of actions. We have always chosen not only to write down the necessary action, but also the clear agreements about the follow-up and action. There must be more quality and uniformity. Efforts must be made if you do not want to share information instead of the other way around. For example, in the area of SIS alerts, all these actions are also underway. It's being implemented vigorously. We've also made agreements about who's monitoring that information. I spoke specifically about this with Commissioner Julian King yesterday. I said that I would appreciate it very much if the European Commission would independently monitor compliance with the commitments of the Roadmap. The implementation is also monitored over and over again in the COSI working group and in the JHA Council, as well as in the leading group of the most concerned Member States, the so-called G13, which is part of the Netherlands. The next time will be tomorrow morning, during the breakaway breakfast in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u113	There is a risk that I will ask for something that is not entirely correct, but if so, the Minister will certainly explain it to me in a very kind way. I have just received a report on the Commission's report on the Security Union. Chapter 3 of this chapter deals with data exchange. It says that countries such as Greece and Italy do not exchange and do not import information on fingerprints, DNA and license plates, for example. Those look like parts that need to be taken. How am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u114	I believe that this report is also in favour of continuing to talk to each other about the exchange of information. For the second time, I will check whether those points are in fact in it. However, one thing is certain: my starting point as President of the European Union has always been, and I am also trying to prove this need with the Slovak Presidency, that there is a need to ensure that the agreements are complied with, and that we are therefore as close as possible to the desire of some parties to achieve mandatory information exchange. To those who have asked questions about this, I can already say that there was absolutely no majority for that in Europe. Then we said: we'll make sure we get as close to it as possible, so you'll share your information unless there are good arguments not to. An example of such an argument may be the protection of sources or the fact that investigations are ongoing. You can imagine. But in the second term I will come back to Mrs Van Toorenburg's point about Greece and Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u115	Before you go any further, I'd like to know how much longer you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u116	I have a bunch of questions about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u117	How big is that pile?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u118	These are still two specific issues, including "contra-terrorism, general." Let me take a look at what I am going to say, because I think I have already dealt with a great deal in the debate. Asked what we are doing to ensure that more information is provided about people travelling to and from the Netherlands or travelling in Europe. A very important tool for this is the PNR instrument (Passenger Name Record). The Netherlands is working on this. The Directive has been adopted. We will send the bill on this to the Chamber as soon as possible. Meanwhile, we are working on making the necessary instrument operational, allowing us to process all the information in a good way. By the way, we have developed this instrument ourselves. We have now also offered this to the Member States, which could also make use of it. In this way, we hope to be able to fill in quickly. Mr Verhoeven asked about the police liaison in Belgium. We have had a discussion on this in the past. A senior police officer has been seconded to the Belgian federal police. So we're on top of the investigation. The same goes for Paris, by the way. We therefore have an adequate view of what is happening in Belgium. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office still has independent contact with the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office. Also in Paris there is a Public Prosecutor liaison at our embassy. Then I come to the questions put by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Segers about Europol.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u119	Before proceeding, I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u120	I would like to break into the Minister's reply with a current message that is now all over the Internet. It is reported that there are Dutch ISIS fighters trapped in Syria with rebels. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security (NCTV), Mr Schoof, then said to BNR about a Dutchman stuck in Syria: "And then we will also ensure that he comes to the Netherlands. Then he is escorted to the Netherlands, with the help of the Royal Marechaussee. Then he is arrested and interrogated here in the Netherlands. Then we will continue the investigation, to ensure that he does not avoid his punishment, because being a member of a terrorist organisation is a criminal offence in the Netherlands." Did he know about this message, so I ask the Minister, and are Mr Schoof's statements correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u121	I myself have just seen on the internet that there would be a matter of a Dutchman who might be in detention with a Syrian fighting group that is not quite clear to me.... is not part of ISIS or associated organizations. In general, what Mr Schoof says is our policy. Someone who was a member of a terrorist organisation and who is reporting somewhere, for example in Turkey, will be transported to the Netherlands in accordance with the agreements with our Turkish colleagues, if he is detained in Turkey and has Dutch nationality. Then he will be arrested here and if that can be tried. That's the deal we have with each other, and I think that's what we should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u122	So Mr Schoof says "and the Minister confirms that "the policy of the cabinet is to return former ISIS fighters or IS fighters to the Netherlands and then be subject to criminal investigation here, but how does that relate to statements by the Prime Minister, who said in a debate just before the Provincial State elections that emigrated jihadists should be killed instead of returning to the Netherlands? That is what the Prime Minister said at the time, and I am now asking the Minister what the policy of this cabinet is. At the time, the Prime Minister said that jihadists should die there rather than return to the Netherlands. He literally said that he was in favour of that statement, and now this minister says that the policy is that IS fighters return to the Netherlands to be tried here. What's the deal with that? Has the cabinet changed its mind? Has the policy changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u123	It may be me, but I don't quite understand why these two things are now being combined. If someone dies, he doesn't have to be transferred to the Netherlands, and if someone doesn't die, our rule of law requires him to be taken into custody and a criminal investigation is under way. Well, if he's gonna sign up for something, then that's a condition. We do not currently have an extradition relationship with Syria, but if, for example, he is arrested in Turkey, then that existing procedure will simply be followed. There are not many returners at the moment, but they have done so several times in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u124	The debate has also been held a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u125	Yeah, it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u126	I know that, Mr President, but it is a current report that shows that IS fighters simply come back to the Netherlands, at least that's the cabinet policy to be tried, while Mr Rutte said a few days before the last Provincial State elections that there should be no trial because jihadists can better die in Syria instead of returning to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u127	You have made your point, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u128	Then I'll ask the Minister exactly what's going on. What is the policy of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u129	As far as I understand it, Mr Verhoeven would like to hear that there is apparently a policy aimed at something that does not fit, but I am not going to interpret his words. Our policy is very simple. Everyone who is arrested, for example in Turkey, is carefully returned to the Netherlands. We have agreed to this with our Turkish colleagues. Such a person will be subject to criminal investigation and he will also be arrested on the grounds that he has been a member of a terrorist organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u130	I give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u131	It shouldn't be much crazier. The NCTV says that we will pick up Dutch Syrians with the Royal Marechaussee and bring them to the Netherlands. I believe that the person from Mr Verhoeven's example was not at all in Turkey but in Syria. How much crazier does it have to be? Leave them there nicely! When such Syrians return to the Netherlands, they get an anklet from the judge and walk freely on the street. They're running time bombs. If the minister said we'd get them all back and then put them all in jail, he could say so, but he doesn't. Leave them there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u132	The policy of the Netherlands is no different than it is. At the time someone is arrested in Turkey, for example, which happens very rarely, but it happens before... becomes such a person, because he has Dutch nationality, returned to the Netherlands and here prosecuted and tried. That's our standing policy. Let me say the following. If the First Chamber were to agree to the bill that lies there, which I hope and trust will be supported by the PVV Group, it would give me the opportunity to withdraw Dutch nationality if there is a double nationality. Then, of course, it is no longer possible to return to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u133	But for now, that's possible. For the time being, you have returned dozens of people. This was done under your responsibility, when you were Minister of Justice; it is you, I fear. Most of it's out on the street. They receive a re-integration course or a deradicalisation course, with a social worker and a psychologist. They're going to the community center. If they've made it a little furry, they get an ankle bracelet imposed by a judge and they walk around the street. They're running time bombs! As a VVD minister, you are responsible for ensuring that every Dutchman is in great danger, because you return them and do not fasten them. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u134	I know Mr Wilders' views on this point. We have also talked about this many times in the past. There is no question of people being picked up in Syria; let me say that for the sake of clarity. This could only happen if people, for example by Turkey, were put in a position to be handed over to us. I hope that we will soon have the means to withdraw Dutch nationality from these people, from these extravagants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u135	Are you going to finish? The Minister for the Interior has yet to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u136	Yeah, I'm rounding up. I can inform the Chamber that all 28 EU Member States are now members of the European Counter Terrorism Centre. So everyone provides data. So it is not just the five countries that Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned; it is much wider. I'm coming to Turkey. I have already said that the arrangements are good. I would like to stress here that as a coordinating minister for counter-terrorism, I have a very good and close consultation with my colleague from the Interior and Kingdom Relations. If there is terrorism-related investigations, they will be arrested both under criminal law and under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. There is continuous coordination on the basis of existing powers and possibilities. I have answered all the questions of your Chamber, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u137	I asked another question about what we learned from Germany. The German government has asked people in Arabic to join the search for a fugitive terrorist. Does the government in the Netherlands also use such measures? If not, are we going to organize it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u138	If necessary, this will undoubtedly be one of the instruments. At that time, you want to ensure that everyone is aware that someone is specifically wanted, as in this case in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u139	But it's not there yet. May I ask the Minister to work on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u140	I'd love to, but this is not so much something that we need separate laws and regulations for. It's pretty simple. At the moment when an APB has to be issued because someone is specifically wanted because of a threat that was very concrete in Germany then we will make sure that that information is made available in all possible ways and in all possible languages, for example via social media. That goes without saying. There's no discussion about that. I would like to leave a note to confirm that to Mr Recourt, but that is really not necessary. If you have to, you have to. It's too important not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u141	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u142	Madam President. I will answer a number of questions that have been put to me, in addition to what my colleague has said in the last few hours. I do so, of course, on the basis of my political responsibility for the General Intelligence and Security Service, the AIVD. Let me start with that. I think there's no misunderstanding about that either. I do not speak publicly about the level of knowledge of the AIVD, so what we know or knew. That information is being gathered. Special resources are being used for this, within the legal framework that we have. That information shall be shared with its customers. That could be the State Department. Sometimes that's local government, but it could also be the state's attorney's office. Two prosecutors are permanently stationed in Zoetermeer so that that information is optimal. They can assess, in the context of the work they do, which part of the information can be made public and which part is not. In principle, we do not make public information about the level of knowledge and the methodology other than through annual reports and general research reports that do not deal with individual cases. So within that framework, I will answer the questions, but frankly, the question has already shown that the Court realizes that framework. So I think I should be able to answer all the questions adequately. First of all, I say that the investigation of terrorism has absolute priority within the AIVD. Among others, Mr Segers asked questions about the AIVD's capacity. I can say that the budget of the AIVD has only increased every year since the cabinet took office. We're hiring a lot of new people right now. The appointment is now limited not by the budget, but by the absorption capacity of a professional organisation like the AIVD. I have made the appointment within the cabinet that I will report it in the Trêveszaal as the professional leadership of the AIVD, so the dg AIVD, to me would say that a limited budget means that one can no longer do what one should do. I have made an appointment with my colleagues in the cabinet. You do not have such an appointment in every area that this can then count on a sympathetic ear from colleagues. But again, at the moment new people are being appointed and put into work, because that is obviously necessary to keep pace with the threat. At the initiative of the AIVD, European cooperation in the so-called Counter Terrorism Group was very serious during the Dutch Presidency. The good news is that it consists of 30 members, 28 members of the EU plus 2 members of Norway and Switzerland. That's good news because the Brexit Group (CTG) will not have any influence on the composition of the Counter Terrorism Group (CTG). It is already quite clear that the English service will continue to be part of the group in the same way as the Norwegian and Swiss services. That is very important, because the CTG is one of the extremely professional and important services in Europe that we work closely with. The starting point within the Counter Terrorism Group is that there is not just some database on a website, but that the representatives of each of the countries meet physically and regularly in a permanent place. They shall ensure that the information is kept up-to-date and that it is filtered for relevance. Because if everything is dumped, you can't find the relevant information in the haystack at some point. The starting point is therefore that all relevant information is shared there. That is also an answer to Mr Verhoeven's question. He asked me, in his own right, if you shouldn't make that mandatory. After the major attacks in Europe, everyone has a clear eye that there is a great common interest in sharing information. So that is entirely voluntary. I think right now is the best way to work. If you were to impose this obligation, it would become extremely complicated, because each of the countries has its own legal framework for its intelligence and security services. Those services are very different. Sometimes the boundaries with the task of the public prosecutor in other countries are just as different. We have discussed this with Mrs Van Toorenburg. So if we first have to create a legal framework for that, we will be working on it for five years. The starting point is that we all agree that there is not a single European intelligence and security service, but that the anti-terrorist services work together as if there were one in terms of the database and the exchange of information. Everyone understands that's how it's supposed to happen. Maybe I can compliment the AIVD. The leadership given to the Counter Terrorism Group during the Dutch Presidency has been so good that it has been decided to continue for the next two and a half years at official level in the way it is now organized. So the dg AIVD remains very involved in organizing the Counter Terrorism Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u143	I have a more detailed question about this. We recently made an interesting work visit to the service in Zoetermeer. We talked about this in detail, so we talked about that database. My question, certainly heard the beginning of this debate, is that we all very much want to know who these two figures were. We want to know what their travel movements and their motivations were. Is this database now the place these two characters should be pupating on? Is this the place where we're all gonna gather all the information? Is this where all the alarm bells go red when there's a chance of a hit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u144	This is the stock in which European services exchange structural information on terrorist fighters. That's what I can say about it. I assume that Mrs Tellegen is not trying to indirectly inform who is or is not in that file, because that would be a question of the level of knowledge of the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u145	We also run around the returners and the extravagants every time against the frustrating point that one country does share information and not the other country. One country does have the place in order and the other country doesn't. We are all eagerly looking for the place where that information is optimally shared so that we can identify these types of figures in time. So I'm pleased with the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u146	Then I come to Mr Van Raak's question as to whether we have the jihadist network in mind. That is clearly the intention. As I said, we can talk about capacity. That's the picture right now that the service can do what it has to do. Of course, you don't know if you've got it all in the picture. Mr Van Raak did not ask, but that is the state of play. I got a question about the state of play regarding the Wiv of both the PvdA and the CDA. I can say that the proposal went to the Council of State after an extensive round of consultations, which was also very serious about this. We're working on the more detailed report now. I aim to bring that report to the Council of Ministers in November or ideally even before November, so that it can come to the House of Representatives with a more detailed report. So I fully share Mrs Van Toorenburg's sense of urgency in putting that law before the Chamber as soon as possible and getting it dealt with. Then it is in your hands, Mr President. At the same time, I would like to express my sympathy for the time taken to give advice on this matter. Where we can never speak publicly about what the service does, it is important that the legal framework is clear about what the service is allowed to do, because of course you always have to deal with questions about the balance between privacy and security in a serious way. So this is a law that will determine that balance for the next 10 to 15 years. It can't be a rush. I have set up a separate management group led by one of the members of the top consultant group precisely to ensure that we continue to speed up the whole process. I think we're doing the right thing. Mr Verhoeven asked a question about encryption. I believe that my colleague, Mr Dijkhoff, has given written answers to this question. The cabinet has not chosen, if this could be technically and internationally, to oblige providers to create weaknesses in the encryption for consumers, although this would in itself make the lives of the security services easier. The services must live with the encryption as it is. Furthermore, I cannot speak publicly about what that means for what the services can do, despite these limitations. I think I've answered most of the questions with this and I'm gonna take a breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u147	Combating terrorism is preventing radicalisation. That is why Mr Roemer and Mr Zijlstra proposed to the Chamber more than a year ago to publish a list of Salafist organisations that condone violence and preach hatred against our society. The Chamber has accepted that proposal. This list is intended to prevent citizens, businesses, municipalities and organisations from cooperating with this type of salafist organisation. The Minister of Social Affairs refuses to implement this. I have a question about the mail delivery. The AIVD has been investigating these kinds of salafistic organizations for years, so that list is in the Ministry of the Interior. Can the Minister ensure that in one of the vans that always run between ministries, that list is taken to Social Affairs so that that list can be made public before we deal with the Home Affairs budget here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u148	I think Mr Van Raak knows the answer to this question, because I am of course always an appeal body when MPs are caught up with other ministers. No, I'm not serious; the cabinet has a portfolio responsibility. In my introduction, I said that various bodies, including other departments, could of course be a customer of information provided by the AIVD. It is then up to them to see which part of the information they use in any way, including its disclosure. So I have no choice but to pass this comment on to my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u149	We want to make that list public in order to prevent citizens, businesses, municipalities and organisations from cooperating with, having tasks carried out by or providing subsidies to the wrong organisations in the future. I can imagine that this is annoying for some drivers, because subsidies have been given in the past and there has been close cooperation. I can even imagine that this is annoying for the Minister of Social Affairs and therefore he would prefer not to make that list public. But can we agree that this can never be the reason why that list does not become public? On the contrary, we want to prevent citizens, businesses, municipalities and organisations from cooperating with these Salafists. Does the Minister at least agree with me that nasty past events and subsidy relationships can never be the reason that that list is not going public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u150	In all seriousness, I am politically responsible for the AIVD, which, within the legal framework, is using special means to obtain intelligence for the benefit of national security. If this information is relevant, for example in the fight against terrorism, it is shared with the various ministries active in this area. If the information relates to integration, it is shared with the Ministry of Social Affairs. There ends what I can now answer to the Chamber. So it's the same question and the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u151	When we talk about terrorism and the fight against terrorism in the Chamber, many people get the impression that it is only one form of terrorism, the terrorism that we have also talked about in detail today. Capacity has been developed in recent years. Is there sufficient attention to all forms of terrorism other than sec for terrorism that we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u152	The answer is yes. I refer to the annual report of the AIVD, in which Mr Kuzu can read about animal activism, left activism, right activism and other tasks of the AIVD, such as counter-espionage. It is true - and I have just begun to do so - that we have temporarily shifted our priority to counter-terrorism in the field of the jihadist threat, because this is by far the greatest threat facing Europe today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u153	I believe that this priority of the Chamber is clear, but I would like to call for all these other forms of terrorism to be reflected in the threat images of the NCTV that we are seeing. At 20 pages 19.5 pages are about that form of terrorism and half a page about all other forms of terrorism mentioned by the minister. I would also like to quote criticism of the German intelligence service in 2012. It has been literally said that there has been too much focus on the threat of jihadism and right-wing extremists have also escaped attention. I would like to send that message to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u154	Thank you for this signal, but it's unnecessary. I referred to the AIVD's annual report, which shows that we are also active in other areas. There are now people who think Pim Fortuyn was murdered by a jihadist. We know that's not the case. We know that there are other threats, and we need to keep a close eye on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u155	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We are now going to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u156	Madam President. What a mess, what a charade. What a general discussion this was instead of a normal debate. The Netherlands remains in total uncertainty whether or not there were terrorists in the Netherlands. Total uncertainty about those two ISIS-goers and whether they were planning an attack on Schiphol. The Minister of Justice is hiding behind the Belgians. He doesn't even want to answer the question if he knows himself without giving the answer to us whether or not they were in the Netherlands. That is purely political unwillingness. I can't put it any different. It has nothing to do with criminal law, it's purely political unwillingness. The Minister is probably afraid to give the answer. He's the minister of nothing. He doesn't know anything, he doesn't say anything, and he doesn't do anything. That is also bad for Dutch politics, because I cannot control him. The fact that the Minister was only informed on 29 April about people who were there on 13 November makes it clear that if they came, he did not know it on 13 November. Perhaps I would have liked to treat the Minister to a motion of censure. I would have said: had listened to us, would have closed the borders. Then the chance on November 13 would have been greater that the minister had caught them. I can't file a motion of censure right now, because I don't know. I'm not going to file a motion of censure if they haven't come to the Netherlands. I can't do that. By hiding behind the Belgians, the Minister has spared himself a motion of censure. Of course, that is not the way democracy works. It's a minister of nothing, a minister of nothing. That's very bad. So it is a good thing that we have elections very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. I have just reported it in the case of interruption: the Minister's example was very striking. He said that there are people in the Netherlands who think Pim Fortuyn was killed by someone who calls himself a jihadist. That has everything to do with the way we communicate. I already gave an example from the threat reports. I'll make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the NCTV report "Threat Barometer - Ten Years Threat Image Terrorism The Netherlands 2005-2015" repeatedly points out the over-one-sided focus on jihadism;]] [[noting that the report concludes that "in particular right-wing extremists sometimes seem to be played down";]] [[calls on the Government to identify the consequences of this on the threat picture and what steps it intends to take in response to the above conclusion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u158	Madam President. Thank you for the answer given by both ministers, although of course the necessary remains unclear. After all, we cannot really go into the facts, but only talk about general measures. On that very point, in connection with this case, I have a motion for a resolution. The issue is about free travel within Schengen area by potential terrorists, people who are associated with terrorist activities and who support them, but who do not yet have a criminal conviction. For them too, you should be able to take a measure so that they cannot just travel to other countries within the Schengen area. This seems to me to be a useful contribution to the controllability of these potential terrorists. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to prevent potential terrorists travelling freely within the Schengen area;]] [[considers that a ban on leaving the Netherlands and travelling to one or more other countries within the Schengen area is a good means of combating terrorism;]] [[noting that such a ban exists in, inter alia, Germany and France;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how, within the scope of the Schengen Convention, it is possible to establish a ban on the territory of the Netherlands for residents of other States or a ban on travelling to one or more other States, and to submit proposals to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-399]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. I hope I have the attention of the ministers, because when I first made my contribution, I noticed that the Minister of the Interior was tweeting about the King's visit to Amsterdam-Southeast, while we still have to keep our eyes on the failed attack on Schiphol. I find it unsatisfactory that the Minister of Security and Justice does not want to say whether these two potential terrorists were on their way to Schiphol on Dutch soil. I do not need information that could compromise a criminal investigation, but I do want to be able to check as a Member of Parliament whether agreements we make here are being carried out. Each time an attack has been committed, the perpetrators appear to be known and part of an international network. As a Member of Parliament, I want to be able to check that these networks are being monitored. If people from these networks are in the Netherlands, I want to know if they are in the picture and are being followed. That's basic information I need as a Member of Parliament to do my controlling work. I just want to hear from the Minister of Security and Justice whether or not these people were in the Netherlands. Or doesn't the minister know? That could be a third answer. One of these three answers I want to hear: they were in the Netherlands; they were not in the Netherlands; we do not know. I would like to know from the Minister of the Interior if the AIVD is able to draw up a list of Salafist organizations in the Netherlands that condone violence and preach hatred and hatred against our freedom and democracy. The AIVD has been researching this for many years. I can't imagine it isn't. Is the AIVD capable of drawing up such a list?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mr. Chairman. It has been a debate that has not really taken away the concerns, but I do not think that the cabinet can do anything about it directly. It's just that it's a big worry. The cabinet has to take steps every time that might make it a little safer. In the second term, I will receive a number of answers on that roadmap, in particular with regard to that one report, which would show that there is a problem with the exchange of fingerprints, registrations and DNA between countries where large flows of refugees are going and where there are risks for returning jihadists. I'd like to hear that from the Minister later. Then our dependence on Belgium. I think Mr Wilders is putting it quite honestly. I also have a bad feeling that we are too dependent on a lawsuit going on in another country, while there was a great threat in the Netherlands. We must follow it, we cannot act on it now, but I do want us to be kept informed. It is important that laws come to the Chamber so that we can deal with them. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas two important legislative proposals which could be useful in the fight against serious crime and the fight against terrorism have not yet been dealt with in plenary (Computer Crime Act III) and in writing (Intel and Security Services Act 2002) have been dealt with in the Chamber and have been with the government for a long time;]] [[invites the Government to send these laws to the Chamber as soon as possible after the autumn recess and in any case well before Christmas, so that the Chamber can treat them as a priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-400]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u161	This also gives us a signal: we really need to get to work on this quickly. I was a little shocked that apparently a consultant at the Ministry is working to ensure that a law is dealt with quickly. Can the Minister say anything about that? I thought that was a little weird. In any case, we must take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u162	Madam President. I thank both rulers for their answers. One question remains open, namely that of the protection of ports and other strategic areas. The Minister had announced, with a few blows to the arm, that he would say a little more about it, but he didn't get to it. So I'm gonna give him the warm invitation to say something about that. This has been a rather difficult debate. We were talking about a case, and for understandable reasons the Minister indicated that we cannot speak quite freely about it. At the same time, one small story of such a case tells a much bigger story about threat and the need for protection. So it makes sense to keep talking about this every time. However, it was equally difficult to maneuver: how does the criminal investigation relate to parliamentary accountability? On that point, I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the importance of criminal investigations may be at odds with informing the House of Representatives;]] [[points out that it is desirable to share as much information as possible with the Lower House and at the same time not to prejudice the importance of criminal investigations;]] [[Calls on the Government, in order to examine the budget of Security and Justice for 2017, to establish its criteria for the sharing of information that may also be relevant to criminal investigations and to forward them to the Chamber in order to allow for further exchange of views,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-401]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u163	I am left only to wish both the services and the rulers strength in a crucial task, namely the safeguarding of our security and freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u164	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to start where the previous speaker ended up, the inconvenience about informing the Chamber. It is used that you do not inform the Chamber about ongoing criminal investigation, nor any other, as this could harm the investigation. But how can we check that that is not a false argument to simply not fully inform the Chamber? My conclusion is that we cannot do that. We cannot do that because I, too, do not want to run the risk of a terrorist going free if the Minister does provide information. If you say too much here, the ultimate consequence is that the investigation is simply broken. If, however, the Minister were to give some of the information, what are we going to do about it as a Chamber? On the basis of half the information, are we going to give a clue: Minister, you have to tell the Public Prosecutor to prosecute it? I think that's pretty impossible, too. So I'm in a lot of trouble, too. I want to know, but I am well aware that this cannot be done now, and that we will have that openness when the case comes to court. Then we have the information. On another small point, I wanted to back up the SP. Is security at Schiphol Airport in order? I myself asked the question about conflicts of interest when economic interests are fighting security interests. I have not yet had an answer to that question. During the debate, I also received the request to support the SP with regard to baggage handling. We, too, are getting signals that safety would not be fully in order. I would like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u165	Mr. Chairman. The debate has not contributed at all to our information position. The most basic questions remained unanswered. It is still unclear whether or not the terrorists have been in the Netherlands and whether or not Schiphol was the target of an attack. What we do know from earlier cases is that the Dutch borders are as leaky as a colander. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that terrorists were likely to travel to the Netherlands unhindered in November 2015;]] [[Whereas it has already been found that one of the perpetrators of the attacks in Brussels could move freely through our country;]] [[Whereas it has been found on several occasions that terrorists abuse the asylum influx to commit attacks in Europe;]] [[calls on the government to guard our borders as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Klaveren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-402]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u166	Mr. Chairman. A strange debate and a meaningless cabinet, which has been forced by a criminal investigation to say nothing, but which, of course, blocks the information position of the Chamber. As a result, it was only about general issues. We welcome the cabinet's position on encryption, which has been reaffirmed. It is bad that the cabinet is not going to speed up the mandatory exchange of data. My group has been calling for this for a very long time, and there is a room for manoeuvre that is not being carried out. Finally. The Minister of Justice, a member of Mr Rutte's party, acted as if he did not understand my question at the last Interruption. With all due respect, I'd almost say: fool the cat! The Prime Minister made tough, Wilderian statements just before elections: Dutch extravagants have to die in the desert and not be tried. That was the Prime Minister's language. Now the cabinet simply chooses to be tried. That is to condemn the rule of law before the elections, but after the elections shamedly embrace the rule of law again. This kind of behaviour by Mr Rutte and Mr Van der Steur gives justice and democracy a bad name and feeds populism, while Minister Van der Steur has just asked for the confidence of the Chamber after today. How did the cabinet get back to the words of Prime Minister Rutte? Did the cabinet do any legal research? Are there circumstances that have changed the government's mind? I would like to receive a letter from the cabinet with an answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mr. Chairman. This was one of the rare times that I agreed with my colleague Wilders. This might as well be handled in an AO. We have not made much progress in this debate, for understandable reasons, as I said in my previous speech. I fully agree with what my D66 colleague said: at all times before, during and after the elections, parties who sit in the cabinet can certainly be expected to promote the rule of law. Comments such as "death is the risk of burglar" or "let people die in the desert" I hope I don't hear back. I would also like to hear from this Minister that he distances himself from those terms and that he believes that our rule of law should simply be applied. I welcome the repeated confirmation that for the time being we still have encryption under the Dutch freedoms and that you can make out with someone without having a back door in it. I end with a statement that sounds very nice in English, but which I will do here in Dutch: in our attempt to protect freedom, we must not destroy freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u168	Mr. Chairman. We could not go into the facts, and actually we could have known that. As difficult as that is to accept, however much we want to know exactly what is going on when we read such a message in the newspaper, we seem to have to rely on our services. We must assume that the fact that we cannot always know something here in the Chamber does not mean that the services do not know it. I shall go back to the beginning of this debate, when it was about whether or not the two were in the Netherlands and why there is no independent investigation. I'm trying to summarize the cabinet's position for myself, and it would be nice if the minister could confirm that: "We don't make statements about an ongoing investigation. At the moment there is no reason to conduct an independent investigation in the Netherlands. That is the weighting that the services have made at the moment, in response to the information that is now available." If that could be confirmed again, that would be very nice. And does the possibility remain open to open a criminal investigation if there is reason to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u169	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Security and Justice will gladly speak. In the direction of Mr Recourt and Mrs Tellegen, I reaffirm that once the Belgian criminal investigation has been completed and there are reasons for the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office to decide on a criminal investigation, the Public Prosecutor's Office can do so. Of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office has its own powers to do so. Mr Segers asked about the ports. I did indeed skip that point in the first period. It goes without saying that the Dutch government is constantly paying attention to the threat situation, including in sectors such as sea ports. You can imagine people worrying about that. As soon as the intelligence services detect an increased terrorist threat in a particular sector or part of it, those business sectors, public authorities and operational services will be informed through the so-called alerting system to counter terrorism. New information always takes into account the measures already in force, the nature of any new information and whether new measures will result from it. The plans already prepared for additional security can therefore be quickly put into effect in order to reduce the threat and potential impact of a terrorist attack. The decision to scale up or scale down an alert level for a sector shall be taken by the Minister of Security and Justice as a coordinating director for counter-terrorism. So it has our attention; we are prepared for that. Ms Van Toorenburg asked about the issues raised in the report on Prüm, the EU's progress report on security. It concerns the Prüm framework, in which DNA, fingerprints and vehicle registrations are exchanged in a European context. Indeed, a number of Member States are lagging behind in implementing their commitments. The aforementioned progress report identifies improvement points. Not everyone's connected to the network yet. The Member States concerned have failed to do so. Their support will be given to comply with the European agreements as soon as possible. Mr Van Raak gave the signal, which was supported by Mr Recourt, that there would be a problem regarding baggage handling at Schiphol Airport. I will send the requested letter to the Chamber. I note that, contrary to what was said in the debate, everyone working in the secure area of Schiphol has been screened by the AIVD. The measures for public order and security are, of course, carried out by the Royal Marechaussee. The Royal Marechaussee also supervises and reports to me on the proper execution of all the work, including by private security organizations. I come to the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 398 of Mr Kuzu. He calls on the government to look at risks other than the jihadist risks. I inform him that the Threat Picture of Terrorism in the Netherlands also includes right-wing extremistism and other forms of extremism. I would like to refer him to the counter-terrorism strategy published this summer, in which explicit attention has been paid to the risks, including for the future, of forms of extremism other than jihadism. The motion will therefore be complied with. I therefore advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 399 by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Segers, the government is invited to examine the possibilities provided for in the Schengen Convention for a ban on the territory. I'd be happy to do that. I note, however, that there is already legislation in the First Chamber that creates opportunities in this direction. The withdrawal of passports is already taking place. Mr Plasterk recently spoke with the First Chamber and the Second Chamber about the identity cards in the context of the amendment of the Passport Act. There are area bans and there are exit bans under development, but I am happy to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. May I make a comment on the motion on item No. 401 by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij? This debate is regarded by a number of Members of the Chamber as unsatisfactory, because due to ongoing criminal investigations I cannot answer a number of questions about the activities of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, for which I am responsible. It concerns a small part, albeit an important part, of our overall counter-terrorism strategy. That does not mean that it sees the restriction on our entire policy. We have an integral policy, as indicated in the letter. On the one hand, this is designed by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. There are criminal investigations into more than 250 suspects in the Netherlands. That is the current policy we are pursuing. They're working hard on it day in, day out. We're building up files for criminal investigations into known expatriates. That's all work that's in progress. On the other hand, of course, we have the work of the intelligence and security services. That together is the overall policy as we conduct it. What is happening to me now is that I can confirm a number of things with regard to the work of the police and the Public Prosecutor on a number of points and not on a number of points relating to ongoing criminal proceedings. I would be happy to put the criterion that applies here again on paper. I would like to focus on the problem of public access on the one hand and ongoing criminal investigations on the other, but that does not mean that it would not create a complete picture of what we are all doing with each other. After all, we are doing a lot more than just criminal investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr Van Raak, on the motion by Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u172	No, about the Minister's comments. He also refers to a question I asked. He is right to say that there is a lot of policy and that there is a lot of hard work. That's all true, but as a Member of Parliament, I need to be able to check that it works. Now we've got a case under control. All we want to know is whether these two potential terrorists were on Dutch soil, whether they weren't on Dutch soil or if we don't know. That's a way for us to see if all these plans, all that hard work and all that thinking about attackers and networks is working or not, and whether we know it or not. I cannot imagine from far away that any criminal investigation will be obstructed in any way if the Minister says it is a, b or c.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u173	I've already talked about that in detail. I note that the answer I can give from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police does not give the overall picture either, because there is no mention of another important aspect of our fight against terrorism in public at all. That's something the Chamber needs to face. I'd be happy to write that note, but that'll be a relatively short note. I shall therefore leave the vote on the motion in respect of item No. 401 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u174	Mr Van Raak, finally. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u175	So that means the Chamber can't do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u176	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u177	That means that in cases where it is about an ongoing criminal investigation, that limitation is always there. This is an ongoing criminal investigation. Then I come to the motion on part No. 402, by Van Klaveren. I would point out that here too, the free movement of persons is a fundamental right within the European Union. We have a number of ways of monitoring the borders, and we do so if there are grounds for doing so, but within the Schengen framework. I must therefore discourage this motion. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u178	Mr Verhoeven has another question for the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u179	Oh, I forgot one. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u180	Yeah, I forgot. I asked a very clear and simple question, twice. I also paid attention to this in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u181	The Minister knows what question it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u182	Do you know what question it is, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u183	Yeah, I hope so. Mr Verhoeven asked whether it would be possible to explain again what is the difference between the government's position on the prosecution and trial of jihadists and the risk they have taken by moving themselves to Syria or Iraq to participate in the armed struggle, at the risk of their dying there. The Prime Minister has, I remember, discussed this extensively with Mr Pechtold of the D66 Group on an earlier occasion. He also indicated that the rule of law was being followed, of course, but he also had a sigh. I am not going to repeat that text, because I do not know exactly how it went and then we will have another discussion about it. We know the Prime Minister's sigh. It's very simple for me. If a person of Dutch nationality has been part of a terrorist organisation, then we are carrying out criminal investigations into it and we will also come to trial and prosecution if the person comes from there alive and is transported to the Netherlands via the appropriate channels. The Dutch government's policy is as simple as that. If, as a result of the choice he has made, the person concerned loses his life by participating in the armed struggle in countries such as Syria and Iraq, by being part of a terrorist organisation, that will not be necessary. Then the rule of law has nothing to do on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u184	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u185	The Minister's acting as if all this had been changed a long time ago. I think this is only partly true. That is why I am asking him once again, because this current case is now taking place. The Minister for Security and Justice confirms that last year, in March 2015, Mr Rutte's statements were not government policy and that there is simply no question of Rutte saying: rather let those jihad fighters die in the desert than they return. The Minister for Security and Justice says that this was not a correct representation of government policy and that the Prime Minister should not have said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u186	No, I'm not saying that at all. I would also like to point out to Mr Verhoeven that the Dutch Government is cooperating in the anti-IS coalition. In this context, it contributes to the conduct of bombardment flights aimed at combating IS. As a result, people who have made the choice to participate in the armed struggle may die. In this sense, the Dutch Government also contributes to the risk that these people have done themselves by choosing to take up arms for a terrorist organisation there. Yes indeed, there is a risk that they will die there. Yes indeed, there is a very good chance that they will commit serious criminal offences there. If they come out alive, these people will then be prosecuted on the basis of the rules of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u187	Mr. Chairman. I have a question and a motion on which my opinion might be of some importance. I will start with Mr Van Raak's question as to whether the AIVD can make a list of salafistic organisations public. Firstly, it is not the legal task of the AIVD to make such lists public. Secondly, it is, I understand, a question that was previously discussed with the SZW colleague at the AO on the fight against terrorism and on which he has given a number of answers with regard to the WODC investigation that is ongoing. So I do not want to make any further commitments here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u188	Brief question, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u189	I've been a Member of Parliament for about ten years now. In my opinion, in all these ten years, the AIVD has always done research into salafistic organizations in the Netherlands. I know it's not the AIVD's job to make lists public. That is the job of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. My question is whether the people of the AIVD work how many men there now, 1800 or so nowadays? It is therefore essential for the Commission to be able to draw up a proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers, in order to be able to produce
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u190	That is ultimately a question of the capacity of what the AIVD can do. I'll stay away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u191	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u192	I suspect 2,000 AIVDs in ten years will be able to make such a list. In fact, that list is already there. That list was there ten years ago. That list is just there. I ask this Minister if he is willing to give that one list to a driver of one of those vans that drive between ministries every day...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u193	This is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u194	...and make sure that the Ministry of the Interior comes to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Is that organizeable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u195	I'll let you in the middle see if there's 2,000 AIVDs. The rest of the answer I have actually already given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u196	Then I suggest that you proceed to the motion in part No. 400 goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u197	I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. I consider the first part of the operative part to be an encouragement to the cabinet to speed up the further report on both legislative proposals. I am happy to read in the second part of the Chamber's intention to treat them as a matter of priority. I appreciate that. So I'd like to leave the verdict on the motion to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-12-tweedekamer-6.u198	We will vote on the motions tabled the week after the autumn recess.
