ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators Mrs Voortman and Mr Van Weyenberg. They are supported by Giel van der Steenhoven, Marte van der Loop and Carsten Zwaaneveld in trade-K in the defense of the bill. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today, the first-term response of the initiators is discussed. The reply and rejoinder will be scheduled for a later date. It is my great honour to be the first to give the floor to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. "The public authorities shall be open to the public in the performance of their duties." This is stated in Article 110 of the Constitution. That's not for nothing. After all, any good relationship of trust is based on reciprocity. The relationship of trust between the citizen and the government is certainly no exception. For many years, the government has been working to remove the public's distrust of the government. On the other hand, public distrust of citizens is rarely addressed. Requests for public sector information are too often not accepted or frustrated for incorrect reasons. Moreover, the government still makes too little information public on its own. When the Public Administration Act (WOB) came into force in 1980, the Netherlands was a leading and progressive country in the field of public and transparent governance. Since then, freedom of information has become an important part of modern democracy throughout the world, and even so important that the Dutch Law on Publicity has become old-fashioned and conservative. As early as 1983 the review of the WOB by the Biesheuvel Committee revealed that many improvements were needed, including strengthening the active disclosure of information by public authorities and extending the scope of the law to parts of the semi-public sector. So that was 1983. A new evaluation commissioned by the Ministry of the Interior in 2004 also showed that the Public Administration Act should be completely renewed according to a majority of consulted experts. In the meantime, our country is lagging behind other countries. Since the fall of the Wall, Eastern European countries have sought to speed up the introduction of public access legislation. Some of them have made great progress in a short period of time. In Latvia, meetings of the Cabinet are even publicly accessible via the Internet. Representatives of civil society organisations can participate in this on a regular basis. Norway and Sweden now have an information register. This is used to the satisfaction of residents, companies and media. In England, Canada and Slovenia there is now an information commissioner, a watchdog for transparency. In the perspective of our modern information society, it is necessary to reform the Public Administration Act and to initiate an even more extensive disclosure of public sector information. The Netherlands of today is no longer the Netherlands of 1980. Letter paper and faxes have been replaced by e-mail. We've been thinking differently about information since then, too. Consensus has emerged that citizens have the right to the most transparent governance possible. The point is that the involvement of citizens is not only an ornament in a policy of clean appearance, but actually a relevant and active factor in the administration of the country. Unfortunately, an exception to this consensus is often made by the government itself, as was shown by the final report presented last year by the Elias Commission, which carried out research into ICT projects in the government. I read a quote from this report: "Two years of research and many more requests for information, the committee can only conclude that the government does not have its documentary information in order. The committee has regularly received information untimely, incomplete and, in some cases, incorrect. Departments do not have their (digital) archives in order, in some cases do not seem to care about the legally required retention periods, and it is, to say the least, striking that in some sensitive issues there is no documentation at all." More significant than the Elias Committee, we cannot, as proposers of this bill, outline how, in some cases, public authorities still think about transparency and the importance of a correct and pure information system, so that adequate control can be exercised, for example, by parliament and journalists. In the Netherlands of the 21st century there should be no room for such a regentesque administrative culture. The recent incident surrounding the receipt of payment to drug lord Cees H., which led to the fall of two regiments, is also a poignant example of what situation poor government archiving can lead to. In order to force the government to participate in a new, open information society, my former colleague Mariko Peters submitted the initiative bill to regulate this renewal of the Public Administration Act. I would like to thank her and all the staff and experts involved from this place for the hard work they have put into this bill. I was allowed to take over the torch from her and D66 has now become co-subscribe to the bill that is now before us, the Open Government Act. In December 2013, the bill was amended after consultation with the government and in December 2014 the Chamber provided its input in first term. I would like to thank former D66 chamber member Gerard Schouw, who was still in trade-K at the time, for the pleasant cooperation we had. Thank you, Gerard! I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u3	I would point out that Mr Schouw is present in the Chair and can follow the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u4	Fortunately, after his resignation, Steven van Weyenberg was prepared to defend this law with me and the championship team for the open government is complete again. This law has been drafted with great care and has been amended on several points in response to the advice of the Council of State and of a number of highly competent WOB experts. There has also been constructive and pleasant cooperation and coordination between the proposers and the ministry in the drafting of this law, for which I would like to thank the Minister. I would also like to thank him for holding up his own amendment in favour of this bill. I have every confidence that he too will be able to look back on this process when there is a new law dealing with the abuse of the penalty payment system in coherence and balance. It is the ideal of Mr Van Weyenberg and myself that we in the Netherlands are working towards a rule of law in which government and citizens live on a more equal footing, as much as possible on the basis of mutual trust. Improving the information position of citizens is, in our view, crucial in our way of achieving that ideal. That is why we propose to change the Public Administration Act. We want to extend the scope, we want more active disclosure of information by governments, we want to address abuse of the WOB in appropriate coherence and we want the government to be able to rely on exceptions only if this is really necessary for, for example, national security or the privacy of data subjects. We also want an information Commissioner who, as a watchdog, can monitor a proper transparency regime in administrative bodies. Of course, and rightly so, this leads to many questions from companies, advisory colleges and political groups in the Lower House. We have listened carefully to this, because we have now sent a third letter of amendment to the Chamber, in which we respond to the criticisms voiced by many political groups. There has been a lot of discussion on this. I would therefore like to thank all the spokesmen of the political groups very much for their open and constructive attitude and their valuable thinking, which means that this proposal is now as it is. Unfortunately, this means that a lot of time has passed and we are only now in this Chamber to answer the questions that the Chamber has already asked a considerable time ago. We have divided the questions from the Chamber into the following blocks. I'll walk them by, because it's a lot of subjects. The main lines, scope, the information register, the active disclosure obligation, abuse, the grounds for exception, re-use, the Information Commissioner and the financial aspects of the legislative proposal. I will deal with the first five blocks and Mr Van Weyenberg will then reply on the last four blocks. I will start with the block on the main lines of the bill. We have had a lot of questions in the first term of the Chamber, but there was also an open attitude to our legislative proposal in the contributions of many colleagues. Several parties have indicated their willingness to join us in fighting for a more transparent government. As proposers, we appreciate that very much. We would therefore like to try to answer the critical questions raised by my fellow Members as well and as precisely as possible in the hope of removing as much of their concerns as possible with regard to this legislative proposal. In the first term, the VVD Group was represented by Mr Taverne. He asked how the applicants assessed Actal's letter on administrative burdens under the Open Government Act. We have taken note of Actal's letter, but read in it many assumptions and statements that are not accompanied by factual evidence. Actal makes three comments, which I am passing by on a point-by-point basis. First, according to Actal, the possibility that parts of the semi-public sector and grant recipients may be designated by General Measure of Management may lead to increased burdens on the legal entities concerned. However, it is only those parts where the current legislation does not sufficiently lead to the availability of accountability information from the subsidised institutions. For example, if Minister Schippers considered that the price agreements of hospitals with health insurers should be available, so that the public could include that type of data in his choice, this type of data could be identified in a General Measure of Governance, so that the minister could put it on the Internet. Other data do not need to be collected. It is therefore a matter of data that the hospitals already have in this case. Secondly, according to Actal, the expiry of the absolute exceptions leads to higher regulatory pressure. However, there is only one absolute exception, namely for company data. This basis is not absolute in the current Public Administration Act when it comes to environmental data. This is replaced by a relative exception, covering not only confidential business and manufacturing data provided to the public authorities, but also other information sensitive to competition. The exception therefore has a wider scope than the provision in Actal's Public Administration Act. Contrary to Actal's view, companies will not have to prove the disproportionate disadvantage, but only make it plausible. Moreover, the Court of Justice does not consider that the Open Government Act leads to additional taxation on the part of the judiciary. As far as we are concerned, this reflects Actal's fear that the grounds for exception will lead to greater recourse to the courts. Thirdly, Actal believes that the register of information leads to additional regulatory pressure, since the institutions responsible for public affairs have to take account of the disclosure of their documents. We cannot follow that reasoning, because under the Public Administration Act such a responsibility is in principle already publicly available. It is a misunderstanding that was also heard in the first term of the Chamber, namely that all the information in that register is public. However, the register is only intended to indicate what information is available. Only information which has been decided to be public shall be directly accessible by means of the register. In case of information that is not publicly available, an interested party may look up whether that information is available and, if so, request it with a request. A register therefore leads to fewer requests because the already public documents are simply clickable and because the applicant no longer needs to ask for "everything related to subject x'.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Furthermore, we believe that the register will lead to long-term savings, because this will make the information system in the public sector better organized than it is at present. The fact that this information system is often out of order, as the Elias Committee pointed out, costs unnecessary money and hours for officials. In short, the proposers do not recognize themselves in Actal's conclusion that there are signs that the Open Government Act leads to more regulatory burden and more administrative burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u5	If I listen to Mrs Voortman like that and hear her say how she weighs Actal's criticism, I cannot quite escape the impression that she is dealing with it lightly. That's what she called hospitals, but there are, of course, a lot of other semi-public institutions, but also private institutions, which are heavily subsidised by the government. It suggested that these organizations could easily set up their internal information services in such a way that they could already divide out at the front exactly which piece might be public and wobbled, or later wooded, and which piece is the own business sensitive information that is not public. In practice, this can lead to a kind of double accounting of an organisation; a dual information system. How does Mrs. Voortman see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u6	I'm not so afraid of that. I went through the points of Actal point-by-point because it is a matter of where there is insufficient availability of accountability information in the current legislation. Where this is already sufficiently present, nothing else needs to be recorded. So I'm not so worried about that. With regard to the grounds for refusal, there is only one that goes from absolute to relative. The changes are therefore not as great as Actal fears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u7	I really don't see the latter. Mrs Voortman's and Mr Van Weyenberg's proposals also state that it is no longer a question of damaging information but of damaging it. That is quite a change, quite apart from the fact that there is a great deal of new case law about this. Why the shift from "damage" to "serious damage"? Isn't "damage" enough? Is not "damage" such that a private organisation should be able to say: listen, this affects us so that we cannot make this public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u8	The law offers an opportunity to extend the scope to semi-public organisations, so not to private organisations anyway. We're only talking about semi-public organizations. Mr Van Weyenberg will talk more about the damage assessment later, but as far as we are concerned this is mainly about motivating it well: explain what damage this means, make that plausible! So not prove it, but make it plausible! So it's not about private organizations. It is mainly about motivating the reason why the importance of the damage should outweigh the importance of public access, the social interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u9	I propose that we do the interruptions in two tonight, but Mr Veldman may ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u10	Then let me ask a third, short question. If Mrs Voortman is able to put Actal's criticism into perspective in such a way that it is actually not all that bad, are the authors prepared to ask Actal to investigate what this means for the regulatory burden, the burden, for this type of organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u11	Actal has responded and we have responded to it again. We could continue to do so, but that will of course lead to delays when I have heard the question from the Chamber, from various political groups, including Mr Veldman, in particular to make haste with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u12	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u13	The CDA asked Mrs Keijzer in the first term, but now Mr Amhaouch is sitting here or the authors share the view that openness cannot be an end in itself. The initiators share the view that public access is not an end in itself, but they believe that public access is a basic prerequisite for good governance. The idea behind this bill is therefore to guarantee that basic condition better in practice than is currently the case. Publicity of administration is an instrument for achieving a democracy in which citizens have a stronger position vis-à-vis government. Mrs Keijzer and Mrs Oosenbrug of the Labour Party have initially asked whether a new law is the most appropriate way to achieve the desired cultural change towards transparency. The CDA and the Labour Party are right that you cannot prescribe a change of culture by law. By law, however, you can introduce the tools that can drive a culture change. The main tools for this in the Open Government Act are the explicit obligation to actively disclose certain information and the Information Commissioner. To the extent that civil servants and administrative bodies would put the heels in the sand, as the PvdA pointed out, the long-term external incentive of an information commissioner or of an explicit legal obligation to actively disclose information, in an accessible register, will eventually lead to the internalisation of the standard of public access. At that time, we are talking about the highly desirable cultural change. An evaluation of the Public Administration Act by the University of Tilburg in 2004 shows that too much information is not actively disclosed under the current law. The evaluation also shows that there is mutual distrust between administrative bodies and applicants. Also, abuse of the Public Administration Act occurs by linking it with the Penalty and Appeal Act in case of failure to decide in time. The impression of groups of applicants is too often that there are excessive and unjustified recourse to exceptions by administrative bodies. It is also unclear for citizens what information they can obtain from the government. These problems are largely resolved by this legislative proposal, so that the cultural change also desired by the PvdA and CDA groups can be fully or partially realised in the eyes of the proposers. It is worth mentioning that there has been a very long talk about updating and improving the WOB. Directly after the adoption of the law in 1980, after an assessment of the law in 1983 by the Biesheuvel Committee, it appeared that it could be better done, for example by broadening its scope. In the meantime, so many things have been added that we believe that an entirely new law would be the best instrument for taking a big step forward. That is why we have proposed a new law here. The CDA Group has asked whether we can clarify what measures governments should take to comply with the Open Government Act. She asked us to include the recommendations of the Temporary Committee on ICT. There are two major changes that each administrative body must make. The first is that a procedure should be designed to actively put the information referred to in Article 3.3 of the Open Government Act on the Internet. For some information, this is already the case, for example in the case of legislation and regulations. This procedure should be set up in the Official Journal six months after the publication of this law. Although time and money need to be spent on this, it is already the case that public authorities have to deal with WOB requests. If information is already public, a simple reference to the public information can be sufficient. This in turn leads to cost savings, because there are fewer WOB requests that need to be dealt with. The other major obligation is the construction of the information register. The implementation of that obligation was left to the government in the legislative proposal. It should consider when the various administrative bodies are ready. Of course, we do not want to impose additional costs on the various administrative bodies. The next regular renewal of the ICT system of an administrative body will require the introduction of an information register. It is precisely for this reason that a long implementation period has been set, so that this adjustment can be included in ongoing ICT renewals and costs reduced to a minimum. In our view, this also responds to the recommendations of the Temporary Committee on ICT, because this does not mean setting up a new ICT system. The system can be rolled out slowly, with space for trial and error. In the annual reports, however, bodies will have to report on progress. This concludes the first block, the main lines, but not after I have mentioned that we have deleted the criminalisation of the removal of documents from the functioning of the Open Government Act in former Article 8.1. To this end, we have decided, because this criminalisation is, on second thought, too crude an instrument that will not necessarily bring cultural change closer. We must also be confident that public servants want to do well. On second thought, this sentence is not part of that, so that is why we have deleted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u14	With the last addition I am very pleased, because we had quite a bit of criticism. The PvdA doesn't like the information Commissioner anyway, we've been clear about that, because there's a big price tag on it, I'm not even going to narrow it down. You notice that there is also a path being paved at the information register and that it is said: do it if there is enough budget. My question is whether there is a deadline. Can we make an appointment about that? As an ex-ICT guy, I know you can put that out for a long time. We do not want the information commissioner, but we want the information register. I think, if we want to do this, there's gonna have to be some pressure somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u15	This is a bit tricky, isn't it? At first we had something like 'you just have to say right away that the register should be there on that date'. We have, of course, also read the report by the Elias Committee, which shows that you do not have to introduce an ICT system. That is why we have said that we need to go a little further with the investments already being made by bodies, but at the same time, of course, we do not want this to be postponed. Maybe we can talk about that. Mrs Oosenbrug may be able to indicate what she is thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u16	On the contrary, I do not want us to spend a great deal of money on an information Commissioner, because my group does not feel that it is the solution at the moment. There is, however, a hand-out in this. I would therefore like to think very carefully about this: how long will we be able to release a beautiful open source project in any case and over what period of time do you write down systems? I think we can work that out. I'm gonna think about that. In second term, I think I'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u17	I share Mrs Oosenbrug's passion over open source. I think it is good to see how we can find something workable, so that things are not pushed too long and we are not too unreasonable about the speed at which things are to be realized.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u18	I have two questions. I hope that's okay, Mr. Chairman. My first question concerns the latter. Is it a good suggestion to allow parts of the government to experiment with the information register before? That's my first question. So that already affects a bit of the input of the PvdA group. My second question concerns Mrs Voortman's answer to Mr Veldman's question. Mrs Voortman said that this law does not affect private interests, but if a company shares information with the government, it obviously affects a private interest. This may be commercially sensitive information which is ultimately made public through the public authorities. So isn't there a sensitive point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u19	I'm gonna go through the information register first. I think it's an interesting variant. I can't see the consequences for a moment, but you can imagine, for example, I think out loud that two ministries will introduce a register in a much shorter period. The rest will take this into account in the ICT option. That, I believe, is what Mr Segers is thinking. I'm open to that. I cannot yet see directly what the consequences are, but I do find this interesting and perhaps Mrs Oosenbrug will agree with me. Let us look together at what is possible. Then I come to the second point. This is, of course, a matter with an important social interest. When it comes to information in the interest of public access, we can imagine that you will make that assessment, taking into account all those grounds for refusal, such as business manufacturing data, privacy and state security. I don't have to walk them all by; that block is still on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u20	I'm gonna go on to the second point. That's where I get the word "serious." Mr Van Weyenberg will go into this further, but I will start because this has already been addressed in the reply. It may be that the word "serious" for the word "damage" distorts the balance of interests. I agree with the authors that you have to weigh those interests, but isn't the word "serious" such an increase that the ratio is distorted a little? It can then happen that it does harm the commercial interests of a company. It's not serious damage, but it's damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u21	Yes, but these are matters which, if they do not become public, also harm an interest, namely the importance of public access. That is why we believe that it really should be well motivated. We believe that the addition of the word'serious' could lead to a better indication by the public authorities of why they believe that something should not be made public. So I am not saying that the information of a company which is based on a government must by definition be made public, but I do say: explain explicitly why not. For us, it keeps coming back to us: public access, unless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u22	It's a good thing Mrs. Voortman shares that. Mrs Keijzer said this at the time: information or publicity is not an end in itself, but a means of providing for the democratic rule of law. We have the WOB, which arranges for the government to provide active information. That's what it says today. Even the Municipal Law states, for example in Article 60, that information must be actively shared from lectures, councils and the like. Does Mrs Voortman intend to achieve the cultural change we have been talking about by means of a new law which will extend the scope both horizontally and vertically? The CDA considers that this is currently being dealt with disproportionately. Mrs. Voortman wants to bet on two horses at the same time. How does she see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u23	That is indeed the case. Indeed, I often make a point of openness with various colleagues in Mr Amhaouch's group. I did that last week in the area of care, together with Mrs Keijzer. We believe that if you do not add instruments, there will be no change in culture. You need some tools to achieve that cultural change. We also see that in all kinds of debates, for example on hospitals or corporations, we are often told in Chambers that we want to be more open about this. That is what we would like to take with us. The Biesheuvel Committee recommended this more than 30 years ago. We could have chosen to do one thing, but precisely because there has been discontent in society for so long, for over 30 years, we really want to do it right for once. That is why we want to use a number of instruments that really bring about public access, and we want to make the law wider immediately. That is the choice the proposers make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u24	Do you think that you will be successful with this and that you will not take unbridgeable risks? You yourself quoted the Elias report, which states that the documentation and information provision today, a year or two years ago at the time of the report, already score a moderate enough or insufficient score. You want to put a big shovel on top of that by increasing the scope. Should we not first take care of the current information and documentation systems of the public authorities? I was in Alphen aan den Rijn with Mrs Oosenbrug the other day. Municipalities are already struggling today with the question of how they can step by step bring information to a higher level. Couldn't you choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u25	If you want to bring that information to a higher level, you need to see how you can do it. If we just tell governments to do that now, it won't happen. You're gonna have to put in a drug that works. We believe that this register is an important means of doing so. If you have a register in which you have to put which pieces there are, your own information management is already better in order. If I have a pile of paper in front of me and it is all mixed up, I can put it back in order with monks' work. But if a collection of digital documents is not in order properly, you can hardly arrange them properly with any possibility. I think that register is a very important means of putting the information system in order, which the Elias Committee rightly said is not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u26	According to Mrs Voortman, how much scope is that? How does she see it? She used the example of the hospitals. "Semi audience" is a very wide range. How far does it go according to the proposers? Should this include the Netherlands Bank, the Authority for the Financial Markets and the public service broadcasters? Where is the border for Mrs Voortman, even after a possible AMvB? You can also question the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u27	This is determined by the government, which may decide at AMvB to place certain parts of the semi-public sector there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u28	That's a good one. Mrs. Voortman is filing a bill to change a number of things. It would thus lay down in the law that the scope should be extended. I assume that she has an idea of how broad it should be and that she thinks that the examples I have just mentioned should also be included. I think it's a little too easy to leave that to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u29	I'm deliberately choosing to do that. We had put something like this in an earlier law, but then certain organizations wondered if we should do it this way. With this law, we want to create a hook for the government, so the possibility of making certain information, which is not now public but in the opinion of the government should be public, available to AMvB. Precisely because that has to be settled at AMvB, I do not think it appropriate to say now what should be covered; otherwise I would have put it in the law immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u30	If Mr Veldman so wishes, we can discuss this with the Minister later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u31	I have now come to the block on the scope, so perhaps Mr Veldman can come back to it later. A number of groups have expressed their concern about this. These concerns are understandable, but we think we can at least partially remove them. The Open Government Act is less radical in extending its scope than some colleagues seemed afraid of. Almost all political groups asked for the position of the General Court in the Open Government Act in the first term of the Chamber. We have been asked to respond to the letter sent by the Court of Auditors on this matter. We have also been asked whether we would be willing to amend the Open Government Act accordingly. Let it be borne in mind that we, as proposers, have no intention of making the important work of the Court of Auditors any more difficult and that we have listened carefully to this signal in the Chamber. We have entered into consultation with the Court of Auditors and have formulated an amendment. In its letter of 23 June 2015, the Court of Auditors indicated that it considered that this arrangement would respond to the earlier objection raised by it. In doing so, the Court makes a number of proposals for clarification concerning the articles and the explanatory notes. These text proposals were all included in the third letter of amendment. Moreover, I would like to say that the General Court is also really a model in terms of transparency and open data. When the General Court conducts an investigation, all kinds of underlying information is also actively disclosed afterwards. Several other organisations could take this as an example. In addition, the CDA, the VVD and the ChristenUnion have asked which semi-public institutions exactly fall within the scope of the Open Government Act, which conditions are attached to it and whether, for example, there is a suspension procedure in the General Measure of Governance whereby semi-public institutions can be brought within the scope. It was also asked what information these semi-public institutions would have to disclose. The applicants have chosen to deposit with the government the decision which branches of the semi-public sector will be covered by the Open Government Act. It would therefore not be appropriate for us to provide a ready-made wish list, because we might as well have put it in the law itself. In general, however, I would like to point out that the authors consider it important that the scope of the Open Government Act also extends to parts of the semi-public sector. We consider this important because semi-public organisations are financed in whole or in part by taxpayers' money and carry out public tasks. In the view of the proposers, this also entails an obligation to respect the same openness as is expected of the public authorities in carrying out tasks financed by taxpayers' money. In this way, we will also avoid circumventing the obligation to increase transparency by outsource public authority to semi-public organisations. We do, however, understand the wish of Mr Segers of the Christian Union, among others, to keep a grip as a Chamber on which semi-public bodies are added to General Measure of Governance. Therefore, in the third letter of amendment, we have established a preliminary procedure for this General Measure of Management. With regard to the information that semi-public organisations that are designated have to unlock, I note the following. Organisations only need to disclose the categories of information provided for in the Open Government Act insofar as they carry out tasks with public funding. Moreover, the public body that provided the grant is responsible for providing the information. Thus designated semi-public organisations cannot be directly addressed on the basis of the Open Government Act. If certain bodies are designated by General Measure of Management, this does not mean that a separate WOB official would have to be recruited from those bodies. In particular, Mr Taverne of the VVD asked for the comment of the Council of State on the alleged fundamental breach in the existing relationship between the public and private sector chosen by this bill. Mr Taverne's comment on the draft law submitted to the Council for its opinion was taken into consideration by the Council of State. The Open Government Act directly applied to the entire semi-public sector. We have taken the opinion of the Council of State very seriously and amended it. The starting situation of the Open Government Act is that it does not include semi-public organisations, but that they can be added if the government and the Chamber so wish by means of the pending procedure at the request of Mr Segers. Moreover, the assertion that this is taking place in the private sector is also incorrect, as semi-public organisations partially carry out public tasks. After all, we do not call them semi audience for nothing. As mentioned above, only the public part of their tasks could possibly be brought under the scope of the Open Government Act. On the basis of this legislative proposal, it is therefore impossible to bring private activities of semi-public organisations within the scope. If a consultancy firm carries out an investigation at the expense of the government, it does not then need to disclose information about investigations it carries out for private parties. That makes sense. The D66 Group also asked whether broadcasting associations would be covered by the Open Government Act. The broadcasting associations will not be covered by the Open Government Act if the law is passed, but it is theoretically possible that the broadcasting associations will eventually be designated by the General Measure of Governance to be covered by the Open Government Act as the broadcasting associations carry out tasks that are publicly funded. In that case, the Secretary of State for OCW is the person to whom the Woo requests should be addressed, as he is ultimately responsible as a grantor under this law. This is only justified if the 2008 Media Act does not provide sufficient basis for the provision of information to the State Secretary. I would like to conclude with the block on scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u32	The criticism of the Council of State was quite considerable, because it referred to a fundamental break between public and private. This is now being thrown into a pile, with private companies suddenly being forced to open up. It is almost a bit semantic, but I think that Mrs Voortman is saying a little too easily: on the basis of that advice, we have taken that out of the law; we have not mentioned all the organisations that might be covered, but we have made a small hook, which will allow the government and the Chamber to bring a number of semi-public institutions under the law at a later date. So it is not in the legal text, but it comes under the law via an AMvB. That seems to me to be a little short-sighted. What does Mrs Voortman expect for the opinion of the Council of State if we ask that again? Would the Council of State be satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u33	There's no break between private and public, because we're only talking about semi-public here. First of all, we are not talking about private institutions here. Secondly, we do not say in this law which semi-public organisations are covered. That happens at a time when we are all here and in front of the cabinet. There is currently no question of semi-public organisations being included. That will only happen if the government and then we in the Chamber explicitly choose to do so. In fact, this is a discussion that we often have about General Management Measures. This way you can do it right, without having to put it right in the law. We have done this precisely as a result of the introduction of political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u34	I am very curious to know what the Council of State thinks about this. I would almost like to ask the authors, similar to what I just asked Actal, if they are prepared to seek further advice from the Council of State on this initiative proposal, which has now been amended by a third letter of amendment. I have a second question. Mrs Voortman now suggests that the law has been amended in such a way that there is actually no problem anymore. After all, there is no question of extending the scope, because it is not in the law. However, she does make that hook in the law to bring it in at a later point via an AMvB. Then it'll be a bit of a semantic discussion whether it's in the law or not. It is not in the law, but she does intend it, without wanting to indicate how broad that scope is. Where does she see the beginning and where does she see the end? I do like it when the proposers indicate what they think should end up in such an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u35	Firstly, we are not saying at all that the scope of the law is not being extended. It will be extended, for example for the Lower House. But as far as the semi-public sector is concerned, we say: you don't have to record it either, precisely because you can discuss what is and what is not, and because semi-public bodies themselves make information public. After all, you want to give semi-public bodies the room to be transparent in this. That's why we say don't do that in here. I repeat, although I fear that we will end up in a circle here, that this is something on which the debate must take place and for which the government can make a proposal per AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u36	I have a question about scope, but not about semi-public or private, because much has already been said about it. I am referring to the scope in a different sense. Take the municipalities, for example. How far do the initiators want to go in making available information available in the town hall?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u37	We want municipalities to keep a register. Next, the criteria we have laid down in the law and the grounds for refusal laid down in the Open Government Act will apply. Moreover, there are already grounds for refusal in the current Public Administration Act. This is a change that will also be noticed by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u38	Municipalities receive between 6,000 and 8,000 WOB requests per year. If you share that by the approximately 400 municipalities, you will receive an average of 25 WOB requests per municipality per year. Does the new law include, for example, the reports of conversations between sports club presidents and the sports official? Should they also be included in the register? Are the reports of all these conversations going public? We then get an explosion of public information. The question is whether everyone is waiting for that. Can you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u39	The information that is actively disclosed is there. The organ already has that information within its walls. This leads to fewer WOB requests being made. I expect the high number of WOB requests to be reduced by this law. Can you explain your example?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u40	Every day there are conversations with representatives of associations, of clubs. We're a participatory society. There's a lot of talk with the city. Is your intention to make all these reports actively available through the register? Are the officials gonna put time and energy in it to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u41	It's about reports that are already there. All we're asking for is to put it in a register so that people know that the information is there. We're not asking for additional information. We only ask that this be entered in the register. Then there is a test to be carried out. We do not know what such a report says. If we are talking about a point on which there is a lot to discuss with officials and where there is strategic advice and such, then I can imagine that the rejection principle applies to a large part of personal policy views to this report. It depends on what piece it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u42	Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u43	I call Mr Segers. We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u44	Mrs Voortman states that the Chamber falls within the scope of the law. I need more information on that. Groups can negotiate outside the regular cabinet formations, for example a spring agreement. Should all the information that is shared there be made public? That's my first question. I had a second question, but I will ask it in a moment because it has slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u45	Then we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u46	We're gonna talk about the cabinet formation. The information exchanged between political groups is not included in the register anyway. We've also discussed this law on a number of occasions. With that, I will not reveal a great secret. That information does not need to be made public. That is consultation between political groups, and that is something else. As far as the Chamber is concerned, a great deal is being made public. The information at the Chamber needs to be looked at about the grounds for refusal. But a lot is already being made public. The report of this debate will be public within a few hours or at least tomorrow. The information from a special committee will not become public until the investigation has been completed. That might be something you're specifically looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u47	In negotiations, finance may be asked to pass on scenarios. Finance can be wobbled. It could be politically sensitive information. You can have certain scenarios investigated, when you are not inclined to choose them. If that becomes public, the negotiations could be very frustrated. Now I know my second question. We have just had the Schouten Committee. That was a very sensitive investigation of the Chamber. We've been asked to make all the reports public. We voted on this in the Chamber. We have said that we are not going to do so because it affects criminal law. My question is therefore: can a WOB request be made there, is that information that can be made public? Those are my two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u48	The first question concerns the calculation of scenarios. My answer to that is: not at the moment when the formation is still playing. As soon as the formation is completed, it is possible. We would also like to know what information ministers are getting from their officials. I remember being angry with a colleague of Mr Segers' group, Mrs Dik-Faber, because all sorts of scenarios about what to do with the personal budget were not made public. If the Chamber had had that information, perhaps we would have looked at it differently. In our view, the factual information can be made public. In this case, it is also about information that lies with the Ministry. The second point is difficult because it was a very special committee. By the way, that committee worked on the basis of a 1813 law, which is now being revised. It may be that there will be changes in everything, so that should be for my benefit. That's where you're gonna get to the rejection grounds. You're talking about tracking, personal data and state security. All these aspects are dealt with in this particular dossier. It was a special committee and these are all data that will not be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u49	The law was from 1855.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u50	1855, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u51	In 1813 we weren't there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u52	It was 1855.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u53	I still have a few questions about public access and the House of Representatives. I wonder if there will be a separate block on personal policy ideas, because I also have a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u54	There's a separate block about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u55	Then I'll keep that question for a while. As far as the House of Representatives is concerned, I wonder how far it goes, what the proposers want. For example, exchange of information between you and the officials of the department. Is that information that needs to be made public?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u56	This is about information from a political group and is therefore not information that should be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u57	I do not know if that information is from a group. You are not here as a member of a political group, but as the author of a legislative proposal, you have undoubtedly received official assistance. Is that kind of information public? Let me add another example, namely the exchange of information between all kinds of spokesmen of the Chamber with political assistants from ministers and State Secretary. Is that kind of information exchange gonna be public, can that be wobbled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u58	I do not think that this kind of information can be wobbled, but I would like to check that if I can help Mr Veldman with that. I come now to the third block, about the information register. The Government Act also creates an electronic register, a register in which government documents become publicly available. Mr Sjoerdsma asked, on behalf of the groups of D66 and GroenLinks, whether it was really necessary to wait five years for the entry into force, as the initiators had previously foreseen. The initiators believe that a register cannot be realized in the short term by all administrative bodies. Such a register should be integrated into the administrative body's information system. Many administrative bodies already have a post-registration system, which stores incoming documents and allows new documents to be created and handled internally. Such systems need to be adapted so that a register accessible via the Internet is also attached to them. It will then be possible to unlock documents that have been made public, but the register will only show the existence of documents that have not yet been made public. All these functions will have to be integrated into the administrative body's information system. For example, an encoding will have to be added per document if the document is public. Such investments are often cheaper when they are made when purchasing a new system than when they are built into an existing system. Earlier introduction of a register leads to investment in a new document information system for administrative bodies that do not yet have a suitable system, while the old one is not yet in need of replacement. This leads to additional costs which the proposers would like to avoid. It seems to the initiators a good idea that administrative bodies should start with this as soon as possible, anticipating the entry into force of this part of the law. Therefore, all administrative bodies should be accountable in their annual reports on progress on this issue. The CDA asked whether a complaint letter from a citizen should be entered in a register as a document received for consideration, and whether the applicants already have a concept of a General Management Measure for the further completion of the register. The initiators have not prepared a concept of a General Measure of Governance. The preparation of AMvBs is a task of the government. Of course, we have some ideas about it. More generally, I can say the following. This General Administrative Measure may lay down detailed rules on the entry of documents in a register. The list of documents which do not need to be included should be strengthened. However, the number of documents to be included can also be increased. For example, further rules may be laid down for cases where e-mails should be included. In doing so, the initiators rely on the wisdom and progressive insight of the government in order to achieve practical feasibility and implementation. The construction with the AMvB also ensures that the law can grow along with the spirit of time and technological developments. A complaint letter should, in principle, be entered in the register, although in certain circumstances the complainant's identity should not appear in the register. The General Administrative Measure under Article 8.7 is not a mandatory AMvB, but offers the possibility to provide further instructions on the implementation of the law. Article 14 of the Public Administration Act also contains a provision with the same objective. I am referring here to the possibility of quickly finding a solution with an AMvB in the event of a lack of clarity, in order to avoid having to change the whole law in such a case. Such a provision is thus already contained in the current Public Administration Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u59	I have two questions. I have just lost Mrs Voortman when she talks about the information register. Is she saying that the law should go into effect, but that the registers should be there in five years? Is it a matter of the chicken and the egg, or of the egg and the chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u60	We are indeed saying that a decision must be taken by the Royal Decree to introduce the register of information. That's when organs have to have the register. However, I am aware that we have just had the debate with Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Segers. It discussed whether we could examine whether there might be other variants. You could decide that a number of organs will make cases public via a pilot in a much shorter period of time. The proposal now before us states that by Royal Decree the information register should be available in five years' time. However, I am open to what the Chamber still brings in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u61	Are we going to implement the law in five years' time, because the whole country will have proper registers of information? Or do the proposers want to start with this in the form of pilots and do they want to be done with this in five years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u62	No, five years from now, we're going to have to start with the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u63	Okay, but let's go through this and call it deadlines. After these five years, therefore, there will be a three-year evaluation period. It's in the pieces. Then the law will be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u64	The review of the law is in three years' time. With regard to the entry into force of the register, we have now said that in five years' time it will be possible to decide that we will begin to enter into force. This part of the law may then enter into force by Royal Decree. Then there's got to be a register. We do not therefore decide that this register should be available already, but that it should be introduced by Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u65	Okay. I have another question. Are there any municipalities that already have an information register and could support the new law? Are there such leaders among the municipalities, where the explosive growth of the provision of information is already visible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u66	I am not aware of any municipalities within the Netherlands that are already doing so. There are, of course, several countries where such registers are already being used. However, I do not know whether there are any municipalities in the Netherlands that are already doing so. I see that the supporters do not know these examples either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u67	If I understand correctly, it will have to enter into force in five years' time. Of course, the creation of such an information register requires quite a lot from governments and from all kinds of other organisations. We were just talking about the semi-public organs, but it is not yet clear which ones and which ones are not covered. Such organisations will therefore need to have information available or to be able to provide that information via such an information register. The efforts that need to be made can be considerable. What is the relationship between these efforts and a number of other developments? For example, the Minister is working on the Digital Agenda 2020. We have also talked a lot about this in this Chamber last year. How does Mrs. Voortman see these things together? Or does she really see the information register as something that stands on its own?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u68	No, we see this as something that needs to be taken into account in the investment already made by public authorities in the field of information. So we are not saying: you must enter that information register pats-boom. We say: by Royal Decree it is said when to start the creation of the information register. Then you have to report on this in your annual reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u69	I have another question about that information register. I am going to chew on this question. The suggestion behind the information register is, of course, that we can find information that needs to be made public but that is not yet available, or that is there and should, for example, be available through the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act. Mrs Voortman rightly said, with a quote from the Elias Committee, that it is difficult to find information when it comes to public information. Such an information register could help in that. What is the picture of the authors of that information register? What would it eventually be? Is it, in the end, a kind of change to a system, as we can see abroad, in which you cannot ask the government for general information, but where you have to request a document? There are countries that have organized their public access in such a way that you have to state which document you want, instead of asking for a general information question and saying: deliver yourself, government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u70	One of the reasons why it is difficult for officials is that requests come in with: do me everything on this subject. In my opinion, that is what makes many civil servants suffer. I think these kinds of requests are less common the moment you have that register. Then people can say: do me this, this, this and that piece. At the moment when you're only allowed to make requests on the basis of documents, you assume that everything is there. So you have to know for sure. As long as you're not sure, it seems premature to me to say that you can only ask for documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u71	Very briefly, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u72	Very briefly. What Mrs Voortman is saying now suggests that, even if there is an information register, she is not entirely sure that everything is in it. If everything was in there, you could just ask out on the basis of documents. If I listen to that correctly, I come to the general criticism of the Council of State. It indicates that you don't change the culture of work and the reason why things aren't always findable and in order right now with a law. So it is one thing or the other: whether the information register will be in such a way that it will function and everything is in it, or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u73	Mr Veldman has a point. It should really be complete and exhausting. I am now also looking for situations where it is conceivable that something would not be in the register. If the entire register is complete anyway, it could indeed be. However, I would like to keep a small opening for situations where it is conceivable that this is not the case. There is, of course, a transitional period. That's the period you're working towards the register. Information that is already available may not yet be in the register. That is, of course, a point. Information created at the time the register is in place can be entered in the register immediately. Information on the same subject that was realized five years ago can in itself be placed retroactively in that register. That will, of course, require extra effort. Those are examples of information that I think is: okay, you're setting up the register. Maybe all that old information isn't in there yet. That information can't be said to be in there by now. So only new information is in the register from the moment you build it. That is why I do not want to say straight away that we are moving towards a system in which you can only look for documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u74	I'm starting to think of something we've come up with an ugly word for, something with information and your stomach. While I heard the applicant talking about the information register, I thought there was such a thing already. In my time as a councilman, we had the council information system, the RIS. There were a lot of documents in there. Here in the Chamber we have Parlis, which also contains a lot of documentation. We are pretending to be inventing something new, but we are actually already working that way. I notice that the fear is in old documentation that has yet to be introduced. We have passed a law on this too. Is there something in the ears? I am talking not only about the officials or the people who have to introduce all that documentation, but also about ourselves. I note, also with my colleagues, that there is a certain fear, when all this information is already there. Can we not unlock RIS and Parlis on the new information register?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u75	I'd love to have Parlis accessible to everyone. I often experience people asking me if I can send a particular piece. Then it's easy if you can say: you can find everything in Parlis. I don't know what it was like in the city council in which Mrs van Oosenbrug was sitting, but in Groningen there were council pieces in the system, and not the documents that were discussed at other levels. It is true that you have already started with such a consultative information system or with Parlis, the parliamentary information system. You can build on that. So you don't start all over again. You start with what you already have and gradually you look at how you work towards a register that contains all the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u76	We deal here with the Open Government Act. The question is to what extent you want to bring technology, today's technique, into the law. We are discussing a register here and the question of what it should look like: à la Parlis or something else. What is the major reason for including the implementation form, something the law should support?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u77	We're saying you're recording the register. Then we look at the spirit of time and technological developments. We do not put something like the technical effect into the law, for which we create an AMvB possibility, as well as with the Public Administration Act. That's where things like that can be recorded. Indeed, you do not have to lay down in the law exactly how something should be technically constructed, I totally agree with the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u78	Have you considered asking BIT for advice on the form of implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u79	The BIT is the ICT-Touring Office. Because we have opted for a gradual introduction, in which the introduction can be combined with the planned ICT renewals, we expect little problems in itself. We can, of course, ask for advice from the BIT. However, since there is a great sense of urgency regarding the entry into force of the law, I would suggest that such a BIT opinion is not awaited before accepting the bill. Precisely because we say that the register is established by Royal Decree, this can run in parallel. However, I think it is an interesting suggestion in itself. I'll be on block four, active disclosure. The CDA has asked to what extent, according to the proposers, more active disclosure leads to increased civic participation. The CDA wonders whether users of the information are not often professional users such as journalists and interest groups. The proposers consider that a constant and reliable flow of information on the activities and results of public bodies creates confidence among citizens and improves the interaction between government and citizens. The report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, Confidence in Citizens, shows that it is very important that public authorities also disclose and make accessible information that has no news value, but is directly relevant to citizens and businesses. The reactions that this produces are often also very useful for making new policies and new choices by these public bodies. It is true that the Public Administration Act is widely used by journalists and interest groups. However, as far as the initiators are concerned, this does not have a positive impact on civic participation. Even if information reaches citizens indirectly through journalists, this increases the involvement of citizens in the government. Interest groups, of course, also represent a large part of society's citizens. The CDA further challenges us to take our own legislative proposal as an example and asked whether the documents are accessible and insightful in the opinion of the authors, whether the points of discussion are clear to everyone, and whether the documents behind them are easy to find. The initiators believe that the Second and First Chambers give a good example when it comes to active disclosure. For example, this bill, including the underlying documents such as the advice of the Council of State and the letters sent by interested organisations, can be found in the second chamber.nl website. However, the proposers note that some improvements could be made on the website of the House of Representatives compared to that of the House of Representatives in the making of documents and their interrelation. At the page of the bill on firstkamer.nl you will immediately find a nice summary and a flowchart showing where the proposal is located in the legislative process. In this respect, we could learn a little from colleagues across the street. Furthermore, the CDA asked about the duty of care of an administrative body for the information provided. The CDA refers to the fact that this information must be up-to-date, accurate and comparable under the Open Government Act and asks whether it is also comprehensive, as responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of information prepared by third parties is excluded. The words "current," "accurate" and "similar" are derived from Article 2 of the Public Administration Act and therefore do not lead to an improvement in the implementation of the Open Government Act. It is true that administrative bodies have to ensure the quality of information under the Open Government Act. They have to now. The term "as much as possible" is used. Administrative bodies can only be required to fulfil the duty of care which can reasonably be required of an administrative body. The completeness of information is also included. Information must be supplied as fully as possible. This does not mean that administrative bodies should collect missing information following a request for information, but, for example, that the administrative body indicates that certain information is not available, so that the information available does not lead to the wrong conclusion. The Christian Union drew attention to the objection of the Association of Dutch Municipalities with regard to the publication period of one week. She indicated that she feared a well-naïve discussion between the Association for Dutch Municipalities and the proposers on its feasibility. She feared that if this bill was adopted, damage and shame would make us wise. The Labour Party also expressed concern about the one-week deadline. We have chosen as proposers the one-week deadline because much of the information that comes under the active disclosure obligation is relevant in the short term. For example, the House of Representatives often makes public reports of plenary sessions and voting results the following day. The applicants believe that the one-week deadline should be very feasible for documents drawn up by the administrative body itself, because work can already be carried out at the stage prior to the adoption of the document. With incoming pieces, it's more difficult. The one-week period may be extended if consultations are to be held with the applicant on disclosure, see Article 3.3 (5). However, we, as proposers, do not want a well-naïve debate either. For us, the broader purpose of and the basis for this law is paramount. That is why we have taken the criticism of the Christian Union, the Labour Party and the Association of Dutch Municipalities to heart and extended this period to two weeks in the third letter of amendment. In this way, the law provides more air and space in the event that this task is more difficult for public authorities to implement than foreseen. For the Acts, however, the proposers would like to call on all the public authorities concerned not to wait for this deadline if it can be done more quickly, because, as has already been said, a lot of information is of added value if it is made public in good time. I'll be on block five, the block about abuse. I will also deal with the decision-making period and the Law on periodic penalty payments and appeals in case of failure to decide in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u80	I will come back to making information available in good time. That information should be made available within two weeks. Will the authors treat questions from citizens and organisations equally as questions asked by journalists or do they wish to make an exception?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u81	I'd rather you just set one term. It seems to me that it is difficult to always determine who is a journalist and who is not. As far as we are concerned, this two-week period should go to a week, but we are naturally also listening to the contributions of the groups. That is why we have set the deadline for two weeks. I come to the block about abuse. The decision period in the Public Administration Act was then extended to four weeks because of the introduction of the link to the Penalty Act. Now that this link is released in the Open Government Act, the argument for the long decision period lapses. In addition, it is expected that administrative bodies will be able to handle Woo requests much more easily through the introduction of the information register, which will often be referred to for short notice. In addition, the SEO investigation into the costs and benefits for the government of amendments to the Public Administration Act shows that most of the WOB requests are already being answered within ten working days. In the police forces, 89% of the WOB requests have a workload of less than a day. Extension of the decision-making period following the introduction of the Penalty Order Act has not led to a reduction in the number of time limits, suggesting that administrative bodies have left a WED request longer since the extension of the deadline. Nothing human is strange to all of us. This is, in short, the reason why the applicants considered that a two-week period plus two-week extension was sufficient in the case of substantial requests. However, consultations with other groups on the law have shown us that this bill, with such a reduction in the deadline, could not count on a majority. That is why we, as proposers, decided to keep the deadline of four weeks in the third letter of amendment. However, the extension period continues to be reduced from four weeks to two weeks in the case of large requests, bringing the total maximum period to six weeks compared to eight weeks under the Public Administration Act. Let me be honest: this change is difficult for us. However, as proposers, we have come to the conclusion that there are still sufficient measures left with the Open Government Act to encourage openness to make wine in this area in the interests of the law. The SP first mentioned the example of the meanwhile famous Dordrecht man who costs the municipality half a million euros a year. According to Mr Van Raak, two-and-a-half officials are dealing with all the letters and requests of this man every year. He wanted to know from the petitioners whether the Open Government Act would make it possible to put aside this man's letters. The short answer to that is yes. The link with the Penalty Law, which consists of the Public Administration Act, is released in the Open Government Act. Article 4.6 of the Open Government Act refers to cases where an applicant has a motive other than obtaining information. In general, it should be assumed that anyone making a request for information naturally intends to obtain public information. This will be different only if the applicant appears to have a different purpose. For example, that other purpose could be to cause nuisance out of resentment. The Open Government Act thus creates an instrument to act against it. Mr Sjoerdsma asked, on behalf of the D66 and GroenLinks groups, whether the abolition of the penalty payment was contrary to the ultimate objective of the open government. The proposers agree with the groups of D66 and GroenLinks that the link with the Penalty Act is a stick behind the door to encourage the government to act adequately and in good time. In our view, however, the profit of dynamism generated by the coupling is so limited that its disadvantage is that it is not in balance to facilitate abuse. Apart from a periodic penalty payment, an applicant can always get his or her right from the judge. The Open Government Act chooses to shorten the decision-making period, an information register and an active disclosure obligation. In our view, this compensates well for the loss of momentum associated with the release of the Penalty Law. However, we expect the applicant to cooperate in extending that time limit if it is a request so large that it cannot be dealt with within those four weeks plus two weeks. In the event of a delay, the court will examine whether the administrative body has acted expeditiously, but also whether the applicant has sufficiently cooperated in reaching an agreement on the time limit necessary for that specific application in view of the scale of the application. Finally, the CDA Group expressed its satisfaction that the proposers abandoned the existing link of the Public Administration Act to the Penalty Act, but that the anti-abuse clause was not yet fully clear to it. She asked how the administrative board will make it clear that the applicant apparently has a different purpose from obtaining public information and whether, according to the applicants, abuse is by definition unimaginable or impossible to prove. WOB abuse by applicants also occurs. That is why the initiators choose to let go of the link with the Penalty Law. It is true that we believe that it should not be assumed too quickly that there is abuse, but that there are cases which clearly have a different purpose than to seek information. Think of the extent to which it is realistic that the requested information could be useful for the applicant or the relationship with previously made requests by the applicant. The often cited example of someone hiding a WOB request in a letter of application and then cashing the penalty payment could also be rejected on this basis, were it not that the Open Government Act also lets go of the link with the Penalty Act. In the meantime, Mrs Oosenbrug has tabled an amendment (33328, No. 21) so that, in addition to a direct action in the absence of a timely decision by an administrative body, the possibility of an appeal before the administrative body may not be decided in due time. This restores the possibility that existed before the introduction of the Penalty Order Act. The problem was that an administrative body that does not respond to an application often also does not respond to an objection to non-response. We therefore wonder whether this addition will prove effective in practice. On the other hand, we have no objection to adding this instrument, which is why we would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. That brings me to the end of this block and I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, who will answer the questions about the exceptions, the re-use, the information Commissioner and the exceptions and the financial aspects. It is my expectation that he will do so with the same flaming spirit as Mr Schouw would have given it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u82	However, Mr Amhaouch will not let you go yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u83	We're discussing a fine bill today. For me, it's even my first bill. We all know that abuse of the penalty is an urgent point that we all have to pick up, left or right. The Minister is also working on this, although his bill has been retained. The question is whether the instrument of the penalty payment is the right means, the right button on which to turn, to prevent abuse. I have recently, also in the run-up to this debate, spoken to several municipal secretaries and officials who say that they have nothing to do with this penalty payment because, on the one hand, citizens have the right to receive information on time - that is not the problem, therefore - but, on the other hand, the same penalty payment, which may be a stick behind the door for the citizen, is the means for people to abuse. The question is whether there is no other alternative to ensuring that a citizen has a stick behind the door in the context of the WOB request rather than simply letting go of the penalty payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u84	Mr Amhaouch, you must ask a question in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u85	The question is: isn't there another alternative? Is that all right, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u86	Yeah, all right!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u87	I am glad that Mr Amhaouch thinks this is a nice bill; we agree on that. Mr Amhaouch asks if there is no alternative. He should know we broke our heads about this. In the various conversations we have had with members of this Chamber, we have also considered whether we can do it in other ways than a periodic penalty payment. The tricky thing was to come to something that a large part of the Chamber says: we really have to do that. That's why we let go of the clutch. In addition, the law sees cases where an applicant has a different motive. Where, on the one hand, we remove the possibility of abusers making money on the penalty payment, on the other hand, we have included a provision for applicants with a different motive. If Mrs Oosenbrug's amendment is adopted to introduce a possibility for objection, it will create a new stick. We must, of course, look at how it works in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u88	Apart from Mrs Oosenbrug's amendment, I would like to ask whether Mrs Voortman acknowledges that a step to the courts for ordinary citizens is a major step. Citizens will not simply move them because they do not know what procedural costs they face as a WOB request has not come to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u89	Of course I recognize that. That is why I would prefer it not to be necessary, but then you come back to the debate on culture change and how you bring it about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u90	I would like to thank Mrs Voortman for her reply and give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u91	Mr. Chairman. It is always special to be able to defend an initiative law here. That is certainly the case if you can take one from a colleague who leaves the Chamber. At the same time it also feels a little bit like showing off other people's feathers. But I am very happy today to defend the initiative law which until recently was in the name of my former colleague, Gerard Schouw. I am also pleased that he can be here tonight to see how we are, hopefully, taking the initiative law a step further. Of course, I am also thinking of Mrs Mariko Peters, the original initiator of this bill, who is currently, at least physically, far away from us. It is also a pleasure to be able to defend this law together with Mrs Voortman today. I leave it to her to decide at the end of this evening how to score on the measuring bar of the passion of Schouw. In any case, I am defending this law with great conviction. This law doesn't come a day early. It is high time to bring the law on public sector information back to its proper place. Mrs Voortman said that we were ahead of this law in the Netherlands, but we have been overtaken by it. We have been overtaken by many other countries, by the opportunities that technology offers us today for public access, and we have certainly also been overtaken by a growing social belief that more openness fits in with what we can expect from public institutions today. I would also like to add my thanks to Mrs Voortman for the support from the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to thank the employees Giel van der Steenhoven and Noortje Thijssen van GroenLinks and Carsten Zwaaneveld of D66 for their indispensable support. It is, of course, also appropriate to thank Members in particular for their input in the first term. We have tried, by means of the third letter of amendment, to address the criticisms and concerns expressed, in the hope of achieving broad support for this initiative law. As Mrs Voortman said, I will use four blocks in my answer: the exceptions, the re-use, the information Commissioner and the financial aspects. Some questions have been asked about the exceptions that the Open Government Act allows. For example, Mr Taverne, then spokesperson of the VVD Group, and Mr Segers asked for the criterion of "serious damage." That was discussed earlier tonight. It concerns the "serious injury" criterion to which the relative exceptions must be assessed. They asked for this in the written report. I will try to clarify our answer tonight. In the current Public Administration Act, it is a matter of balancing the interests excluded by law, for example international relations, and the importance of the disclosure of information. That needs to be weighed. The phrase'seriously harmed' in the initiative law we are discussing today actually adds an element to it. The injury to the interest must be justified in order to be able to balance it against the importance of disclosure. As administrative bodies are already very prudent in dealing with this relative exception in the law, we are convinced that not so much is changing. They will now explain that this damage is of such magnitude in the words of the initiative law "seriously harmed', which outweighs the importance of disclosure. But if this possibility of secrecy were to be invoked too easily today, the criterion of "serious damage" would help to enforce a careful, motivated balance. It is then clear that the severity of the damage must outweigh the benefits of disclosure. In reply to Mr Segers' question, it may well be that there is damage in the weighing up of the importance of public access. That's right. In my opinion, this is already the case in the current Public Administration Act, because it also contains the relative grounds for exception. Hence the need to weigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u92	I agree with the authors that these interests need to be weighed up. That is perfectly clear. Indeed, it needs to be improved if the current law does not give sufficient encouragement to achieve that motivation. But it seems that the scale is already distorted by that predicate "serious." Before it comes to justice, you're gonna need extra interests. Well, then you'd have to put it really hard to get under those exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u93	I understand Mr Segers' concern. It's not the intention at all to skew that scale, as he says so beautifully. The aim is to make it clear, in addition to the importance of public access, that the importance of secrecy must have weight and not be understood lightly. I think this was the background to the choice of words in the law: seriously harmed. This is always weighted against the interest of disclosure. Those two will have to be weighed by the administrative body in transparency. It is in no way the intention to set the relative exception in advance to a 1-0 disadvantage. If that is Mr Segers' fear, I hope this answer will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u94	I think that we want the same thing in the end, namely that you come to a reasoned consideration and that it must be very clear that you need a good story to be covered by that "unless." The VNG also referred to the word "serious." Perhaps we can put another option in an amendment. We'll keep that open. My concern is that that scale should be distorted, while we want the same objective, namely a reasoned consideration and a thorough story with which you claim that exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u95	We are naturally waiting for Mr Segers to feel the need to table an amendment. The debate is also part of the history of the law, including this debate on interruption. Mr Segers said it very nicely in the second round of the question. It is up to the proposers not to think lightly about it, that it should be motivated. These two must be weighed against each other in equivalence. The administrative body will have to make that weighting in the end. If the interested party does not agree with this, the way forward shall also be open or, where appropriate, the court to correct it. It is not an uneven scale at the start, as Mr Segers said, but the aim of the proposers is to show that the relative grounds for exception, because that is what this is about, cannot be weighed lightly. That was the idea of the proposers. I am pleased that Mr Segers is actually pursuing the same objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u96	I just asked about it, too. The thought is nice. I think that Mr Segers is creating a beautiful picture of the crooked scale. Mr Van Weyenberg says that this is not the intention, if I listen to him carefully. Can I translate it in such a way that the authors could support such an amendment by Mr Segers, because they mean the same thing? My fear is, if the word'serious' remains, that we are going to go a long way in which there will be a whole set of case-law on what is to be termed'serious', with all the damage that this would do to business sensitive information that would have to be disclosed to non-public bodies. I do not think we should want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u97	The background to putting these words into the law is that we believe that in practice there are sometimes too few exceptions. We, as proposers, do need the addition of'serious damage'. This is a different wording than in the Public Administration Act. It does not contain the word 'damage' either, because a very different wording is used. In doing so, we would like to emphasise, by putting it into the law, that this should not be understood lightly. Of course we will wait for that amendment, as I said, but the aim we have in mind is to show that it really needs to be motivated. By saying that we are not trying to distort the balance, as Mr Segers said so beautifully, I hope that without any amendment to the law we could have removed any doubts and concerns about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u98	I have another question about the same thing. We have also discussed it before: do you change the culture of work with a law? The proposers try to make the term heavier in the hope that the way of working will adapt. My fear is that the culture of work may not be primarily adapted and that, in the end, it will become clear through case-law what extra should or should not be made public. People are going to try things, of course, because they see that there is now a different terminology. They might go a step further, because they still want some more information. That will happen and then a judge might say: it says "serious" and that is a bit heavier, so it has to be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u99	We believe that public access can still use a little support, or perhaps even a support, in the back. That is also the purpose of this law. We explicate this for a good weighing. The fact that judges can ultimately derive case law from that is the case with every law. Perhaps I will make a different weighting than Mr Veldman when I say that cultural change takes you along a number of tracks. Of course, it starts in people's minds, but with the legal framework, of course, you have an influence on how it is handled in practice. I fully agree with Mr Veldman that the better we deal with this in practice, the less the progress towards objection or even the courts will be used. Mrs Keijzer, who spoke on behalf of the CDA Group in the first term, asked for the provision of restricted information. Indeed, Articles 5.6 and 5.7 of the Open Government Act provide scope for this. It must be for compelling reasons or for historical, statistical or scientific research. There is a duty of confidentiality on the person who receives the information and the offence is punishable, I say to Mrs Keijzer. This provision can, of course, be subject to conditions in all cases. The provision will only take place if the importance of the provision to an individual outweighs the risk of e.g. leaking. If the security of the State is at stake, as Mrs Keijzer asked, I can hardly imagine that this power will actually be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u100	How am I supposed to put that into practice? Person A gets classified information. Will the other 16 million Dutch people then receive the same information under secrecy? Then what's the secret?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u101	Of course, there must be a compelling reason. I will try to give an illustration, although that is always dangerous because this is really casual. Suppose someone's family member died in a case that is highly classified and therefore not publicly communicated. I can imagine it being said that the importance of this next of kin is so great that, of course, confidentially, access to information that will not be made public for the rest of the Netherlands. If there is such a personal compelling reason, one can deviate from confidentiality. Mrs Keijzer also asked about the exception for cabinet formations following Article 5.4 of the proposal, which states that the information will not be made public until after the formation. We have chosen as proposers this special position of the national formation after Lower House elections, because the Lower House has a formal role in this. This is different with formations in the municipality or province. That is why this scheme is specifically national. This brings me to the exception with regard to company data. Mr Van Raak, Mr Segers and Mr Taverne said that they were looking for the scope of the exception for business and manufacturing data and wanted to know how the economic interest against the general interest is weighed. First of all, the initiators would like to stress that this does not happen until the company information is covered by the law at all and therefore also rests with an administrative body. There must then be sufficient scope to protect the legitimate interests of business and to weigh them against the importance of public access. For example, information on a manufacturing process or strategy does not seem appropriate to us to be revealed by the public authorities because it would serve a general public interest. Of course, such a trade-off also involves the fact that data is invested in confidence with the government. The same reasoning could be used with regard to procurement. In procurement rounds, confidential data shall not be automatically disclosed. It's something else when information is more outward-looking. For example, information on nuisance or incident data could have served a major public interest that outweighs the importance of confidentiality. In the first period, the example of energy saving was mentioned. I think that consideration of the general interest would rather lead to non-disclosure, although I think that the pendulum will turn the other way once that energy saving has been achieved as part of a government subsidy scheme and public funds have been used for it. In the case of such information, there is a public interest. Cases will have to be weighed on a case-by-case basis. With these illustrations, I hope that Mr Van Raak's question will have answered some of the examples. I'm gonna take a look at the chair for this. In this context, I should also like to point out that Article 10 (7) (b) of the Public Administration Act already contains a breach of confidentiality on this ground with regard to the provision of environmental information. This provision follows from the Aarhus Convention. This is also reflected in the Tromsø Convention and in the Euro-WOB. Perhaps it is also good to say something about the fear of VNO-NCW. We have read in a magazine that this law would open the door to terrorists. Let me honestly say that I have been more impressed with arguments. I even got a bit of a feeling that the use of this term was rather an expression of concern and of a lack of substantive argumentation. Let there be no misunderstanding: information that must be kept secret, for example on the vital infrastructure, the land interest, of course, remains secret. I think it's important to say that from this place. What can be public becomes public, but what needs to be decided remains decided. It's as simple as that. I think it's okay to take away some cold feet from time to time. I am glad that Mr Taverne has also given us the opportunity to take that concern away from here. Mr Segers specifically asked what happens after five years. It refers to Article 5.3, which states that information is made public when the information is older than five years, unless the administrative body justifies why Article 5.1, second and fourth paragraphs, and the interests referred to in Article 5.2 continue to outweigh the general interest of public disclosure despite the time-scale. I think it is right to stress that information which was confidential up to that five-year limit does not suddenly end up on the streets after five years as a sort of automation. It is not an obligation to actively disclose all information after five years, but it is an obligation to rebalance the balance of interests once again after those five years. This is a new consideration of whether the importance of active disclosure does not outweigh the importance of confidentiality. That remains a weighting for the governing body. I believe that it will appear regularly that this period has been long enough, which means that the confidentiality value has fallen. But of course you don't have to. It is perhaps good to report here that even the AIVD now has a five-year notification obligation under the Intelligence and Security Services Act on the use of special powers such as eavesdropping, unless there are still current interests. With time the current state of the data is decreasing, and in the long-term general interest of public access, the balance is getting closer and closer to the turning point of public access unless, of course, there are reasons not to do so, for example, an ongoing investigation into someone who is still being bugged. Then it does not seem to me to be interrupting to reveal that something like this was done five years ago. This brings me to the end of my block on the manufacturing data.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u102	If I listen to Mr Van Weyenberg like that, we really don't have to worry. This would mean that all the speakers who were also present at the round table, besides representatives of VNO-NCW, would have nothing to worry about. I think the truth is always somewhere in the middle. It is, I think, not quite as Mr Van Weyenberg describes it. When, for example, companies use innovation subsidies, i.e. public funds, do they have the absolute guarantee that all kinds of business sensitive information, all kinds of manufacturing data, will not be on the streets? That's their fear. I understand that fear. In the case of grant conditions, there is already a relationship of accountability. Companies already give a lot of information to the government, either publicly or confidentially. Can they count on this confidentiality, including this initiative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u103	It's not an absolute ground. There was no such thing when it came to environmental data. If the subsidy to which Mr Veldman refers was for energy saving, then I think this was also a relative ground. I haven't argued that anything changes. However, I have argued that there will always be a very careful consideration and that I think that the fear that we are opening the gate to terrorists is really misplaced and that we are afraid of cold water. There will always have to be weighted. Let me go back to the specific example. If you have really developed an innovative product as a Willie Root, you apply for a patent on it. The essence of a patent is, by the way, openness, but with the right not to infringe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u104	I hear Mr Van Weyenberg saying that he really wants to change something. So he can't take away the fear. The consequence for companies may be that they do indeed run the risk that business-sensitive information such as certain manufacturing data will simply be on the streets. Is he not afraid that these companies might say: then we will no longer do business with the government? They may also not want to make use of all kinds of innovation subsidies. Then perhaps they do not want to do any more of the other partnerships they have entered into with that government. Could that not also mean that in the end this might be at the expense of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u105	In all honesty, I now have a little doubt whether Mr Veldman will not listen or whether he is deliberately trying to put words in my mouth. I didn't argue that nothing changes. The picture is a bit that we take for granted here unthoughtful chunks. That's not the issue at all. I'm trying to take away fears that I find unfounded. It is not the case that everything becomes different or that everything becomes public. There must always be a general interest. What is the general interest? If a company does a new process innovation within the company, I don't see a general interest in making that public. I do see such a general interest as I have mentioned the example earlier when it comes to data on incidents, for example. Then disclosure may be in the public interest, as well as in the case of energy saving which is the resultant of public subsidies. By the way, I know Mr Veldman's party as the party that always wants to be able to look very closely at the effectiveness of taxpayers' money spent. This brings me to the exception with regard to the personal data. An open government does not mean that the government will simply disclose all the information it has on people. The Public Government Act therefore has an absolute exception for special personal data as referred to in the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as a relative ground, the respect of privacy, unless the person concerned agrees to disclosure. Mr Segers read the legal provision as if the governing body always had to go first to the person concerned and not first to make its own assessment. I can follow that line of thought, but the intention is different. First, the administrative body itself must come to a decision. If that consideration is disclosure, the administrative organ must then pass on to the person concerned in order to find out any reservations. These concerns are then taken into account in the final balance of interests by the administrative body. The outcome may still be disclosure, but it doesn't have to be. If the administrative body comes to the conclusion in advance: no disclosure, then there is no need to go past the person concerned. The administrative board is therefore the first step. Otherwise we'd be bothering a lot of people unnecessarily, I guess. I think that was also a concern of Mr Segers. Then I come to the exception of personal security. It was addressed in questions. Mr Van Raak asked about the security of individuals as a relative exception and the coherence with the absolute exception of state security. State security is at least about the protection of the democratic rule of law. Then it could be institutions, buildings, goods and certainly people. The relative basis of the security of persons is an extension of the current Article 10, 7th paragraph, part b of the Public Administration Act. Under that law, as an exception, the provision of environmental information, for example, may be omitted in the interests of company security and the prevention of sabotage. It did not seem logical for the initiators to apply this exception only to environmental information. That is why we also proposed a general exception, which is broader than just environmental information. Thus, in the variant currently in the law, it also applies to individuals with a specific security risk, or to a public area where a large number of persons are located. Security measures are rightly very cautious, but there must always be a weighting. It is then a question of considering whether public access outweighs the risk. That is why this land has added value. The basic attitude of this law is, of course, always to weigh and to work as little as possible on absolute grounds of exception. And indeed, there may be overlap between both grounds, for example in the security of the King or of Parliament. An attack on either is also a distortion of the democratic rule of law. In such a case, the absolute exception to State security would probably always be invoked. There, too, however, it cannot be ruled out that there is less sensitive information where disclosure can still be made through a relative exception. I'm thinking of fences around holiday homes. In other cases where the security of persons is at issue without a threat to national security, this law does not allow recourse to the absolute ground. That brings me to the exception of the policy concept. A number of Members asked for this earlier during Mrs Voortman's reply. Almost all the groups asked about the scope. What does it mean for the policy intimacy of officials? Mrs Oosenbrug rightly said that you need to think very carefully about this. I'd love to agree with her. Policy intimacy is extremely important for a well-functioning government. We have therefore amended the article on personal policy in the third letter of amendment. It is now more in line with Article 11 of the WOB. In this way, we will prevent the sensing of borders and insecure practices that may prevent officials from feeling free to exchange their views. That is something we must avoid. Mr Segers asked for this very specifically. In addition to the article, we have incorporated more explicitly what is to be understood by those personal policy concepts. I quote: "Personal policy concepts mean administrative advice, visions, views and considerations for internal reflection, non-facts, forecasts, policy alternatives, the consequences of a particular policy alternative or other elements of a predominantly objective nature." Through this separation, we are trying to make it clear to everyone what is really a personal policy concept and what is nevertheless more objective, general information that should lead to public access. By doing so, it also takes the ground off not to honor, consciously or unconsciously, information requests. I would also like to mention that, for example, political and strategic advice is not objective, so that remains confidential. For example, the question is how we enter the negotiations. Or that Minister Plasterk is advised to make high efforts in the negotiations with Mrs Voortman. I would like to respond to some of the other questions raised by Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u106	Mr Veldman has another question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u107	Mr Van Weyenburg just gave a quote from the third letter of amendment on what should be understood by personal policy ideas. However, administrative advice, visions, views and considerations for internal reflection, non-facts, forecasts, policy alternatives, the consequences of a given policy alternative or other elements. Can he explain to me the difference between official advice and a policy alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u108	A policy alternative could be the following. It is considered to opt for plan A, but this is weighed against plan B in the preparation. We believe that it serves the public to know what Plan B is. That's a policy alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u109	Couldn't it be the same? Officials are talking to a minister or secretary of state. A direction has been chosen and is being rethought. In addition to this variant, this form or this policy alternative that has been devised, an official has another idea. That's official advice. Couldn't we do it the same way? The official has given it a lot of thought, it's not just a figment of thought. He's put a few things on paper. Because of me this can be seen as something that has already been worked out, so as a kind of policy alternative. Is that public or not? In my opinion, you're still just thinking about it and it's official advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u110	That's hard. That depends very much on the specific case. If that really is a detailed alternative, then I do not see what interest it is harmed by making it public. Then everyone can see that the Cabinet has weighed A and B and has decided on A. Of course, the official in question is anonymous. Mr Veldman is right. That's something this law wants to put out in the open. We are expressing it because we have the impression that these kinds of things which are not yet available in the public domain can be relied upon on this exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u111	Very briefly, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u112	Still a follow-up question. Mr Van Weyenberg says: if that is a sensible alternative, then it is a policy alternative and it should simply be public. Does this not lead to officials not presenting their opinions in such a way that this can be seen as a policy alternative? They then lay down a three-quarters story or a 50% story to the minister, because imagine! Then the official thinks: I'm not making it completely perfect and not quite well thought out, otherwise I run the risk of my mind getting out on the street, while the Minister has indicated that he wants to go another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u113	I believe that I have much more faith in both the ministers of this country and in the officials. I now sense some wonder and even bewilderment on my left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u114	I see the Minister's making a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u115	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The assumption is that something very bad will happen that we do not want to have in public. I think that having such an alternative in public is just fine. There has been a deliberate decision to do or not to do something. If it does, it will automatically become public and if it does not, it will be weighted and a different choice has been made. I have so much faith in our public administration that I am not afraid of that at all, but I have a great deal of faith in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u116	We all agree that the information, policy proposals and alternatives come out in the open and that you can consider them. We are opposed, however, to the fact that there is a certain degree of arbitrariness. It must be very clear when you do it and when you don't; you can't decide that on a case-by-case basis. I just heard Mr Van Weyenberg say that it depends on the case. We have had the discussion in the Chamber about whether there are 100,000 refugees coming to the Netherlands or 53 000. You cannot then say that it is a sensitive case which is therefore not dealt with. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u117	I thank Mr Amhaouch for giving me the opportunity to choose my words more precisely. I didn't mean to say that you look at each case to see if it's convenient. I meant that the rules are clear and that every case will have to show whether it complies with the rules. Then, of course, you always have a balance: what is political strategic advice and what is policy alternative? This will have to grow, but in the end equal cases will always have to lead to an equal outcome. I would like to repeat that to Mr Amhaouch. Mrs Oosenbrug warned that through these clarifications, by law and what happens to personal policy concepts, we should not be in a situation where communication will be done via yellow slice notes, app messages or conversations at the coffee machine. In replying to the report, we, as authors, argued that, for example, an app message is equivalent to a form of oral communication. I don't expect that practice to grow. I have no reason to fear that this will become the new method of administrative advice. Well, then we're extremely far from home, and I'm assuming we're gonna be okay. In the third letter of amendment, we have made it quite clear that you should not think about it, and I hope that Mr Veldman will be able to gain more confidence in it. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for those for whom these policy ideas should not be traceable to a person. Is that a random outsider or a well-informed journalist? The answer is: for both. The requirement in the law is absolutely formulated. This means that for an ordinary official note which may involve several authors, less needs to be done to provide it in an irresistible form than for a notion written by a top official, of whom there are fewer, and which will soon give away the content which person is behind it. Mr President, this brings me to the point about the Commissioner for Information. Many groups have asked questions about this Commissioner. Mr Van Raak has doubts about the added value of an information commissioner and wants to know whether the initiators share his view that problems surrounding the WOB are already being addressed by the proposals in the Open Government Act on more active disclosure and the establishment of a register. I can go with that part of it. Culture change must ultimately come from the administration itself. Active disclosure and an electronic register are an important part of this. But given current practice, a larger turnaround will be needed. Then it's wise to have some kind of stick behind the door. Or, positively put, you need a helping hand; not as a threat, but as a tool. In my view, this could give an extra boost to cultural change. Mrs Oosenbrug also had serious doubts about the Information Commissioner. She said usefulness and need not yet see. She also mentioned the costs of setting up an information commissioner. In response to the objections and doubts raised in the Chamber, the initiators discussed how to deal with this official and his staff. In the third letter of amendment, we have therefore proposed postponing the entry into force of the provisions on the Information Commissioner by four years. I am saying here that this was also a firm case for the proposers, as was the case for the decision-makers. This part will therefore enter into force only one year after the early evaluation. If the Chamber wishes to decide at that time that an information commissioner is not necessary to achieve the desired cultural change in the Open Government Act, it can then submit a legislative amendment to that effect. However, the starting point is that there will be an information commissioner, but not for four years. I am confident that if the Chamber decides otherwise, it will find an appropriate way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u118	I always need some more words to understand things properly. If I understand correctly, the Chamber in its composition in four years' time can say, when it comes to the evaluation, that it is actually doing so well with the publicity that this information Commissioner is not really necessary; we have incredible confidence in our officials, so we trust that they will do this right. If I understand correctly, in such a case, such an information commissioner does not automatically arrive, but the Chamber can decide not to do so. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u119	I do not think Mrs Oosenbrug needs many words at all. She underestimates herself, I say kindly to her. No, in four years the provision will enter into force. It's in the law. We'll postpone this for four years. Between the evaluation and the entry into force there is therefore another year. I will come to that in a moment, but the evaluation will follow after three years. As a government and a parliament, they feel that they can do without such an information commissioner because things are going very well. In such a situation, the entry into force after four years gives us time to prepare for a legislative amendment. But let me be clear that the starting point is that this will come into effect. This, however, gives the government and the Chamber time after the evaluation to
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u120	I have two questions about this. The first is indeed about the establishment of the Information Commissioner. I read what the authors have now written about this. That gives me the impression that the proposers themselves have no confidence that things are going well. The information commissioner is set up automatically. The proposers therefore assume that it will not succeed with the planned cultural change which this law would then have to bring about. By the way, you may wonder if you can bring about a change in culture by law. The authors assume that it will not work, because they will incorporate the arrival of that information commissioner in the law in such a way that he will get there anyway, unless the Chamber decides not to. Shouldn't you be reasoning the other way around? Shouldn't you just create the possibility for a stick behind the door in the form of a hook? If, after that evaluation, it turns out that it is not good enough, then the Commissioner for Information will indeed be there. Wouldn't that be the right order? My second question concerns the situation of the Commissioner for Information. The proposers want to place him with the National Ombudsman. As far as I'm concerned, that's a little weird. In fact, the National Ombudsman is explicitly in favour of monitoring what public bodies do. That is stated in paragraph 1 of Article 78a of the Constitution, I say by heart. This is explicitly about 'public bodies'. With the extension of the scope of the initiative proposal for the Open Government Act, for which you create a hook and where everything can be added later, a lot of non-government bodies also come under the functioning of the law. It is then strange to bring the Commissioner for Information to the National Ombudsman. I would like to hear a reflection on that from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u121	If Mr Veldman will allow me, I will come back to that second question in detail. That is what his colleague, Mr Taverne, has asked for. If Mr Veldman is okay with it, I'm going to answer quietly in a moment. I'm sure he'll find his way to the interrupting microphone if he doesn't satisfy him. On that first point: after we have listened carefully in the first period, we are now giving a hand to the Chamber by postponing its entry into force by four years. That could have been Mr Veldman's interruption. Now he's actually saying he doesn't have faith in it, because we're still bringing in the Information Commissioner. That's right, because we really think this instrument can be helpful. There are countries where this works well. That is why we have chosen to postpone the entry into force by four years, listening to the concerns. In doing so, we will allow the Chamber to make a change if it appears after the evaluation that it runs in such a way that a majority in the Chamber feels that it is no longer necessary. There's plenty of time for that. We believe in the instrument in such a way that we think it is important that this official should in principle just get there. That is why we have put this in the legislative proposal. We believe that it can contribute if the staff member is present. Perhaps in the coming years it will also be an incentive for public institutions to take the right path generously and diligently in the run-up to its arrival.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u122	Of course, it is always nice for the proposers of an initiative proposal to listen carefully to the first-term input, to respond to concerns or questions from the Chamber and to make adjustments. That's good. In fact, however, Mr Van Weyenberg says that the Commissioner for Information should simply be one as far as he is concerned. I don't understand the hand-out. If he thinks that this has real added value and that the Information Commissioner should be one from now on because it helps to bring about cultural change, Mr Van Weyenberg should simply have stuck to the fact that he should be one from now on. He'd see how the Chamber handled that. Now he comes with a stick behind the door that's not a stick behind the door. He has to get there, but Mr Van Weyenberg is postponing it. He's actually saying that he has no confidence that things are going well. I don't understand why this choice is made. Either Mr Van Weyenberg says that he has confidence in it and that this information Commissioner is needed, or he listens to the Chamber, says that this information Commissioner may not be necessary and that he has confidence that it will come naturally. The stick behind the door is that he gets there if it doesn't go well, but the other way around, it doesn't. The question is: why does Mr Van Weyenberg explicitly choose to just keep him alive and then postpone it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u123	We believe in the role of the Information Commissioner. We have now done a hand-out, seeking support in this Chamber. I think that nothing else is expected of the proposers either. It's clear he's coming. We believe that even the announcement could contribute to cultural change. We offer the Chamber a further year after the evaluation the possibility of reaching a different balance. Indeed, in the legislative proposal that we submit to the Chamber, the Commissioner for Information arrives after four years. Mr Veldman said in a subtlety: you do not force cultural change with a law; that is a strange form. I would remind him, for example, of the quota law for the employment of people with disabilities. The cabinet, to which Mr Veldman's party belongs, has also submitted a law which will enter into force in a number of years if certain objectives are not met. The concept whereby you put something in a law like a stick behind the door, that sounds negative though, or a hook in case things don't go as hoped, isn't unique. In the example, a quota will then enter into force. This goes into this after four years. It is difficult to quantify when a change in culture is so great that the Commissioner for Information is no longer needed. That is why we offer the Chamber every opportunity to ask the Cabinet for a change, if necessary, after the evaluation, or to the Cabinet to propose that change itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u124	You're all making speeches. If you ask questions, I am prepared to give you the floor again. However, you all tend to argue. If you continue to argue, I'm not going to make any more exceptions for the rest of the evening. If you ask questions, there is that possibility. Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u125	Mr President, I felt addressed for a moment, so I am not asking a question but a question again. The example given by Mr Van Weyenberg is exactly what I mean: if something fails, something will come. However, the proposers present it in such a way that he gets there anyway, whether he succeeds or doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u126	Mr Veldman found it strange to lay down in the law something for the future. That's the reason for parallelity. It's not perfect, I'll admit it right away. I just wanted to point out that by means of a law, you can actually give support to cultural change.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u127	I will continue with Mr Veldman's line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u128	But in the inquisitive sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u129	The third letter of amendment states that the authors consider that the information commissioner is the main instrument. So not just any instrument, but the main instrument. How can Mr Van Weyenberg use this as a change if this is the main instrument for making this law a success, especially in the context of cultural change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u130	The word "change money" looks like cow business, but it's not. We have genuinely tried to give a hand to the Chamber with a four-year delay. However, we do value the instrument, so that information commissioner will be there in four years' time, unless the Chamber, in the meantime, is always free to consider it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u131	Do you not think that the information Commissioner is essential in the first four years? I am not talking about the position of the Information Commissioner with regard to the responsibilities of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u132	I understand Mr Amhaouch's question: if you are so attached to it, why do you give a hand in this respect to the Chamber? That's what we do with a heavy heart. Indeed, I would have preferred to have done this together with Mr Voortman from day one. The postponement of the entry into force by four years is therefore a firm gesture by the petitioners to the Chamber, in an attempt to find support. I'm not making it a secret that we'd rather have done this right away. The fact that we attach so much to it is the reason why we do not choose 'just to see if he gets there'. We have chosen to put the Commissioner's arrival in the law as an automatism, with the Chamber always having the room to make a different legal choice. Ms Keijzer asked what the Information Commissioner does with copies of decisions taken by administrative bodies. Before there were any misunderstandings, let me point out to Mrs Keijzer that these are not copies of all decisions under the Open Government Act. These are decisions as referred to in Article 7.3: cases in which an administrative body applies either the anti-abuse clause or claims that it has not been cooperated by the applicant in clarifying the investigation. This information can be used by the Information Commissioner to properly implement his competence, not in an individual case, but to say, for example, that a certain administrative body has already used the anti-abuse clause ten times, while the judge has ruled ten times that this was not correct. In such a case, the information commissioner will have a serious discussion with the administrative board: is this going to be all right? Furthermore, Mr Taverne, like Mr Veldman, asked about the position of the Information Commissioner as a substitute ombudsman in relation to Article 78a of the Constitution. Mr Taverne probably referred to the fact that according to that article the National Ombudsman focuses on the government and that the Open Government Act can also extend to the semi-public sector. It is true, it is possible that the information on semi-public institutions will soon be brought under the scope of the Open Government Act through an appropriate administrative body by General Measure of Management. The powers of the Information Commissioner shall not then focus on the institution concerned, but on the administrative body designated to disclose the information in question. That is my first clarification. A similar question has already been addressed in the introduction of the Kinderombudsman. At that time, private institutions for youth care were involved in carrying out a legal task. At that time, too, the question of the relationship with the Constitution was asked. That was only a problem, while the role of the Children's Ombudsman may go even further than that of the Commissioner in this bill, where there is still an administrative body. Which brings me to the cost block. Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Keijzer asked about the costs of this bill. This concerns the costs for the information register and for the information commissioner. Let me first mention the savings; I'm sure you'll forgive me, Mr President. A Dutch WOB request is expensive, on average around €4,800, while abroad is often less than €1,000. If more information can be found directly by opening the register of information and an attitude of more confidence rather than mistrust arises, the applicants consider that it is likely that both the number of requests and their content will decrease. Investing in public therefore pays financially for administrative bodies. Will these costs then also be €1,000? We do not dare to promise this, but we do believe that serious savings are possible. Then I'll come to the cost, as requested. We believe that the costs for the information register could be limited, especially now that a phased entry into force is being chosen, as was shown earlier in the exchange of views with Mr Voortman. Required investments, which will naturally vary by administrative body, can be taken into account in the regular ICT renewals. Of course, the BIT opinion can also play a role in such innovations, in addition to Mrs Voortman's reply. After all, there is also a concrete ICT plan. Here's just the wish for the register to come. Administrative bodies will often already have systems for, for example, the registration of incoming documents and already do good storage and archiving, if only because of the obligations under the Archive Act. If all this goes well, then making a list of these documents accessible in the form of a register for the outside world is a step that must be feasible. In her interruption, Mrs Oosenbrug already referred to the perhaps occasional mythical fear that some sometimes express. According to the research carried out by SEO Economic Research, the costs for the Information Commissioner amount to about EUR 5 million per year. The exact costs, of course, depend on the number of cases and requests made by such an information commissioner, but that was the best assessment that could be made. Of course, the better the public authorities deal with the disclosure of information, the less the information commissioner will have to take action, which of course means that the costs are lower. Unfortunately, the opposite may also be the case: if the Commissioner for Information is found to be working very often, it will also involve more effort and therefore more costs. This is, however, for a good cause and always in the hope that changes in culture and in the actions of government organisations will enable costs to be reduced. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on some of the varieties. Mr Segers thought it was a noble ambition of my predecessor Mr Schouw to call 2015 the year of privacy. It is no longer 2015 anymore, but I would like to thank him for that, and I also hope that he will support it when it comes to protecting privacy in the years to come. He was still wondering whether large-scale registers such as those in the Open Government Act are also a risk to the protection of privacy. That's a sharp observation. We believe this will not be the case, because this register contains public sector information and not sets of personal data. Mr Segers also asked about the evaluation clause. After five years of evaluation, isn't it late? The initiators share that view. We are therefore happy to meet Mr Segers on this point. In the third letter of amendment, we brought forward the review clause to three years and used it again for three years to do so after four years with regard to the Commissioner for Information, so that there is also continuity. And last but not least, but certainly not least, when I just pretend that Mr Elias is sitting on the chair of the chairman, I come to Mr Sjoerdsma's question about the publication of incoming documents at waterboards. He was right to point out that the bill on water boards now looks at the publication of meeting papers and agendas but not yet at the publication of the received documents, whereas provinces and municipalities have to. That was a mistake in the bill. Let me end with that. We were able to correct that in the third letter of amendment. I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for the attentive look.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u133	I would like to thank Mr Van Weyenberg very much, but we are not going home tonight without hearing the advice of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u134	Mr. Chairman. First of all, as always when an initiative law is in place, my compliments to the initiators. I'll go into it so extensively. I imagine I'll do it like this. First of all, I would like to give a brief introduction to the government's views on public administration. Then I would like to take a small step towards an ongoing legislative process of which we have had the first term and which is related to the present proposal, namely the combination of the Penalty Law and the Public Administration Act. Then I would like to give the cabinet's opinion on the elements of the present initiative proposal and then I would like to answer the questions specifically asked by Members of the Chamber in the first term. I just saw a picture taken of the club "Open Government Team." Should T-shirts be printed for this, I am recommended! Then I would be happy to join, because the cabinet believes that openness of administration is essential for a democracy. The government is there for the citizens, the government is there for the citizens and through the elections it is also by the citizens. The starting point must therefore be that the information held by the public authorities is in principle public, unless there are reasons to act differently. That hasn't gotten through everything yet. I can also very well imagine that directors, officials or administrative bodies, if they have been working on information for a very long time, sometimes feel that it has become their information and that nobody has anything to do with it. But that's not how we got married. That is not the starting point of the law, not even as it currently exists. You shouldn't be. So there is still a world to be won when it comes to furthering the awareness that that information should in principle be public. This is not just about publicising information that is held by the government. That's the classic model. You stored that in a closet and someone wants a photocopy of it, but it goes much wider than that. Until 2013, there was actually no specific policy aimed at an open government. Then we became a member, also internationally, of an open government partnership. In 2013, I sent a piece to the Chamber, the Open Government Action Plan for the years 2014 and 2015. Last December, we updated this with a new action plan for the years 2016 and 2017. The aim is to obtain, as much as possible, an open attitude and behaviour by governments. I don't go into any of that in detail right now, but the Chamber knows for example the Learning and Expertise Point Open Government. These are all kinds of tools that we have provided, including for the other governments. Much information is already actively made public, for example on top incomes in the Top Income Standards Act, but also on operating costs and administrative costs. Declarations have been actively made public by the official and administrative summit of the country for a number of years. You can also think of research reports, purchasing information, financial information, execution tests or, for example, the letter from the Minister of Finance about the disclosure of the Audit Service's reports. The starting point is always public, unless. In addition, and more specifically, in the field of open data, I sent a national open data agenda in November 2015. This gives shape to the intention that when the data is collected as much as possible, it is assumed that it will be actively disclosed immediately and that you will get large sets. The government is probably the largest administrator of large datasets in the country that are actively made public, whether it is the weather, traffic data or the WPA value of homes. All files must be made public as actively as possible. Last year, with a number of trainees from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we took a tour of all departments to pick up those kind of sets. That gave us a few hundred new datasets. I've told you before that I'd like to take another round this year to see if there's much more. In general, we have tried to do a lot about it in recent years, but there is much more to do. Before I get to the initiative proposal, I'm taking a small step towards the bill I submitted to stop the coincidence of the Penalty and Public Administration Act with the aim of preventing abuse. On that occasion, I mentioned figures and estimates from the SEO report showing that the annual burden may amount to around EUR 14 million. Please note that this is not a matter of periodic penalty payments paid but of activities carried out as a result of applications for periodic penalty payments. Case law shows that there are abusers who have collected more than two tonnes of periodic penalty payments from one administrative body in more than a year. We all agree that this shouldn't be the case. It is right that this bill removes this. I have waited out of politics for a moment with my legislative proposal to deal with this initiative proposal. Since this initiative proposal is now before the House, I would ask the Chamber to take up the second deadline and vote on my legislative proposal in any case, preferably within a few weeks. This does not affect the path of the present initiative proposal. If that is in the Official Journal, the entire WOB, including the repair envisaged by the cabinet proposal, will be cancelled anyway. That's why I'm asking the Chamber. As she knows, the Dutch municipalities also strongly insist on this. I am also beginning to find it difficult to explain why we are not just fixing it now, because that practice is still there and there is a great majority in the Chamber who thinks that it should stop. I know that there are some suggestions on the part of the PvdA and the CDA for amendments to that bill. They should be discussed at that time. Now that we are discussing this legislative initiative, I would ask the Chamber to have the second deadline and the vote on my proposal as soon as possible. I would like to speak on the initiative proposal. In view of my introduction and the T-shirt that has been promised to me, my basic attitude is that I am sympathetic to the intention of the bill. Well, it's a far-reaching law. I have to look precisely at the implications of the proposal. I want to do that with the seriousness that it deserves. It's always a bit flat to start with about the money.My mom didn't think that was polite before, but it's no different. In the case of an own-initiative proposal, the costs must be identified in real terms. They should be undisputed and in the picture. There should be agreement with those who have to make the costs and that costs should be covered. That is entirely in the spirit of the views of my old buddy Wouter Koolmees, spokesman for finance of the D66 Group. In fact, everything stops if you don't have a clear financial record and a financial coverage. I have well understood the expectation that in the long term there will be a payback effect because there may be less claim to the disclosure of documents. Anyway, that's an expectation. We should have an idea of what the costs are, for example, of such a register. That register is actually in the proposal before us, just like the Information Commissioner. We don't know that now. I have been informed in my environment and, for example, received the following estimate from the Tax Administration. The Tax Administration has 160 million documents to be entered annually in the register and estimates that this will cost 55 million euros a year. That's only with the IRS. Again, I'll pass it on; I didn't test it independently again. I think you can reasonably assume that if it is only there, it will be really substantial costs if you also look at local authorities and other ministries. That's the cost you need to see. That in general. This applies, for example, to the information register. I understand that this does not start immediately, but we still have to assess the proposal that is now before us. It does say that information register. That is also the time to provide cover for this. This is a large-scale ICT operation. Of course you can say that when purchasing new systems, the costs might be reduced by doing it at the same time. But that does not mean that it is cost-neutral compared to the non-entry of such a register. My suggestion would be to take over the advice of the House of Representatives and ask for a BIT opinion before such a large ICT project is launched. I am also saying this because the first-term answer showed that, at least in the transitional phase, the French system, the document system in which citizens can only call for the publication of those documents which are in the register, could be combined with the regime of the current WOB as far as the initiators are concerned. In addition, one can ask for all information on a particular issue, the old ones. The administrative bodies, municipalities and other authorities will then have to comply with that request, in addition to making available what is currently in the information register. Also, active disclosure within one or two weeks involves work that I cannot fully assess, because the grounds for exception must be reviewed when making public, as the present initiative proposal also states. In a manner of speaking, it must be clear from each paragraph whether or not something is covered by the exceptions. We have just had an extensive debate on this. That is not trivial; it is not always automatic. Finally, I come to the question of implementation. I understand that the opinions of the Council of State must also be made public within two weeks according to the present proposal. Frankly, that changes the whole legislative process; it has far-reaching implications. The same applies to the Council of Ministers' decision list. The government is not in favour of this, but it is not the hardest part of my opinion, so I would add immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u135	I was just looking for the Minister's end point when it comes to finance. He says some sensible things about that. It is indeed good to have an idea of what this is going to cost us now. In relation to this, I would like to ask the Minister if he can reflect on the call I have just made to the proposers to possibly have Actal do a real investigation in addition to the letter we have received to what this means for the burden, the regulatory burden, which brings with it all the changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u136	It is up to the Court to decide what information it needs in order to form a judgment. My advice would be to put that in the picture. This is consistent, partly because other governments, such as the VNG, have also reacted critically to the proposal before us. They do not say: it does not matter in terms of costs, because we will earn it back. If there seems to be a disagreement between those who are going to carry it out and those who are going to do it, I would imagine that it will indeed be tested independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u137	The minister already mentioned the VNG which is quite critical and is also a very important stakeholder in this piece. How much does the Minister attach to that opinion for its success, suppose it would go that way anyway? How much does the Minister attach to the VNG's opinion on its feasibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u138	The government could not afford to bring a bill here if there had been no administrative consultation with the UNG on the financial implications. That's Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u139	I listened very carefully to the Minister. I hear him speak very warm words about how important public access is. He's making himself very hard for that, too. As a spokesperson, I have a lot to do with that, and I can see that. Next comes the story that it costs us a lot of money. However, I am not convinced of the 55 million from the Tax Office; let me put it first. Let me speak from my experience as an ICT user, as a builder of systems: 55 million for documentation is quite a lot of money. Anyway, I'd like to think about that. Let's see how we can get a good picture of that. We look very much at the costs in everything, but we also have to look at the revenues. Then the BIT investigation. The BIT was established to look at ICT projects. This is an ICT project, but it is also a working method project. I'm still trying to come up with a question before the chairman gets very angry with me. The question is whether the Minister sees the added value of an open government. I think he's tough on that. What does it take to ensure that the cabinet would support a fine law on the open government? I am still working on a proposal on lobbying, where we will also meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u140	The answer is yes. I have very warm feelings about the open government. That's what I started. That does not relieve me of the duty to point out the cost aspects. There are other elements in which fellow ministers may have warm feelings, but it all has to be paid out of the same pot. In any case, we are subject to fairly strict discipline on this point. Before it comes to a positive opinion from Box K, there will still have to be coverage. I hadn't heard an estimate of the information commissioner's costs. I now hear that this is EUR 5 million. That's more than the budget for the House for whistleblowers. That's quite a significant budget. As the chairman knows, coverage is not easy. You'd have to have something like that in your head before you decide. Let me not hang on to this for too long and continue with the scope of the proposal. I have taken good note of the fact that its extension to non-state sectors is not immediate, but to AMvB. Even then, there is already an assessment of a law that makes it possible to change the scope of the Public Administration Act to non-administrative bodies, to institutions where public access is often desirable in itself, but this desirability is generally laid down in the Sectoral Act. Semi-public institutions do not have a direct accountability relationship with the citizen in a state-law sense. This could potentially be introduced here. That really is a break with the existing relationship between the public and private sectors. Then I come to the information Commissioner, having also heard the interrupting debate just now. I shall confine myself to the present legislative proposal, which states that it will be adopted, even in four years' time. I read that part right. This information commissioner is given far-reaching powers, whereby he or she may even cross ongoing appeal and objection procedures. You have to wonder if that's what you want. In addition, many decisions should be forwarded to that Information Commissioner, without evidence of the usefulness and necessity of such transmission. I think we should judge the bill as it stands. If it can be changed in three years' time, there will be a year left to change the law before it automatically enters into force, so that would still be tight. I don't think that's a reason not to give advice on it, which is why I'm doing it now. I will not go into the grounds for refusal, which have just been mentioned. If you change the law and pass on a trade-off or harm the interest between the government or third parties, this means that de facto the current case law of the last 30 years has been disregarded and that a fresh start must be made. That still has some feet in the earth. I heard there was an amendment bubbling up. My advice would be that this case law should not start from scratch, with a new criterion, namely the serious damage to the interest. There are still some minor points on the provision of information. The deadline is now four weeks plus four weeks extension. I understand that the initiators prefer to reduce the time limit for extension to one week, whereas it is now two weeks. In the various departments, and in my opinion also in the municipalities, there is a feeling that in a number of cases the extension is indeed necessary in order to examine in detail and to the sense level whether or not something is covered by the exception criteria. That deadline would therefore be too tight. Anyway, that may not be the main point of advice. All in all and despite all the warm feelings I have, I can't help but dissuade the present proposal. That brings me to the answers to the remaining questions. Mr Segers asked about the relationship to the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act. That has just been answered. With the introduction, this has now in fact been deleted. So it's no longer on the agenda. Mr Segers also asked about possible alternatives. In any case, I refer to the repair in the field of abuse. In my introduction, I also referred to all kinds of other ways to enter the open government, other than the classic image of a government with a cabinet full of documents that need to be made public unless there are grounds for refusal. Mr Sjoerdsma asked what I think of the idea of a pilot of the Montesquieu Institute with an information concept developed by the Institute. I have looked at this, but my impression is that this concept is substantially different from the obligation to register in the initiative proposal. The concept of the Montesquieu Institute concerns information which is already public and which is then enriched. So I would not like to put that right in advance, if that law comes naturally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u141	For the Acts, I think it is important to pay some attention to that one week, which would have been two weeks. That's not exactly right, because it's been four weeks plus two weeks. I do not think that matters for the opinion of the cabinet, but I think it is important that the Acts make it clear that it is not a two-week decision-making period, but a total of six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u142	I thought I said that: you have four weeks before the active disclosure and those four weeks would have initially become one week, but have now become two weeks by letter of amendment. Thank you for this correction. The proposers will explain this later. They had already explained this well, so apparently it's me. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether the list of exceptions in Article 8.8 should be reviewed. No signs have come to me that that would be necessary. Finally, I should like to comment on the amendment tabled to the Chamber by Mrs Oosenbrug and Mrs Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-31-tweedekamer-15.u143	Thank you very much. The second time-limit for dealing with this law will take place at a later date. I would like to thank all those present: the Minister, the initiators and their assistants. I wish everyone a good and safe journey home.
