ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u1	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor. 18 motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer a few more questions and deal with a number of motions. Then the Minister for Finance will deal with the other motions. Questions have been asked about decentralisation. I think we should say in general terms that the decentralisations were necessary, because it is now possible for municipalities to pursue an integrated policy. In this context, I would mention, for example, the integration of youth care, the whole aspect of social support and care, but also, for example, through the Participation Act, all issues relating to income policy and getting people back on their feet. That customization was very important to this cabinet. We believe that this can be done as well as possible, especially in the municipalities. That is why the whole decentralisation policy has been designed. 2015 was the first year of decentralisation. Of course, that was a big change. Of course, that's never going to happen without a hit or a hit. Nevertheless, a great deal has gone well in 2015 and additional agreements have been made where necessary. This is also part of a big change: you always look at things from the ground up and make adjustments where necessary. The main point, namely making customization possible and not based on the regulation but on the people, and thus helping and serving people as well as possible, was and is of great importance to this cabinet. That is why we support these decentralisations. The spokesperson of the Christian Union has noted that the division continues. Now let me put my image to that. We are, in comparison with many other countries, a country with relatively small income disparities. We are a country with relatively little poverty, for example among the elderly. We are a country with perhaps the most accessible healthcare system in Europe and perhaps even in the whole world. And we are a country where access to education is extremely well regulated for everyone in relation to the countries around us. So where, as a cabinet, we had the goal of seeking in our policy the connection between all kinds of groups in society, I think that the policy that has actually promoted and certainly has not opposed it. So I'm proud of that, too. Then a question was asked about MH17. The Netherlands will make proposals to ICAO in June 2016 to retain radar images. So this is for the future. For the past, the report of the OVV has also been accepted by ICAO. In its report, the OVV stated that it was not hindered by the fact that no primary radar images were available. Even without that footage, the OVV said it could do its job well. The state's attorney's office isn't asking us for any action. There is therefore no dispute that can now be brought before ICAO. That is why I said in the first term that, apart from not wanting to pursue such a case on the basis that the Netherlands will be involved in the substance and put its fingerprint on that investigation, which prevents prosecution and trial, there is no legal basis for it, if you wish to do so. Having said that, I come to the motions after I have answered Mr Omtzigt's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u3	You can ask one question, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u4	Secretary of State Dijksma has made it clear that a complaint can be lodged with ICAO. The OVV has clearly said that he would have liked to have those radar images. ICAO indicated that Russia was also obliged under the current rules to provide these images. The Dutch Government is the only one who can initiate a complaint procedure. That doesn't have to be done by the state's attorney's office, because this is an O.V.V. case. What is the reason why the Dutch Government did not bring this action? The OVV has indicated that he would have liked that footage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u5	The OVV has said that it has been able to do its job well without those primary radar images. There is simply no conflict that can be brought before ICAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u7	I'll start with the second motion. The first is dealt with by the Minister of Finance. I do not recommend Mr Omtzigt's motion for a resolution. 4. I am against breaking the division of labour within the cabinet. These ministers are perfectly capable of doing it themselves. The progress shall be reported at the usual times. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 5. We discussed it at length in the debate. I do not share the assessment in this motion. Then the motion to part No. 6. May I first of all say to Mr Nijboer that I have not promised that everything has been resolved with regard to the serious shortcomings, but that we will make an extreme effort. That is also my reaction to this motion. We are making a great effort, but there is no obligation to achieve results. The motions on the documents Nos. 7 and 8 will be dealt with by the Minister for Finance. With regard to the motion in part No. 9 I have just checked what Minister Van der Steur has promised in the Upper House. He will chart the pros and cons before the summer. I dissuade the motion because it is unnecessary. On the basis of the motion in the First Chamber there will be an overview of the pros and cons before the summer. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 10. About the previous year, the Cabinet reports in the annual reports. They are audited by the General Court of Auditors. The government will report on the progress of the improvement measures in the budget. I made this commitment in the first place. We'll do that thoroughly. Mrs. Schouten said I was joking about it, but I didn't mean to. I want to take seriously the fact that this is happening in the budget. This comes back to Prince's Day and concerns a review of the first six months. This is also the system used by the Defence Department in reporting on the readiness of the armed forces. I am now talking about the serious shortcomings in V and J and not about the other shortcomings. I am therefore not in favour of additional reporting by the Court of Auditors on the budget either. On balance, I reject the motion, especially because of what is stated in the last operative part, namely that the Court of Auditors should assess that report. The motion in part No. 11 and the motion in part No. 12 are dealt with by the Minister for Finance. The motion in part No. 13 is superfluous and therefore I advise her in accordance with the system-Van der Staaij. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment will present an action plan before the summer. The motion is superfluous, because it has already been carried out. It seems to me that this motion does not need to be put to the vote anymore. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 14. There is currently a plan to combat youth unemployment. The motion in part No. 15 is about purchasing power development. As you know, the government is always looking very carefully at purchasing power development. It always does in the run-up to Prince's Day, but it doesn't anticipate the exact outcome. That would be unusual, too. We also want to see how economic development develops between now and Princess Day. Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mr Krol. We have, of course, had discussions on this with the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Minister of Social Affairs will pick this up, for example in a discussion with the Tax Administration about more information about the mobility bonus. It is a right point of the General Court, and that is what we are taking up. This motion is policy support. The motions in part No. 17 and 18 will do the Minister of Finance and the motion in part No. 19 I advise against it because it is completely unnecessary. I would suggest that the other motions be put to the vote by the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u8	I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Finance in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. I've got some loose ends I'd moved on to the second term. Mrs De Vries asked a question about the operational readiness of the armed forces. I suggest that we send a letter to the Chamber about this with the research assignment. I had said that it would be ready in March 2017, but the Minister of Defence has informed me that she is more ambitious and I cannot, of course, stand in her way. At the end of 2016 we hope to have this piece ready. Mr Omtzigt had another question about tax incentives for economical cars. We are not aware of what the State Council has promised more than I have reported to you. The measures in the car letter will only enter into force on 1 January 2017 and we will report to the Chamber in early 2018. I hope that this will meet Mr Omtzigt's request. If it has to be more specific, he'll have to go deeper with the Secretary of State, exactly what he wants. Mr Merkies asked whether the displacement of Dutch workers was included in the evaluation study of the 30% scheme. This is about the expats. The Court of Auditors has mentioned a number of elements: the level of the salary standard, the level of unpaid compensation and the displacement of workers, thus being taken into account in the evaluation. That brings me naturally to the motion in part No. 3 which calls on the Government to reconsider the need for the 30% regime. We're not gonna do that. We are going to evaluate the scheme and this may lead to adjustments, but this motion is so negative in its opinion that I think it is meant by'rethinking' to put an end to it. I reject this motion, we're going to evaluate first. I also have a question from Mr Merkies about the waiting lists in the ggz. There was 200 million left behind. The analysis of the NZa shows that the reason for the existence of waiting lists is not because there is too little budget, there is even money left, but that it is not always clear to clients where they can go quickly and where they can go less quickly. In some places it is very fast, but in others there is a waiting list. Therefore, the NZa has introduced new rules requiring providers and insurers to be clear about their waiting times and to provide information on them. The waiting times can then be reduced and unused resources can be used for this purpose. The second motion by Mr Omtzigt, in part No. 4 has also been treated. I'm not sure the motion in part No. 6 on the operational readiness of the armed forces has already been provided with advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u10	It's already been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u11	Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 7 on the ICT problems in the Tax Administration. This is about what is still possible about tax reforms. It is very difficult to say this in a general sense, because it really makes a lot of difference what measures you would like to take and what their design is, or the pace of implementation. We cannot say in general terms that adjustments to the mortgage interest rate deduction would not be possible. If that's turning a button, it could be very simple. If it's a fundamental review with sliding between boxes and so on, it's a whole different story. It is not unwilling, but the question of which reforms could and could not be done at the moment is really not for us to answer in a general sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr Omtzigt, a question on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u13	Could the government write a letter on what kind of changes are and are not possible? I understand there's no way that's going to go down to the smallest detail. Moreover, if some things need to be changed, the question is whether this can be done immediately or whether it will take two years. It would be nice if this information were available for the elections and preferably also written for the election programmes, so that at least there is an idea of what could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u14	I understand the problem, and I would like to suggest to Mr Omtzigt that he hold on to his motion. There is another debate with the Secretary of State, who is also going to send a letter on these twenty complex regulations. This is also very much about the problems of the Tax Administration, the tax of the Tax Administration. In that debate, Mr Omtzigt can then continue to discuss with the Secretary of State what can and cannot be done. For example, he is very interested in fees. Here again, the question is what fees and what changes. My suggestion would be to hold the motion now and to involve it in the debate and the exchange of information with the Secretary of State who is still following. If necessary, the motion may then come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u15	I'm holding my motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u16	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (34475, No. 7) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u17	Then the motion to part No. 8 by Mr Van Dijck and Mr Wilders. There's a line under the name Wilders. I do not know whether that has any extra significance in parliamentary traffic. This motion calls for the interest rate counter to be used for an increase in the AOW. I would just like to ignore the technique, because Mr Van Dijck knows that this is about money that would have been released last year as a windfall. It wasn't cleared, so I can't put it in. The political message is: the Minister of Finance has a windfall, the elderly are having a difficult time................................................................................................................................................................................................. This motion is unnecessary. As we know, in 2016, we took purchasing power measures, totalling around 900 million, to ensure that older people are also above zero. Our estimate is that they are on average I keep repeating that there are large differences within the group of older people.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Next year it will all go wrong, Mr Van Dijck said. We don't know that yet. There are absolute risks and pension funds suffer from low interest rates. The cabinet simply looks back at the overall purchasing power picture in August and then takes measures, if necessary and as far as possible. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 11 concerns the status holders and the labour market. We have talked about this in this debate. I'm dissuading the motion. To bring together matters of labour market, education and integration, we have decentralised them. The towns are really up to it here. They've been given extra resources. We've reached an agreement on that. A lot is happening to bring language, education, etc. together. There are many examples of this, for example in Amsterdam and Amersfoort. I could draw up a list of projects that do exactly what GroenLinks advocates. However, we are not going to prescribe a single model. The aldermen of GroenLinks in our country really wouldn't want us to move on to policies that are organized on a decentralised basis. The latter was a provocation, Mr. Chairman. I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u18	One question on the motion, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u19	This is really starting to get a little annoying. It is not something that is arranged locally. There will be local repairs in place. Locally it is handled very creatively to try to smooth that a bit, despite the difficult, reckless national rules that partly run through DUO in Groningen and are therefore organised nationally with national legislation on integration. I think that those aldermen of GroenLinks and of all the other parties who are also of good will would be extremely helpful if this were to be simplified.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u20	That's one of those platitudes. Who is against simplification? Funds go to municipalities for integration and integration, funds go to municipalities for social support, funds go to municipalities for the labour market, etc. Yeah, some of the educational resources run through DUO. It's part of it. This is so arranged to ensure that people have access to education by that route. So what exactly is Mr Grashoff proposing here? I advise the motion chairman, because she really has no added value. The motion in part No. 12 by Mr Grashoff and Mr Koolmees, on economic growth and emissions of CO. We have already exchanged arguments about this. We are committed to the objectives of the energy agreement. If more needs to be done to achieve these goals, we will intensify this; I have already said so. However, Mr Grashoff already thinks he knows that this is necessary. Following the ruling in the Urgenda case and the agreement in Paris, the Chamber has already received several letters on this matter from the Cabinet. They were, for example, about research into the phasing-out of coal plants. So these are all matters that are already on our agenda. We are not going to develop a new strategy for this. I therefore advise against this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 17. It deals with the legality of expenditure in the municipal social domain. This is a very constructive motion by Mr Krol. She is about exactly what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken up. I'd like to take over the motion. This is an interesting new opportunity in interparliamentary traffic, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'd like to do that if you'll allow me, Mr President; that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u23	The Krol motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u24	I see Mr Krol nodding, but of course I do not know if I did him a favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u25	I see he doesn't believe it himself yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u26	That's the risk of the job. The motion in part No. 18 comes from Mr Kuzu. It states that the greatest possible independence of the electoral cycle should be exercised in budgetary cycles. Mr Kuzu states that the 5 billion cuts introduced this year are linked to the elections. By the way, the elections are not until next year. Maybe he's wrong about that. He calls opting for this burden relief unwise policy because it would be procyclical. That is very interesting, but I also keep hearing from him that things are still going so badly with the economy in the Netherlands. I hear from exactly the same Mr Kuzu that it is still so weak. Thus, the Cabinet considered that, after years of burden increase, a reduction in the burden is in place to further stimulate economic growth. This is what we are doing to push that economy forward and get people to work. No, says Mr Kuzu now, that cannot be because elections are coming. Well, I find that an incomprehensible reasoning. I reject the motion. The last motion, in part No. 20, by Mr Bontes, deals with the asylum reserve. Mr Bontes may think that this reserve is freely available, but these are simply funds that have already been transferred to V and J from the external trade and development cooperation budget. Those asylum seekers have already arrived. When they arrive, costs will be charged. They're put in an asylum reserve. So these are really already earmarked for asylum reception. So what is requested in the motion is not possible, unless Mr Bontes says: we are simply not going to receive asylum seekers anymore and we are putting them out on the street. However, that is absolutely not the intention of the cabinet. So I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-7.u27	This brings us to the end of the 2015 debate on accountability. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, and also the members of the General Court of Auditors who are in the Chair. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
