ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u1	Six speakers have signed up for this legal process. We shall begin with Mr Van Meenen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Following the Minister's second letter of amendment to this bill, we are now in the peculiar situation that we are going to debate mainly about amendments to the Study Financing Act, while the bill itself does not change the law anymore. In any case, I would like to ask the Minister whether she agrees with me that it was not so neat to hide the increase in the fine on not handing in the annual card in the study funding Act in the BES islands. So we have a debate here today that is actually about the CDA and VVD amendments. They want to punish ex-students for the fact that the government and the NS do not have these systems in order. My group does not think that is appropriate. These people just graduated and haven't got it that wide, and then you're gonna bully them like that, when we all know that at most 10% of them are taking advantage of the O.V. year card. I say to the CDA: I hope you come up with more original ways to finance plans for the return of the basic grant than this plan to do about the backs of former students. I say to the VVD that I do not understand how the VVD can first be in favour of not raising the fine, and then in favour of increasing the fine. However, Mr Duisenberg will be able to explain that to all of us later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u3	I will not be tempted to discuss the loan system introduced by D66. I would like to ask Mr Van Meenen a question. What is the reason why Mr Van Meenen of D66 believes that highly educated students who continue to possess an I.V. card should not bear the real cost of this? I know D66 as a party that is right about labour market fraud or benefit fraud: we have to find out! If 10% of this is demonstrably abusing, isn't that a reason to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u4	There is also a fine, but as long as the government itself fails to inform students about the end of their annual card, we do not think it is appropriate to recover costs from students who are in good faith in it and who, of course, have not yet canceled their annual card.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u5	This is an interesting point. Now we have two cases. Mr Van Meenen says: public communication must be improved. I agree with him and I can tell him that I will table two motions on this subject, which will ensure that communication is in order from now on. At the same time, Mr Van Meenen is talking about a fine. However, we can see that the value of the card is higher than the so-called fine he is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u6	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u7	My question is whether Mr Van Meenen thinks it fair to other travellers that former students can continue to use their student travel product cheaper than a journey card, while those other travellers pay the full pound.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u8	What D66 finds unjust is that fines are being paid for something that is mainly due to the failure of the government itself. Apparently, the CDA doesn't have a problem with that, but we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u9	Nine out of ten students just put their cards off perfectly in time. In ResearchNed's research, they say that's because they just know you have to stop him yourself. They are well informed about this. Does Mr Van Meenen believe that the government has failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u10	I do think the government is failing. In many cases, i.e. 90%, where the card is not stopped in time, it is clear that this is due to communication errors and not to deliberate abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u11	ResearchNed gives a list of almost one page, with all the different communication moments and actually says that there is extensive communication: through several channels the students are alerted to this, students are usually informed by e-mail that a message is ready, the students receive a report from DUO twice and a subsequent notification they receive a month before the product has to be stopped. I can go on for a long time about what is being done, but Mr Van Meenen still says that students are poorly informed, while nine out of ten stop the card in good time and simply say that they know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u12	The fact that the government tells you there's a message waiting for you is like the bank that reports that there are messages waiting for you. That's not exactly an invitation to open those messages. Countless messages are being sent. What matters is that it is pointed out from different directions... is that you really get active and personal message and none of that happens. That's one way. However, D66's preference is that the card is simply stopped automatically. That should be possible in no 2016/2017, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u13	Do we have to conclude that the fact that 90% of the people comply with that law is a stupid coincidence, that those are people who see the light and who keep to the law and stop that thing? Or should we conclude that we are simply dealing here with cultural relativism in practice? That almost borders on racism, may I add. Because are these people really so stupid they don't see this, Mr. Van Meenen? Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u14	No, definitely not. They're not that stupid. What this has to do with racism doesn't make any sense to me. Apparently, the PVV always has to do so in a debate, because otherwise we have lived for nothing. Well, I can't answer that. I have tabled an amendment to ensure that if you do not use your O.V. product, you do not pay a fine either. That seems so fair. The problem is that it has been raised before, and it is not with the ex-students. The problem is with the government and the NS. The fact that it is still not possible to stop the product automatically or stop it online in 2016, almost 2017, is very strange. Let's just make sure the travel product stops automatically. Then we don't need this whole discussion about fines anymore. If that is not possible, we can at least see how much use someone has made of the product and whether or not they have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u15	This is very interesting. I agree with this. I will also come up with a motion that I would like to promote...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr Rog, you don't have to tell the interrupting microphone what motions you're about to make. You'll have to interrupt the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u17	I am interrupting Mr Van Meenen, so I say that I agree with him. But now we're improving communication. I find it amazing that Mr Van Meenen still seems to reject the amendment we are tabling. It states that, after the communication has improved, there will just be a fair fine after one month of at least the amount of the actual costs. Can Mr Van Meenen explain why he still rejects this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u18	Those are the travel expenses. I am tabling an amendment which states that if no costs have been incurred, so the product has not actually been used, then there will be no penalty. I'm suggesting that if you're not ready to stop it all online or automatically, you could look at the actual usage. So you're not going to charge a fine, you're just going to charge the use that was there. I think that's fair. That's really different from a fine that's the same for everyone, so regardless of whether you've cheated or acted entirely in good faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u19	I'm very curious about the reason for D66 to do this. So Mr Van Meenen now places a lot of additional administrative burdens on the party that is simply responsible for implementation. Students and former students are responsible for themselves, aren't they? In most cases, they know that well and take that responsibility. What has happened to Mr Van Meenen, which suddenly makes him turn those students away like a bunch of morons, like people who don't understand it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u20	I'm not doing that at all. For me, it is incomprehensible that there are a few parties here in the Chamber where students are wanted to be fined at all costs, including students who are not blamed for very poor communication from the government. This communication is the responsibility of the government, so ultimately we and Mr Rog's party too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year we had a discussion about whether or not to increase the fine on not stopping the public transport card. There's a fine and it's a big one. At the time, the media talked about alternatives and also about the current system. Mr Van Meenen has already explained how you could improve that system, even via online possibilities. But there was also a lack of information. ResearchNed's report, but also from signals we received earlier, showed very clearly that this leaves a lot to be desired and that it can be tighter, more personal and more targeted. At the request of my group, we postponed the debate on this at the time. We said then, before we draw any hard conclusions, let's see how that investigation can be done in an orderly manner. There was also an amendment tabled by the undersigned and my colleague, Mr Duisenberg, proposing not to allow that increase. I now formally withdraw this amendment because there is a letter of amendment which no longer talks about an increase in the fine. This is Amendment No 34331, No. 8. This amendment is therefore now superfluous. After all, the letter of amendment shows that the motivation has been listened to. The failure to stop the card in time has to do with all kinds of things. Only 10% of students who do not stop the card on time can be said to be strategic behaviour. Now we are looking at how this communication can be revised. The ISO and the LSVb are also involved. The system needs to be more customer-friendly. I know as a former student that the I.V. card used to be provided through the post office. That was all very clear. But nowadays you have to go to a station at the end of the O.V. card. There'll be no station in your congregation. So you have to go to a station to do an act there. Guys, it's 2016! I see the spokesmen of those old-fashioned parties are laughing right now, but this should be possible online, right? Shouldn't those spokesmen agree with me? But they're just suggesting that we impose a fine. Colleagues Rog and Duisenberg have tabled an amendment to double the fine for everyone. I do not see the justification for this, because the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Duisenberg also states that a person who has not used the card is fined. Then I'm thinking, why would you fined someone who couldn't possibly use the O.V. card? I ask the Minister whether we can see whether anyone has travelled or not. You're also almost wondering why when checking the tickets someone doesn't get a report from the conductor when he or she is a graduate and still has an O.V. card. In short: the system in 2016 needs to be much better. If we change the system, the fine will probably be completely unnecessary in the future. I am in favour of targeted communication, but it goes far too far to kick all students in the injury period of this cabinet period by doubling the fine. The June study also clearly shows that there is no need for this. We shall table two motions in the second term. One motion asks not to increase the fine. That is the opposite of the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Duisenberg. In the other motion we ask to see how we can introduce an alternative system in 2016. Guys, come on, it would be weird if students leaving abroad couldn't stop their O.V. card online, but go to some kind of loading post? That was once thought up by a few technicians, but they don't rule this country. So I refuse to accept that. Finally, a question. In the letter of 17 June, the Minister announced that he would agree with the student organisations on improving communication and to look at measures to tackle precisely the small part of the graduates who consciously have strategic behaviour in the absence of an end to the card. I ask the Minister about this and where it stands now. Did those calls take place? When can the Chamber expect anything? I repeat: we will never and never agree to this increase in fines, which is very poorly substantiated in the amendment and which does not do justice to the research that Mr Duisenberg has also asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u22	I understand that you have the amendment to item No. Eight withdraws?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u23	So that's the amendment of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr Mohandis and Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u25	Yes, that's the right amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u26	The Mohandis/Duisenberg amendment (Doc. 8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u27	I found it rather confusing, even so confusing, that I do not understand Mr Mohandis' conclusion. If he is consistent, he should abolish the fine altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u28	If we had a fantastic system, we could have. Now there is a heavy fine of almost €200. My proposal is: let us change the system and then talk about an increase in the fine for the group that deliberately does not stop the card. But Mr Duisenberg is all about it. He says: we are going to give the fine to everyone and if people have acted in good faith, then that will be our sausage. That is what I hear from Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr Mohanis has received the research he has asked for, but his conclusion leads to the continuation of a very inconsistent policy. In the past he advocated a step-by-step increase; I have here an article in which that is stated. That was very consistent. That is what Mr Rog and I are proposing. But now Mr Mohandis leaves the fine at €100. We propose to reduce the fine in the first month and increase it after that month. That is the trampled increase that Mr Mohandis himself advocated at the time. Now, I know, March 15th, he says, "I don't want a fine increase." Or be consistent with today's story and say: I don't want a fine at all, because I think it's so pathetic and those students can't do anything. That is nonsense: in most cases they are highly qualified graduates. Then come up with a proposal to withdraw the entire fine. Explain that to all taxpayers, because it is about public money. Or stick to the proposal for a step-by-step increase, which Mr Mohandis himself advocated earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u30	If we could introduce a stepped-up system that is aimed at the group that is demonstrably abusive, which is very difficult to control, unfortunately, I would be very interested in that. But you are also taking on the group of students who have shown no strategic behaviour. So I'm consistent. Your name was under the amendment, Mr Duisenberg, and not now. I have a very consistent line. I don't quite understand where you're going with this. I'm just trying to keep thinking very consistently. We've asked for an investigation. We didn't get that right. This shows that there is a group that says that this system needs to be changed; that is at least the conclusion that I draw from it. So I think that's the first step we have to take. If we're going to a kicked system, it's got to be aimed at that group that's deliberately abusing it. It should not be "everyone just a fine increase," because I think that is a form of "March 15th is close; let us be strict with all of them."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u31	I have the research that Mr Mohandis' minister had carried out with me. I read about a student who, after calling DUO a few times to ask if the fine he has to pay is really only €97 and if there really are no additional costs, keeps the DV card, which he has unjustly, to earn €200 a month. What is the argument for Mr Mohandis to legitimize this? How does he explain this to other public transport passengers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u32	That fine is substantial: it is rounded up almost €200. I do not think it is denied that this card is sometimes deliberately withdrawn, but it is about 10%. So the question is how to deal with this group most effectively. What you're proposing is not effective. In your amendment, you simply say very cheerfully or very seriously that this applies to everyone, including those who have not used the system. But as long as the system doesn't provide any insight into this, I think a fine increase is a very wrong start to solve the problem. Let's change the system. Let's make it possible to check out all kinds of things like online or remotely. If we do this carefully and enforce that fine, then we can end up targeting that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u33	I therefore note that the Labour Party and D66 believe that highly qualified students should continue to use their card after they have lost the right to that card, while other train passengers have to pay the full pound. I don't think I can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u34	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u35	Why does Mr Mohandis keep talking about a "fine"? It is about the real costs of civil aviation law, which other travellers also have to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u36	Because everyone's talking about a fine. If you want to rename that, you'll have another very semantic discussion. I do not share Mr Rog's conclusion. Nor can I conclude from what Mr Van Meenen said. The important thing is that you take a serious look at the system. There is a fine, which must be paid and students are highly educated, but that cannot be the only argument to sit back and think "let's double the fine." What the proposers should aim at, namely that this group is being tackled, is not achieved, because this is exactly what is happening to everyone. In that respect, I find the proposal you are making unfair. I come in my second term with two motions. One is about not raising the fine, contrary to what Mr Rog and Mr Duisenberg are proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr. Chairman. It will not have escaped your attention: the main point of discussion in this legislative proposal relates to the student card. On the one hand, it is clear: you have a right to travel free of charge, which is paid out of public funds, and if that stops after five years, you simply have to pay for your work just like everyone else. That's easy. It would be unfair if it weren't. On the other hand, I also understand that if you forget to stop your card and you get a fine of €97. You knew, but you forgot or you missed the messages. Why can't the map stop automatically, you think. But there are also students or ex-students who consciously pass their card, because it is cheaper to pay a fine of €97 than to pay for it themselves. Calculated abuse, I call it. I just want to think about how it works. Students get an O.V. card that allows them to travel all over the country. This card has a value of €340 per month. That's over $4,000 a year. So they get a free travel right at five years worth €20,000. Total public funding for students-ov amounts to between € 0.75 billion and € 1 billion. You can easily request the card from DUO. On the other hand, you stop the card again when your travel right expires. This is explained in detail. In addition, the student is then also informed in many other ways. Nine out of ten students say their travel product on time. So then it all works just fine as it's meant to be. The reason they almost all give up according to ResearchNed's research is: you just know that you have to cancel the travel product yourself. It is as simple as that, Mr Mohandis. There is also a group that does not stop the card in time. Half of this group still stops the card within a month. Then there is a last remaining group that allows the travel right to continue for free. Here the motive is in many cases calculating, strategic and financial. So I'm thinking, what to do with that fine? Because it doesn't work sufficiently preventively. It is the responsibility of the student to stop the travel product. That's clip-and-ready. It's all over the DUO site. Just as the Minister stated in the note on the report, it is basically that unjust possession of the student travel product is, by definition, undesirable. The simplest thing to do here is to take the solution that the Minister initially had in her legislative proposal. This is simply a very simple measure, namely increasing the fine from day one to €150. Because, according to the Minister, given the current level of this amount, it is too often worthwhile not to stop the travel product. The student organizations found this fine from the minister disproportionate. They wanted a kicked fine of €50 to €150, for example. Now that I've seen ResearchNed's research, I understand that feeling. That is why the VVD, together with the CDA, is now proposing a stepped fine. For the first month we have a certain understanding. We reduce the fine from €97 to €75. Then the fine goes up to €150, simply to prevent abuse. We thus mitigate the Minister's previous proposal, which sought to increase the fine from day one. With this we do justice to the principle that wrong possession is undesirable, but we also do justice to the feeling of students who had initially missed the deadline of stopping for a while and greatly sucks of that fine. However, the incentive against calculated abuse must come out as soon as possible. Finally, even better information is, of course, always a good idea. It would be the most beautiful thing if the card stops completely automatically and stops too late completely belongs to the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u38	I remember a quote from Mr Duisenberg earlier this year when all kinds of colleagues were questioned about this. Then I'm talking about raising the other fine. He suggested we try other things first. That was about what he said. I note that he actually says that these other things are important, but first we have to double the fine and then do the other things. I think that's a wrong order. The amendment also states the phrase "regardless of whether the right to travel has been exercised'. Does he consider it justified to impose a double fine on former students, i.e. a doubling of what it is now, whereas they have not exercised the right to travel? Is that justified, given his earlier statements this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u39	I said the same thing I'm saying earlier this year. I will state the reason for tabling this amendment. I said earlier this year that I am not in principle opposed to an increase in the fine. If you have the responsibility to turn that thing in or stop, you just have to pay a fine. Earlier this year, I found the reasoning, the way the minister did it, a shot shot of hail and not entirely thoughtful and sufficiently substantiated. She wanted to increase it by €150 from day one. That is why I was very pleased with the research requested by Mr Mohandis, which is now before us. This shows that there are several reasons for this. That is also the reason why I am now saying that we can make a more nuanced proposal, whereby you will initially pay a lower fine than in our previous proposal. We propose that the fine be reduced in the first month. That's where I'll have coulance or understanding for the fact that you forgot. The starting point is that the cliff and ready is the responsibility of the higher-educated student to stop that card. That is also the answer to Mr Mohandis' question. That is why this is a reasonable proposal. This is the step-by-step proposal that the students initially asked for and Mr Mohandis was also in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u40	I think students have asked for a kicked-off proposal. That sounds interesting, but it's not aimed at the group that deliberately takes advantage of it. That could be arranged, for example, to see who does and who doesn't use that card. We're not that far; I admit that. The systems will not allow this in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u41	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u42	My question is whether Mr Duisenberg thinks it is justified that the proposal should apply to all, across the board. Mr Duisenberg calls it a step-by-step proposal. I don't think that's fair. I think it's unfair. He can't say that students or student organisations want that too, because they really wanted something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u43	The student organisations have said that they want a kicked-off proposal. They want €50 in the first month and then go to €150. That's what they said. We now come at €75. That was for everyone, too. I think it is right that it should be for everyone, because I think two things are very important here. First of all, the responsibility lies with the student. Whether it's conscious or not conscious, it's a highly-educated student. I just prepped it. You've had a free travel right for five years, so at the expense of all of us, €4,000 a year. Did you get that? Very nice. However, there is one thing on the other side, and that is the responsibility of the highly educated student to stop that thing. Everyone knows where to find that device, so it's not that hard. The second thing that I think is very important, and that is crucial, is that, as far as I am concerned, the fine will be set so high tomorrow that it really does not pay any more for all those calculating students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr. Chairman. I confine myself to the most obvious part of this law. The SP welcomes the fact that, at the request of the Chamber and the student associations, the Minister has carried out an investigation into the reasons why the public health card is not stopped by everyone on time. We think it's even better that she doesn't want to go through with the fine increase right now. Of course, a former student has to take responsibility, but not everyone does. But there is still work to be done first by DUO and the educational institutions. After that, a former student can only be effectively addressed. The report shows that a majority of former students did not know that the product should have been stopped. That seems to be quite understandable. The distinction between the cessation of student funding and the student travel product is not clear, the researchers noted. According to them, there is uncertainty about the actual graduation date. The official end date of the study is not always clear and is sometimes confused with the date of graduation. This is particularly true if there is a longer period of time or if the graduation date is determined retroactively. The educational institution does pass the graduation certificate on to DUO, but not to the student in question. Also in the MBO they suffer from that. Then, to his stupid surprise, the former student will suddenly find a fine on the mat. Data on the travel product may also be misleading. If an OV-chipkaart is blocked or expired, it is believed that the student travel product has been automatically discontinued. I assume that the Minister agrees that the former student is entitled to good and, above all, unambiguous information, but it is often lacking. Does the Minister agree with the SP Group? If so, what measures will it take to improve the provision of information? The question remains why the student card cannot be automatically discontinued when a student graduate. Then all these fines are unnecessary anyway. After graduation, can the O.V. card not come on some sort of blacklist or become unusable, as the researchers suggested? That would be a good solution for the SP Group. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. Has she had any contact with them yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr. Chairman. I admit that the Minister has opted for a somewhat reckless introduction by imposing a fine of €150 immediately from the first month. It is a good thing that Mr Mohandis has asked for an inquiry. Many interesting things have emerged from that research, among other things that the majority of students turn in the card properly on time. 90% of students also know that they have to stop the card themselves. 10% of students deliberately do not deliver the card to benefit from it. Research shows that a higher fine would also affect the number of students who would stop the student card in time. A higher fine therefore leads to an earlier cessation. It is crystal clear that there are former students who show calculative behavior. You can't blame them for that either. There was a student who asked whether the fine that is now €97 is really the only cost item and who subsequently did not stop his I.V. card, in order to continue to make advantageous use of it, but completely unjust, because he was no longer a student. In that wonderful research that Mr Mohandis has produced, another student charged that he is now working and receiving a travel allowance, but that he earns €200 per month thanks to not stopping the student card. That's great for the former student involved. There are parties in this Chamber who want to facilitate that calculating abuse. These parties argue in other debates that fraud should not pay. That's what D66 does, for example, in Social Affairs. These parties want to step up their investigation. These parties are now plagued by election fever and are now trying to get into the flattery of students, who they are actually putting away as vulnerable people and should be protected because they would not understand that they have a responsibility themselves. However, the investigation shows that they know exactly what their responsibility is. And luckily, because they're all highly educated people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u46	We know that the CDA does not like travel products for students. In the meantime, it's obvious. Mr Rog is very concerned about the 10% that might keep the student travel product on purpose. Why does Mr Rog not care about the 90% that gets a fine but because of the unclear information from DUO is not aware that this product must have been surrendered for a certain period of time? Well, then he should be worried about that, too, shouldn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u47	I do. Before Mrs Siderius called me to order, I have already announced in the interruption that I will draw attention to this in two motions together with Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u48	Then it would be nice if Mr Rog here would tell us what they are going to do for that 90%. What exactly is the proposal? Will Mr Rog ensure that the travel product is automatically stopped for all students? It seems to me that we will no longer have to talk about fines at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u49	That is exactly what is meant by one of the two motions I shall be tabling. I have reason to suspect that the Minister will say that this will not work, otherwise she would have taken care of it herself, but that is indeed the main intention we should have. In response to Mrs Siderius's interruption, I can certainly announce that my other motion relates to a point that I believe students have rightly raised, namely that they want to be informed sufficiently and in time. In particular, in the case of the first fine, they are not now informed without delay. I'd like to change that. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. According to our proposal, students are warned twice. DUO informs them that the travel product must be stopped. The amendment tabled by Mr Duisenberg and myself also aims to reduce the fine for the first two periods of two weeks. During that period they will be informed once again that the fine is in place and that they will have to surrender the travel product. If they do not, Mrs Siderius' own responsibility will apply. After those two two-week periods, i.e. from the third period, the fine goes to the level of actual costs. We are talking about a fine here, but we are simply charging the costs to the person who wrongly owns the product.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u50	Suppose a student can prove beyond doubt that he or she did not travel after the study was completed. You can just log in these days and you can see what you've done. That's what students can do. Is the CDA willing to say that the student doesn't have to pay the fine? That wouldn't be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u51	It is nice that Mrs Siderius links this to the statement that that would not be fair, but I have news for Mrs Siderius. We're in this house making rules. The rule that we make now is that students get a travel product that ends when the study is finished. We ensure that DUO reports this to the student on time and clearly. If they make a mistake, they will be granted a grace period and pay a very limited amount, i.e. half of the actual costs. This even happens twice, namely twice for two weeks. Then he or she will have to pay the actual costs. I don't know what's not fair about that. The rule is: you turn him in and then you charge the actual costs. I don't see what's not fair about that. Old students may best continue to use a travel right which they no longer have under the actual costs of the Labour Party and D66. These parties would be able to explain to the Netherlands why all other Dutch people are allowed to pay the full pound for public transport, but of course highly educated twenty-somethings are kept out of the wind. The student organisations of course do not want to lose this achievement. I get that. However, those entitled to benefits who find a job would also prefer to retain their benefit. At the same time, I believe that student organisations have a point about communication. I just said it when I was interrupting, but say it again now. We read that DUO was reading this in Mr Mohandis's research, sometimes using unclear introductory rules, and only late in the information that students were fined for wrongly possessing that O-Travel product. The CDA prefers to say that I say this to Mrs Siderius.... that the student card automatically stops after the right to this card expires. I will table a motion to that effect together with Mr Duisenberg. In addition, we believe that communication can be improved if automatic cessation is not possible. The CDA and VVD amendments combined with these motions provide a balanced approach to preventing calculated abuse. That is also a task of the government!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u52	The comparison with beneficiaries does not apply, because it was precisely the Labour Party and D66 who made a very constructive proposal to see how extra income is possible without fines. It would be nice if the CDA were to embrace this, but that's another discussion. The equation doesn't work. Mr Rog is mainly talking about dealing with those calculating students. That is at the heart of his speech. In response, I say: why is he targeting the students who can indicate that they have not traveled? Mr Rog says in his amendment: whether or not the right to travel has been exercised. In doing so, he undermines his own argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u53	I don't think it's nice if I repeat the reason. I have already done so in interruption and in my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u54	Let me get this straight. Your amendment focuses on everyone. In the amendment, you say that having the card, having it in the inside pocket, without having used it, without having checked in, should also be fined. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u55	I will say it again: we have rules in the Netherlands. Students are entitled to an O.V. travel right for five years; that is a very long time. At some point, DUO will tell the student that the travel right will cease. 90% of students then pay attention, know and deliver the card. Then there's a small part that doesn't do that and of that there's another part that doesn't, calculated, consciously do this. Mr Duisenberg and I want to meet the part of that group that does not act consciously and reduce the fine during the first month. By the way, 50% of the former students who turn in the card too late with our proposal will be better off than with that proposal from the left-wing parties who want to let it all blow and get into the flattering of students. Our amendment will make 50% of the 'to-be-sent' countries better off. They return the card in the first month and pay a lower fine in that first month than in the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u56	When I look at that research, I really don't understand the latter. This is another assumption. It looks at the first month, without saying that in the second month the fine is simply doubled. Mr Rog says he is so proud of the right to travel. I will hold him to it in the years to come to guarantee the right to travel for all students in the Netherlands. They will be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u57	We have now come to the end...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u58	Allow me to make one more comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u59	I didn't hear another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u60	No, but Mr Mohandis is a little campaigning here and I know a few of them myself. Mr. Mohandis, a basic grant is more than a limitation of O.V. law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u61	Now we have come to the end of the first term of office. I see the Minister can start her first term immediately. I now give the floor to our Minister for Education and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr. Chairman. Let us note that the student card is a great asset and that the students themselves think it is a good thing. They fought hard for the maintenance of this card in the framework of the study advance. It is also important to note that we have to try to recover the costs from people who use such a card improperly or are consciously out of calculation behavior. Such a thing applies to students as well as to other citizens, I would not like to make any misunderstandings about it. I also think that the suggestion that we should not tackle students, but other citizens, is wrong. It is my starting point for action to be taken against students who use the card improperly. That was also my starting point for the original proposal. We had a debate on this at the beginning. I suggested that the Chamber raise the fine. Through an amendment on the initiative of the two coalition groups, in this case by Mr Mohandis and Mr Duisenberg, the Chamber indicated that this would be unjustified and too soon. Then I had ResearchNed do research. This has shown that the problem lies not only with students who deliberately use this card in the wrong way, but also with the lack of information. I care about that. I believe that students should be given clear information and that they should also be able to be aware of the need to do something. Most students do that neatly, which was also rightly recalled. However, a 10% group does not. Earlier, the discussion was about how we can ensure that the good do not suffer from the evil. I think that is at the heart of the debate. I listened very carefully to the Chamber. Bearing in mind the Mohandis/Duisenberg amendment and what the Chamber has put forward earlier and further, and bearing in mind the results of ResearchNed's research, I have concluded that I have to do the following: I must, together with DUO, ensure that the provision of information to students is improved before we increase the fine. That's what I'm doing now; nothing more and nothing less. I am therefore open to further steps, if we can better distinguish the good from the bad. I am convinced that what I am doing now is fully in line with Mr Mohandis and Mr Duisenberg's amendment. I note that students are now also informed about the need to stop in different ways and at different times. How are students informed now? Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Siderius asked. Many Members of Parliament, including Mr Mohandis, asked whether it could not be simpler and whether we could not inform students more precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u63	I'd like to ask the Minister a very simple question. How long will it take to improve this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u64	That's gonna take a while, 'cause that's pretty complicated. That was actually the essence of the part that I wanted to tell you about right now. Here we are asked why we cannot simply ensure that an OV card is automatically stopped at the end of the study period. I understand that suggestion very well. I fully agree with the Chamber that this would be the most logical option. Then nothing can ever happen again. The second option is to improve the information. That is what we are doing, but unfortunately that is not as simple as we might think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u65	May the Minister first give me that piece of information... I just want to hear why it's not easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u66	I'd love to. If you sit down again, the Minister will move on. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u67	I wanted to tell you how we're informing students now. If the end date of the training is known to DUO, the student shall be informed in October or November of the previous year of the obligation to stop the travel product in good time. In addition, students receive another message a month before the travel product has to be stopped. Students who stop their study funding via My DUO are also immediately informed that the travel product must be stopped at a pick-up machine. Mr Mohandis spoke about this. This is repeated in the confirmation email of My DUO who then receive students. DUO checks monthly that the student is still registered. If the student is not registered and has not stopped the student travel product in time, the student receives a message from DUO that advises him to stop the travel product. In addition to this personal coverage, the need for timely cessation of the travel product is brought to the attention of students in other ways. For example, the way in which the travel product can be stopped is clearly explained on the website of DUO and on the website www.studentreisproduct.nl. In addition, 260,000 students receive a newsletter four times a year which pays attention to this. DUO also sends a monthly message via Twitter to the DUO followers, calling for the travel product to be stopped in time at a pick-up machine. Finally, student organisations regularly inform their supporters of this and public transport companies have included information on the obligation to stop the travel product in good time on their websites and in their leaflets. So we've been doing a lot of things. Students must be able to read this information in many ways. The big problem is that most of those messages are sent to My DUO. They come to students indirectly. They only hear that they must go to My DUO and do not immediately receive a message stating that they must act now. That's what I'd love to do. However, that is not possible, because I have to deal with all kinds of regulations on privacy sensitivity. I can't just do that. So it's not as simple as we might think. To complete the story, I'm also going into progress. If there is an actual claim, there will be a decision stating the origin of the debt, its reason and how to prevent a higher debt. If the student still receives student funding, the claim will be settled. If there are no more payments, a payment request will be sent. If there's no response, there's a memory. If there is once again no response, a warning will follow. In the event of an increase in debt, this cycle starts over and over again. As part of the information campaign, Mr Van Meenen asked whether the message could not be a little less general and whether the student could not simply get a message via e-mail, whatsapp, text or whatever, stating: "You have to do something now, otherwise you will get a fine." I'd say I could do that now. I indicated in my letter of June that I am working to improve communication. This communication, as I say to Mr Duisenberg, is currently being worked with DUO, transporters and student organisations. Part of this is to see if a notification message can be less common. At present, privacy laws are still preventing this. We cannot just send students an e-mail or text message: beware, you will get a fine if you do nothing now. Moreover, it is not the case that a student suddenly receives a claim. Before it is done and even if the claim has already been imposed, the student is repeatedly informed. So we have a lot of ways to inform students. Mr Mohandis asked whether or not we are aware of this in the case of students who do not cancel the card; one does not cancel the card because the information is not adequate; the other may knowingly not be able to see if they have travelled with their card. No, DUO can't see the data itself. If I could, it would be easier. Then you could find out more easily whether a former student really shows calculating treaty to abuse the O.V. card. If DUO does want to access these data, they must be requested individually. We are talking about 100,000 students a year and DUO should follow these students every two weeks for a whole year. What is even more important is that we would not consider it desirable either, because the government would then follow very closely the travel behaviour of a huge group of citizens. Let us not forget that the students are more than 30% of the travelers. The students are therefore crucial for the survival of all OPT parties. Due to all privacy legislation and advice, it would not be possible to make such a large proportion of travellers subject to a very far-reaching data check. Several members, including Mr Mohandis, Mr Van Meenen, Mr Rog and Mrs Siderius, have asked why there can be no automatic termination. That is a crucial question. I told you, that's the absolute preferred option. It would be the simplest thing to do if we were able to say with the O.V. parties: if you quit your study, that would automatically lead to the end of the O.V. card. Unfortunately, this cannot be done for technical reasons. I wish I could! I would very much like to talk to the O.V. parties about that. Here too, we are talking about a huge group of travellers. In fact, the public transport operators estimate that 160,000 students each year have the right to use the public transport card. That's a huge number. It is now the case that unjust possession of student travel rights ends after 12 months with the end of the public transport card. After that time, the card comes on the so-called black list of the transporters. 10% of former students who do not terminate their travel rights in due course keep this in possession for the full 12 months. There are so many of them. The system of the black list is technically very complex. This is also used by public transport operators to exclude and invalidate stolen cards or cards which are fraudulently used. If a card landed on the black list is held against a post, the subscription that is wrongly held will be removed. That's how it works now. According to transport operators, the system is not originally intended to remove student travel rights from maps of former students. That's too bad. You could say: if we had thought it up better with each other then, we might have been a lot further. We can do a lot with technology, but we can't do everything. We must be very careful not to make systems completely crazy either. I have experience of this as the minister responsible for DUO. I know how complicated that is. I am glad that DUO is doing very well, that we are among the best performers. And I want to keep it that way. I don't want to mess up the whole public transport either. In short, I think this is the most desirable option in principle. I'd really like it to be possible, too. That is what we must strive for. But what I don't want right now is that as long as we can't do that and as long as we don't have that information in order 100%, the good will suffer the bad. We should not be distracted in that respect. I also think that we should not, in this respect, be distracted from what is at stake: a good provision for students. We have to keep pointing out to students that when they graduate, they have to turn in their I.V. card. We need to improve information on this. As far as I am concerned, once this information has been further improved, there is also the possibility of more differentiation, and therefore of applying a higher fine. I think that is also in line with the request made by the Chamber more than six months ago. At that time, therefore, we are going to increase the fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u68	I continue to wonder at the fact that apparently it is not possible to stop an OS student travel product automatically, while the Minister and the entire Chamber want it to. But that is the reality with which I have to live. We're just gonna file that motion. The Minister says that information will be improved. 90% already know, so that's all right. Still, it's gonna get even better. When will the Minister have that in order? Would it then help if we modified our amendment in such a way as to link it to a real date on which the Minister should have her information in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u69	Allow me, then, to begin by discussing the amendments. Then I have answered everything, including in the field of technology, and perhaps we can reach an overall conclusion. I come to speak on the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Van Meenen. With this amendment, the author wants to ensure that students are not fined for the first month. It also provides for an increase in the number of working days for clarity to 20. I must advise against this amendment. Students are themselves responsible for canceling their travel product. They are pointed out through different channels and in different ways. If they do not stop their student travel product in time, there will be a claim. In fact, students can now stay in possession of a student travel product for up to five working days longer than they are entitled to without getting a claim. So I do not see anything to increase the deadline, also because it would have financial consequences. It also deviates from the principle of principle that I have previously exchanged with the Chamber. Students just have to stop their cards when they're not a student anymore. That's what I want to focus my energy on. I want to focus on improving the information position and then, if we can, I want to make a distinction between those who are in good faith and those who are really deliberately abusing that card. In the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Van Meenen it is arranged that students do not pay a fine if they do not use the travel product after the travel right has been terminated. I would advise against that amendment. If you are entitled to a student travel product, you can load it on your OV-chipkaart. If you are no longer entitled, you simply have to remove the travel product from your OV card. It's as simple as that. And if you don't do that in time, you have to pay a claim as a student. By looking at whether or not students use that card, we are only further away from the path and away from the clear distinction that improper use should ultimately be punished. I agree with Mr Duisenberg and Mr Rog. In my view, it is also Mr Mohandis's commitment that unfair use should ultimately be punished. There are limits to the extent to which we can accommodate students. Apart from that, it would also be very complicated in practice. It would be hard to carry out. DUO must then, before it can impose a claim, check whether a student is still travelling with the student travel product every two weeks for more than 100,000 students for a whole year. If we were to check something for so many students, I would rather follow the previous option, namely to see if you could put them on that blacklist. I have already said that this is not possible. I really don't think this is a good option. I shall now turn to the Rog/Duisenberg amendment to item No. 13. I also advise against this amendment. We have discussed this with each other before, also on the basis of Amendment No Mohandis/Duisenberg. At that time the Chamber said that information is not yet in order, so that we do not have to increase it now. At that time, the Chamber said that it was undesirable to introduce this increase now. I have tried to listen to honour and conscience there. I have had that research carried out, from which we can draw the conclusion that less than one in every ten students exhibits strategic behavior. In other cases, even better communication and information is possible. This information is now being worked on. There have been talks with DUO, transporters and student organisations. Representatives of deans in MBO and higher education have also been asked to make proposals for improvement. On the basis of these talks, actions are now being developed. At the moment when communication has actually improved, I am prepared to engage with the student organisations, with the aim of preventing strategic behaviour. Then the increase of the claim as a real option appears. Then I am not fundamentally opposed to a stabbing, in the vein of: we give you two weeks or two weeks to communicate properly. However, I do not want to anticipate this. I was asked when this would happen. Well, I know that we do not yet have enough in order, because it is a very complex process. It could be the end of 2017. I would like to keep to the right order, namely that the Chamber allows me to further improve information and communication, which we are already working on. Then, at the time we have done so, I would be happy to make a proposal to the Chamber to make a clearer distinction between the group that is in good faith and the group that uses the student card for the wrong reasons. abused. This could very well include an increase in the fee for the use of that card.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u70	At the beginning of her speech, the Minister repeatedly talked about students' own responsibility for turning in that card and then went all the way along with the pathetic cult of the Labour Party and D66. I don't understand. What is the reason why the Minister accepts that 16,000 former students can continue to take advantage of this card on an annual basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u71	I have to say, I'm a little surprised at this accusation. I did so partly on the basis of the debate I had with the Chamber earlier. It clearly states that the amount of the fine must be maintained and that the increase in the fine must be waived: see Amendment No Mohandis/Duisenberg. We said at the time: let us first see what it is like. I am, in some respects, quite shocked by ResearchNed's research, because this indicated that more than my original story was, there was still some lack of information. I recognize that equestrianly. I think the government should get its affairs in order before we include students who are in good faith in the increase in the fine. As soon as we're in order, I'm willing to take action. See also my original bill. Nor are we that far apart in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u72	If only the Minister had been so careful in communicating with the introduction of the loan system, but that aside. The Minister says that she thinks she will have this done on 1 January 2018, but that she does not yet want to talk about a law in which that can be arranged. It does not want to set that amendment with a new date, so that students can prepare themselves for it. I believe that the Minister will explain this once again, especially in relation to the responsibility of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u73	Among other things, I learned from ResearchNed's report that reality is resilient and I hope we will have this in order by the end of 2017, but I can't guarantee it. We are talking about legislation here. I'd like to do things in the right order. I think I should first say to the Chamber that it is time and that we have it in order. Then it is not at all so complicated to settle that in a legislative proposal. You don't need a law of your own. By the way, we included the "O' card part in the BES study funding bill. Mr Van Meenen says that this is wrong. I do not think so, because we have been very explicit and transparent about this. We do that all the time. We also include parts in the adaptation of the WHW. That could be very good here, too. That is not something for which we need to go through a whole legislative process with years of procedures. If we, your Chamber and I, find together that the moment is when we have everything in order and that the government can make a good and sharp distinction between those who are too good and those who are too bad faith, then it really doesn't take much time to settle that in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u74	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u75	But it has to be in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr Duisenberg, would I really like to move on to the second term, or do you still have a very urgent interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u77	DUO has already easily changed the introductory wording of the mail you receive. It just says in that e-mail: there is a payment request for you. It's as simple as that. I therefore ask the Minister once again how difficult it is to improve this information and to agree here that it is simply ready before 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u78	I understand that it seems simple, but I am dealing with information that I may or may not pass on for privacy reasons and that DUO may or may not pass on. So it's not just a matter of changing something in an e-mail from DUO. We also need to make sure that we do it properly, so that we do not run into privacy rules. If we do it carelessly, then we are all farther away from home. There has to be only one student who appeals against it and then there can be nothing at all. It's no different. We must take due account of what is lawful and what is not in the legislation and information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u79	If I listen to the Minister in this way, her conclusion, as far as I am concerned, is wrong, but I would like to explain to him that you must leave the fine as it is. Her previous proposal of that €150 on day one was perhaps a bit short. That was also why I said that you should not do that, because that is too short in turn and not well substantiated. In view of this report, I do not understand at all why the Minister maintains this €100. Why does it knowingly, knowingly and knowingly, maintain abuse of that card by students who have been educated and who have had a free travel right for five years? What's the base for that $100? Why not €50, €25, why not €200? That €150 might still have a good reason. It might have been rational, because those were the real costs. But I just don't get that $100.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u80	I think what Mr Duisenberg is doing is really a little lame. I can now bring forward his amendment very faintly once again. The amendment in part No. Mr Mohandis and Mr Duisenberg said that an increase to €150 per half month should be waived. Why was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u81	I have a point of order, Mr President. A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u82	Because the distinction between those who are in good faith and those who are in bad faith was not sharp. So what we are doing now is making sure that we can make that distinction sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u83	I'll let the Minister finish her sentence, Mr Duisenberg. Listen up, colleagues. Let me say in general that it's five to eight. I know everyone's tired and we've had a busy education week. So I really want to move on to the second term as soon as possible. I now give the floor to Mr Duisenberg for a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u84	Actually, I just want to respond to this. It was just a very stupid proposal the minister made. I'm sorry, I can't help it. That is why the amendment has been tabled. Then the minister may have come up with other reasons, but it was just a silly proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u85	Okay. If we're gonna talk this way, I'm gonna step in anyway. I ask the Minister whether she has already come to the end of her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u86	I can go into this again, but I do not think that this is a significant contribution to the quality of the debate. I also think that it is not very well-founded and well-founded in terms of content, I have to say. I have seen Mr Duisenberg better. His reasoning is generally well founded. Let's not make it any bigger than it is. I'm very, very open to a table. I'm very open to an increase in the fine. If I can make a clearer distinction between those who now state that they have not been given enough information and that as such they experience it as a large group, which is actually simply in good faith and those who consciously abuse that card, I will not hesitate, with Mr Duisenberg, with Mr Rog and I also think with others in the Chamber, to ask for a higher remuneration for it. Again, students are no better, are no different and are certainly not more pathetic than other citizens. They must therefore simply pay, as well as everyone else, when it comes to the cost of an O.V. card. Then we shall once again agree on a very large part of the central reasoning, when I see the non-verbal movements in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u87	Oh, thank God. Thank you very much, Minister. Then we move on to the second term. From the side of the Chamber, I am the first to give the floor to Mr Mohandis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u88	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed reply. I have two motions, as I have announced before. Given the time, I'll read them to you right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research conducted by ResearchNed on behalf of the government found that only 10% of former students who do not end the student travel product or do so too late for strategic (financial) reasons;]] [[Considering that, on the basis of the high number of former students not knowingly and without intention stopping the travel product, the government is right to waive this substantial increase, which would unduly and extra affect many former students, on top of the already existing fine of €97 per half calendar month;]] [[considers that efforts should first be made to eliminate the reasons why former students stop their travel product too late, such as the use of improved information and a simple (online) method to stop the travel product;]] [[points out that there should be no increase in the fine and that solutions should first be developed to make students more aware and informed and, in so doing, to use simplification of the end of the travel product,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mohandis, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Grashoff, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34331-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u89	The subject of my second motion has already been discussed in the debate. That motion is about the possibility of ending the O.V. card online. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research by ResearchNed on behalf of the government indicates that lack of knowledge is the reason for most students not to stop the travel product or not to stop it in time;]] [[Noting that the Minister in her letter of 17 June. in response to the report, indicated that it would refrain from increasing the fine for improper possession of the student travel product and to focus more on communication and information;]] [[Considers that this is in the right order, first focusing on information and communication and then on how to continue to combat "strategic behaviour" by a small group of 10% of former students;]] [[Considers that alternative technical methods should also be considered in order to facilitate the cessation of the travel product, e.g. through the online or automatic termination of the student travel product if the right to travel expires;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss this matter with the relevant public transport companies and to facilitate the cessation of the travel product and to inform the Court of Justice in spring 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Mohandis, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Grashoff, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34331-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr. Chairman. How nice it would be if we didn't have to have this debate because the card would end automatically and it would all go automatically in 2016. That'd be great. But I think this is a fairly fundamental debate, also because it is simply about public resources. So let's zoom out for a second. As the Minister said, students aren't pathetic. I think we all agree on that. These are the highly educated people of the Netherlands. They are educated at the highest level. That's what the Minister defends every day. I think we can say here that these students really can handle a lot. They are free of charge for five years of travel duty of €4,000 per year. Of these students, 90% are on time with the strike, but 10% are unable to do so. The minister said earlier that the latter has to do with laxity. She didn't say that during this debate, but she did say that in the media before. For another part, it just has to do with deliberate abuse. The Minister's first proposal, which was almost a year ago, was 'unwise'; I say to Parliament. However, the proposal now before us may be even more ill-advised. I do not understand why the Minister, the PvdA, D66 and the SP simply continue to allow the abuse in question with this proposal to maintain the fine, which is simply not justified. I welcome the efforts being made to further improve the provision of information. I also hear that we are open to a statement and that there is broad support for it. Finally, I would like to propose, including my fellow Members, that we include in our amendment that this will enter into force on a date to be specified when the information is in order, for example on 1 January 2018 or as much earlier as possible. I hope that we can do justice to both sides of this story. I hope that we will be able to ensure that the abuse is no longer allowed by parties on the left side of the Chamber. The taxpayer has to pay for this abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u91	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Siderius. I see that she does not give up her speaking time in the second term. I call Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mr. Chairman. I don't think the Netherlands understands anything. We are talking here in The Hague about a so-called 'fine', when we really want to charge students the real costs of an O.V. travel right that they have wrongly. The Minister has exhausted himself in his reply, for which he thanked, on the way in which DUO is already communicating with students. The discussion now seems to focus on something very strange. The Minister suddenly makes a distinction between students who, in good faith, do not turn in the card and students who, in bad faith, do not hand in the card. However, we are talking about the right to have a student travel product or the wrong to have a student travel product. If former students are no longer entitled to the student travel product, I just want them to have the bill presented. I do not understand the attitude of D66 and the Labour Party, but so be it. I have two motions, which I have tabled together with Mr Duisenberg. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas part of the students do not cease the student card because they find the communication of DUO on the termination of the right to the card unclear and have the first fine reported;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage DUO to communicate in a clear and distinctive manner the imminent end of the right to use the card, as well as former students, if they are fined for improper possession of an OS student card, to inform without delay,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014, 60,000 students paid a fine of at least €97 for not stopping their student card in time;]] [[noting that DUO is aware of each student when the right to study funding is terminated and that this right is linked to the right to an O.V. student card;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with interested parties such as DUO and the NS, to stop the student card automatically if the right to do so has been terminated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Duisenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34331-16]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Duisenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34331-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u93	If automatic cessation is not possible, I am very much in favour of the amendment I tabled together with Mr Duisenberg. Otherwise we as a Chamber legitimize improper, calculating use of the OV card by 10% of former students. If I understood the Minister correctly that this is a group of 160,000 former students, it is 16,000 former students. I'd think it'd be a lot of fun if this house legitimized abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u94	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. I'll walk by the motions. In the motion Mohandis c.s. in piece No. 14 points out that it is first necessary to work on solutions to raise awareness and information among students, while also focusing on simplifying the termination of the travel product. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. This is in line with what I said earlier, namely that it is very important that this communication is indeed improved. The applicants state that there should be no increase in the fine or, formally, in the recovery of the costs of the O.V. product and that this solution should first be worked on. That's in line with what I indicated. So I could say that this is policy support. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. I really believe that recovery should be made when we have improved it, but I read that in the motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u96	Let me be clear, so that I can give my group good advice: what exactly is the Minister going to change as a result of this ruling by the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u97	Like I said, it's policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u98	So it's an unnecessary motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u99	Well, I don't think she's entirely unnecessary, because the place we're standing right now is marked in it. The motion also sets out the order of things, which is different from what is indicated in the amendments. I have to admit that, in my opinion, it is not very far apart, but there is a different emphasis in this. That is why I see this motion as a support for policy and, in this case, leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion Mohandis c.s. in piece No. 15 The Government is invited to discuss alternatives to facilitate the cessation of the travel product and to inform the Court of Justice in spring 2017. I like this motion, but I do have a problem with "spring 2017." I said earlier in an interrupting debate with Mr Rog and Mr Duisenberg that I hope that we will have everything in order by the end of 2017, but unfortunately not everything we would like is technically feasible. We're working on that as fast as we can, but that's not one-two-three solved. We need to discuss how to do this, not only with DUO, but also with the OB parties, and there are several. Spring 2017 is really not feasible, but summer 2017 would be feasible. With the remark that "spring of 2017" can be made "summer of 2017," I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u100	Summer of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u101	I can live with that remark. We are concerned with the result and the care. With this addition I can and can live the rest of the proposers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u102	So, if I understand you correctly, would you like to change the motion here and make it "in the summer of 2017"? For then that is settled. Is that right? I see that this is the case. Then we'll do it for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u103	The motion Mohandis c.s. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research by ResearchNed on behalf of the government indicates that lack of knowledge is the reason for most students not to stop the travel product or not to stop it in time;]] [[Noting that the Minister in her letter of 17 June. in response to the report, indicated that it would refrain from increasing the fine for improper possession of the student travel product and to focus more on communication and information;]] [[Considers that this is in the right order, first focusing on information and communication and then on how to continue to combat "strategic behaviour" by a small group of 10% of former students;]] [[Considers that alternative technical methods should also be considered in order to facilitate the cessation of the travel product, e.g. through the online or automatic termination of the student travel product if the right to travel expires;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss this matter with the relevant public transport companies and to facilitate the cessation of the travel product and to inform the Court of Justice in the summer of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She gets no, was no. 15 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u104	The Rog/Duisenberg motion in part No. 16 contains parts of the Mohandis c.s. motion. in piece No. 14, but this motion actually calls on the government to encourage DUO to communicate in a clear and distinctive way about the further end of the right to use the card and to inform students about its improper possession. I also see this motion as a support for policy, but I really cannot find any more emphasis here than what is already in my letter. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 17 the Government is invited, in consultation with interested parties, to conclude an automatic termination of the student card if the right to do so has been terminated. On this motion, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. This is also support for policies, but there is also an additional incentive to come to the specific solution of automatic discontinuation. I would totally love it if the Chamber would be able to make the motion in part no. 15 and the motion in part No. 17 to be put together. In fact, they are very close together. Then I can promise the Chamber that I will also inform her about the automatic shutdown in the summer of 2017. Mr Duisenberg announced that he might be prepared to amend the amendment. I find it complicated. It is an amendment that calls for the law to be amended. There may be a date to be determined, but that does mean that you can no longer get out of it. I want to do things in order as I have indicated here. That mostly corresponds to the motion in part No. 14 by Mr Mohandis and others Again, if we agree at the end of 2017 that it is justified to do it then, then it is not really complicated, given all the above, to do it with one of the laws relating to study funding or.q. higher education in the short term. That is what I really prefer to do rather than change the law now, because it sends out the wrong signals. In this context, I have a more positive appreciation of Mr Mohandis' motion. Again, I see that the Chamber and I are not very far apart from each other in the end. They're accent differences. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-10.u105	The votes on the amendments, the motions and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday.
