ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance. Today we begin with the first term of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the speakers in the Chamber for their input and many questions and for the positive comments they have made on the state of the budget. Some have also spoken positive words about the state of the Dutch economy. At the request of the President, let me first explain how the speech is structured. I shall begin with the state of play in the Dutch economy, which includes a review of the past few years. There's a lot of debate about that. Secondly, I refer to income and purchasing power. Thirdly, I refer to the budget itself. Next, I come to Europe and the ECB policy. Finally, I will deal with the financial sector. So it is five blocks, and at the request of the President, I will keep the pace. Firstly, it is good to look back on the past few years, in which there has been good cooperation with various groups, including the opposition, in order to put the budget in order. That has always been criticised, and this criticism has not been silenced, as we have seen. The question was whether the method chosen was economically the best. The discussion between economists about when it is a good time to cut back and when it is a good time to stimulate is not new and has been going on for years. There are a few things on which a certain degree of consensus has emerged. In the longer term, the supply side determines growth. In the short term, demand drop can lead to an economy not using its full capacity. At that time, stimulating policies of the government or of the central bank can be useful. Policy is hard to time. If you decide to intensify, it often takes a long time, through political decision-making and the actual implementation of the policy, before the stimulus reaches the economy. That again calls for automatic stabilisation. What is and will continue to be the subject of much discussion is the effectiveness of public stimulus in different circumstances. The character of the Netherlands and of the Dutch economy also plays a major role. I refer to an open or closed economy, but also to circumstances such as high or low interest rates, a healthy or weak financial sector and high or low public debt. As always, there is a lot of discussion among economists about whether low growth is now a result of structural developments on the supply side or much more of under-spending, i.e. developments on the demand side of the economy. The economists disagree on this, too. Looking back to 2008, we have to note that there has been a great deal of public stimulus at the start of the crisis. Of course, the particular circumstance was that several crises were stacking together. Firstly, the financial crisis, which immediately exposed the weaknesses in the Dutch economy. This gave the crisis a typical Dutch character on some parts. The euro crisis followed later. Two crises shortly after each other, reinforced by weaknesses that the Netherlands already had. There was initially an incentive policy. The deficit increased in one year from a surplus in 2008 to a deficit of 5.5% in 2009 and 5% in 2010. This stimulating policy has taken years, thanks to automatic mechanisms such as lower tax expenditure and higher benefits during that period. The long balance sheets in the Dutch economy The Dutch households have a lot of pension assets and a lot of mortgage debt... lead to a higher spending effect in the Netherlands than elsewhere. The Netherlands, as an open economy, was once again very sensitive to the decline in world trade. At this stage, the incentive measures are only partly combined with reforms that should have taken place much earlier. Several Members have referred to this. But in 2009, the increase in the AOW age was announced. Between this period and the euro crisis that followed, there was a short revival of the economy, but after the euro crisis, the risk premiums for the Netherlands naturally increased, especially when the Rutte I cabinet fell in April 2012. In the meantime, the public debt had risen from 45% to 70% of GDP. The main factor for this was the deficits and the financing of the rescue of the banks. The deficits were the biggest factor, and that is stimulating policy. Reforms had to be implemented. Those reforms should have taken place earlier, but the shock resistance of the Netherlands turned out to be very limited. It was also necessary, I think, that this is an important effect that is often not sufficiently reflected in economic models to regain confidence. This is primarily about the confidence of the financial markets, which finance public debt, and then about the confidence of investors and consumers. Delaying further reforms or putting off ever-increasing debts for us does not reduce confidence in the economy. I think you can see that in the Netherlands, but also in other European countries. Where the sour apple has been bitten, confidence returns faster and economic recovery is faster. Overall, between 2012 and 2015, the budget deficit was on average 2.5%. The automatic stabilisers did their job then. The CPB also shows in an economic study that the overall impact of the government on GDP and employment was strongly positive during that period. In the years after 2012, the impact of public policy was still positive on the overall economy but less strong than in the previous period. Over the period 2009 to 2015, there was a positive impact of public policies of 0.6% per year on our GDP and a depressing effect of 0.4% per year on unemployment. This shows that we have put the budget in a sensible and very gradual way, that postponement of reforms or budgetary measures would certainly not have reduced confidence in the economy and that we are now in a better position to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Merkies, I would like the Minister to conclude this block first. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	Where are we now? The estimated economic growth for this year is 1.7% and the CPB also predicts 1.7% growth for 2017. The unemployment rate is now 5.8% and there have never been so many jobs in the Netherlands, i.e. more than 10 million. The EMU balance will improve to -0.5% in 2017. That is almost a percentage point better than was expected when the coalition agreement was concluded. That's important because I don't think we're here yet. At the beginning of the crisis, the Netherlands and the Dutch economy proved to be far from shockproof. Not only did we have to deal with this shock from the outside, but also with the fact that that shock exposed our own vulnerability and our own problems. It means that we need to build up more shock resistance towards the future. We do that by reducing the deficit further. We are doing the same by further reducing the public debt. It has been reduced to 63% of our gross domestic product and will fall further to 62% next year. The prospects are also good. The economy is growing slightly faster in the coming years than what is called potential growth. Unemployment is also falling further. That's good news. I do think that we should join forces with the idea that growth rates in the future will no longer reach pre-crisis levels. In the reflections on "where are we now?" Too often I hear the remark that we are not back at the pre-crisis level. Perhaps we should adjust our expectations in this respect. Part of the high pre-crisis growth was driven by credit and contributed to the long-term balance sheets and vulnerability that became so acute in the crisis. Looking ahead, we are faced with technological developments, with an ageing population and with lower growth rates in our main marketing areas, namely Europe, where the same is happening in the Netherlands: the same technological developments and the same ageing trends. Our potential growth will be lower than in the period behind us. This does not mean that we cannot further improve the structural possibilities, the earning capacity of the Netherlands. Many of the reforms we have implemented contribute to this. In the coming years, our focus will have to remain on how to improve the economy and the potential growth of our economy. At least right now we have sustainable public finances. This means that, if current policies continue and without major changes in circumstances, we will be able, even in the longer term, to continue to finance our main public care, education and pension systems without major new interventions or cuts. That is a very important moment. It has been a very long time since that was the case. Some Members have asked, looking ahead to budgetary policy: how to proceed? The Study Group on Budget Space, an official study group which independently advises in preparation for the next cabinet formation, recommends that the budgetary space available in the medium term should be restored to a surplus, the debt should not be used further, but should be reserved for the future economic downturn; in other words, to build buffers. Given the space available, automatic stabilisers can in that case do their job. This is also a good time to return to Mr Van der Vlies, who addressed Professor Dijkgraaf as a 'young boy' or 'young boy' who was the word, I believe, when it came to the timing of interventions. If we want the academic wisdom of the professor to prevail over political practice in The Hague, then the coming years are the right time. If we continue prudent fiscal policy in the coming years and do not immediately convert any surplus into additional expenditure or unfocused burden relief, we will build buffers and in the future we will be able to protect that sustainability surplus. In other words, we must not intervene so big again at the wrong time. It was about the timing of policies. Mr Omtzigt asked, looking back, whether the government did not intervene hard at the beginning of the cabinet period. That question is hard to answer. You should take back the entire political history of the various interventions, starting with Rutte I and its fall after the PVV had left the Catshuis with its tail between the legs. Then there came a spring agreement with another package. You could look at the type of measures in that package. Shortly after the start of Rutte II an additional 6 billion was needed. So you cannot say that a certain part of this accumulation of measures has come too soon or too soon. I think we've done it gradually, but the route was definitely the right one. Then the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has no substantive assessment as to whether the cuts or the measures are good or bad. Well, actually, I do. He is generally positive about where we are now in terms of the budget. However, the Court of Auditors asks whether we know enough about the effects of the major interventions, about the measures. That's a lot of them. I believe that the Court of Auditors came up with 500 measures, or 486 because a few have not gone through. Mr Dijkgraaf rightly pointed out that it is very difficult to see this multitude of measures isolated and to say what their economic impact has now been. That's really hard. When implementing measures, we naturally use CPB overdrafts. In addition, we make many policy assessments, which do not always take advantage of each individual measure. That is actually the point of the Court of Auditors. However, it can be seen that, for the longer term, the CPB has found, inter alia, that the drop in demand due to the crisis has not led to a permanent negative impact on the growth capacity of the Netherlands. This kind of statement has therefore been made in general terms, but it has not been consistent with the individual 486 measures. I think we should talk to the Court of Auditors and the CPB to see to what extent and in what examples this could be useful. It must make sense. It should not be a theoretical exercise with many ifs and buts, because it is so difficult to isolate all other economic effects. After all, we must immediately conclude that we have done the research, but that we do not really know that much yet. So I want to talk to the Court of Auditors and the CPB to see what would be useful and possible here. Perhaps it is appropriate to consider whether we could evaluate some of the larger measures, possibly even those that are still going on. The Compatibility Act now states that all departments must indicate what they expect in terms of efficiency and effectiveness when adapting policies to Parliament. As far as social or economic measures are concerned, they must therefore provide the best possible basis for social and economic impacts. This enables the departments and thus also the Chamber to try to monitor the impact during the implementation of the policy. I'm gonna say it carefully. I propose that I inform the Chamber of the results of the discussions with the Court of Auditors and the CPB on the possibility of monitoring and monitoring individual measures. I'm still in my first block, that about the state of the economy. Questions have been asked about the development of unemployment, which is still falling too slowly in our view. According to the CPB, this year we would have an unemployment rate of 6.2% and that would also apply for next year. So that's a stop. However, the latest CBS figures show that unemployment continues to fall and that it reached 5.8% in August. The number of jobs is still increasing. Employment growth is 0.7% in 2017. So more people find a job. At the same time, more people are entering the labour market. The labour force is increasing by 0.7% in 2017 and is expected to reach 0.3% in 2016. It appears, therefore, that the number of people joining or going to work is still growing and that this growth will be even greater next year than this year. That is a positive development. Mr Grashoff specifically asked the reasons for the fall in the CPB's expectations, as well as whether there was an active policy to prevent this. As has been said, employment is rising by 1% this year and is expected to rise by 0.7% next year. It contains the expected effects of the Brexit. For this purpose, the CPB has estimated a growth effect of 0.4 percentage points, isolated from the Brexit. I'm not in a position to argue with the CPB about that. Whether and at what point the Brexit will turn out negative, and how big the effect is, we don't know, but there is a reasonableness in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	No, but as a courtesy, I always stop. I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	I suggest you finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	What are we doing next year about labour market policy? From 2017 onwards, more money will be allocated to personalised services and personal support for job seekers by the UWV. From 2017, the low-income advantage will also start. This is a wage subsidy for low-income people, making it more attractive for employers to hire these people. Furthermore, the cabinet has made agreements with the social partners, specifically on tackling long-term unemployment among 50-plussers. Finally, the cabinet addresses the labour market bottlenecks in seasonal work. This is about the chain determination in the Work and Security Act: the financial risk of a long-term sick worker. Employers will be compensated for the transition allowance in the event of dismissal due to long-term incapacity for work. These measures also come into this Chamber in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	I promised Mr Merkies that I would give him the floor first, but I see that Mr Van Dijck is very impatient.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	I'd like to make an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	Yesterday we had a debate and we were obstructed in our statements by allowing three interruptions. After the dinner break, the chairman had a bit of flexibility, but before dinner break there was a lot of fuss about the interruptions. I hope that the President will not shut us down again today, at the second most important debate in this Chamber, to the Minister or the Secretary of State. I'd be very sorry to hear that, because it's about something. Previously, the Financial Reviews were almost as important as the Political Reviews, but nowadays they are muffled away in the evening hours. Three sentences are written about it in the newspapers. Apparently, the Financial Reviews have slipped to the level of a VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	What is your proposal, Mr Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	My proposal is that you should be more flexible and generous in your presidency, so that we can at least have our say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	You have plenty of room to do that, but the debate must be a little structured. At least that's my bet. We could have also reduced the number of interruptions, but I did not. I suggest we do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	I would like to support Mr Van Dijck. The President limited the interruptions to after each block, but the five blocks contain a lot of sub-topics. Three blocks ago, the Brexit came by. You'll have to wait a long time if you want to talk about that. It is better for the debate if we do not have to wait until the end of each block. That also makes much more sense for following the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	I'm fine with that. It just shouldn't be the case that everyone interrupts after every sentence. A lot of questions have been asked that should also be addressed. We must try to find a balance between a good debate on the one hand and answering the questions raised in the first period on the other. Are we going to hold the debate now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	Not everyone in every block has the same number of interruptions. I'd have wanted to make a few interruptions in this block, actually. It will be very difficult if we indeed have to wait until the end of an entire block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	All right, interrupt one! The Minister mentioned a number of figures on growth and employment a long time ago. It's about the effects of government policy. We asked those questions. The strange thing is that the ministers do not mention the figures mentioned by the CPB for a moment. So these are the 0.7% per year less growth as a result of public policy, which would result in 34 billion losses and the 0.5% per year that it would cost in employment, which would increase to 350 000 jobs. Those numbers come from multiple parties. We've had Bas Jacobs' calculations and ING's. All these calculations point in the same direction as those of the CPB. Why doesn't the Minister mention these figures? Does he deny these numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'm not denying those numbers at all. If you put or take out 40 or 50 billion in an economic model, it has significant effects in growth and employment. But it's not a static situation. The Netherlands was not in a static situation, not in 2012, not in 2013 and not in the years before. It was an extremely dynamic situation in which confidence in the euro area and also in the Netherlands fell extremely rapidly, with the deficit rising rapidly, with the government debt rising from 45% to 70% in a short time and losing our triple A rating. Now some of you will say that this was all because of the outside world and that nothing had to happen in the Netherlands. I heard Mr Van Dijck literally say: the cabinet should not have done anything. I don't have the illusion that I'm gonna convince him otherwise. I am convinced that the budget deficit had gone much further, that we had not regained our triple A status and that we would probably have been further downgraded if we had done nothing. Mr Merkies of the SP laughs about it, but the SP does not seem to have much sense of the aspect of confidence in the economy. Let me give an example to support the argument of the economic model. Fortunately, a majority in the Chamber found it necessary to address the mortgage interest deduction, which contributed to the blown-up housing market in the Netherlands and its vulnerability. If you'd followed the CPB model and watched it sec, you wouldn't have. Because an intervention in the mortgage interest rate deduction in the CPB model showed a loss of growth and jobs. Modelly, that's all true. However, the SP knew like no other that the mortgage interest deduction was not only very debatable in terms of social justice, but also contributed to a disturbance of the housing market. Everyone in the Netherlands knew that the bloated house prices in the Netherlands would go down at some point. Referring to Mr Van Dijck, I am sure that the housing market would have collapsed if we had done nothing. So just taking the model and saying that we shouldn't have done it then isn't an answer to the question where we would have been. The housing market was fundamentally unhealthy. Even if you hadn't done it, according to the CPB's economic model, the problem in the housing market wouldn't have been gone and we would have had that crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	That is a long answer, but the Minister acknowledges the figures. His argument is that we had to do it because of the confidence effect. I think that's special. Then I'd like to talk about that trust. The Minister calls it "consumer confidence." If you make sure that the rents go up hugely, if you increase VAT enormously, if you increase your own risk, are those the ways in which consumers should gain confidence? I don't see that. As far as the financial markets are concerned, when we lost the triple A status, it was not the case that we suddenly had to pay a lot more interest. It just stayed the same. Even in that very long 25% increase in debt due to the banking crisis, interest rates fell. The impact of these measures would be much less on public debt. So don't say that we would suddenly have to pay very high interest on our bonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	I do not speak very many people in the Netherlands who believe that, but Mr Merkies seems to think it would have been better if we had not taken the measures and if we had not implemented the reforms at the points where our economy turned out to be so vulnerable and we had reduced the budget deficit. This happened in the early years of the crisis. At that time there was a policy as Mr Merkies now defends, namely stimulating policy. By the way, the SP was also very critical at the time. If we had maintained that for that long period of time, because there was also a second crisis, the budget and the public debt would have gone a long way. What happened to interest rates? I can't predict it. I do know, however, that countries in the euro area have also followed this strategy and have gradually begun to tackle the budget so that confidence has returned. You can look at it modelly, but then you don't always make the right decisions and you certainly don't know where you were right now. You can actually look at it. Then you look at countries that have dealt with it less reformatively and less decisively. Here comes the familiar expression "do something with the French stroke," which ING also used. In France, the budget has been put in order much less and the reforms have hardly been implemented. We often talk about it in the Chamber: France really is much less good for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	Madam President, you are killing the debate. We were just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yeah, but it can't be endless either, and more people want to interrupt, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	It takes a long time because of the long answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	But it's also caused by long interruptions. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	My interruption goes to the same point, so perhaps Mr Merkies will be served by my questions. The point is that we are also standing here for a piece of self-reflection. Maybe I shouldn't even blame this minister, because it was Minister De Jager who went through the hallways in 2012 to raise taxes by 12 billion for 2013. And that was just stupid. All studies show that we should not have done so, including those of CPB, IMF, ING and Bas Jacobs. After all, what happened in 2013? I can take this minister to that year. Maybe he forgot, because he's only looking at where we are now and at the future, but in 2013 unemployment went up by 200,000 people through a package of 12 billion tax increases and 35,000 companies went bankrupt. The rents went up by 13%. The houses of 1.5 million people were flooded. And now there are 6.5 million pensions that are under water. In other words, the turnoff that this minister and this cabinet took in 2012 and 2013 was simply a superprocyclical, stupid action, motivated by fear of the capital market.... we would lose that triple A status... and fear of a fine from Brussels, because Brussels said that the deficit should be below 3% within a year. That is the reality, that is the facts, and this Minister must be enough to say: Mr Van Dijck, you are right, that was a wrong turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	Let's go back in time. The PVV supported Rutte I's policy. I thought that party had some sort of tolerating role in that coalition. Rutte I took measures worth 18 billion. Then Rutte I fell, because the PVV squeaked out at the moment it became difficult. Then we got the Spring Agreement before, I think I'll take a look at Mr Koolmees's $12 billion. That 12 billion has also been incorporated into the base path. Then parties started making election programs. I thought the PVV also accepted that basic path and accepted that the 12 billion was also needed. Then, in my opinion, the PVV added more than 7 billion to its electoral programme. So the PVV package alone during that period amounts to 37 billion. Mr Van Dijck can argue that the cabinet has done more. That's absolutely true. He could also say that the PVV would have done it differently. That's true, too. But don't let him come up with the idea that intervention and putting the budget in order were wrong policies. I have followed very closely what the PVV has done. The PVV had planned very large interventions. The same applies to other parties. In 2012, we all included ourselves in election programme 10 to 15 billion, the PVV slightly less, but after accepting the previous measures as a basic path. Forgive the technique, Mr President; my point is that the PVV also had at least 37 billion in its plans during the same period. So don't come up with the accusation that the cabinet shouldn't have done anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	The Minister should take a closer look at our electoral programme, because we have reversed the entire Kunduz agreement. We have reversed almost every measure. Except for one or two small measures, we have passed the entire Kunduz agreement through the shredder, because Kunduz was an historic mistake. That turns out to be the moment you have to rewrite 200,000 unemployed people. And is it so weird that in 2012 the PVV didn't want to sign the kamikaze agreement of 200,000 unemployed and 35,000 bankruptcies? That's what Kunduz and this cabinet did after that! My point is that the Minister must also have the courage to look back and learn lessons for the future. That's what I'm saying to the VVD, because he didn't understand it either. If you're in the deepest of a recession and you're kicking the brakes, with 13 billion in tax increases, every economist understands that, even my 16-year-old son, you're throwing oil on the fire. That's very disastrous. The CPB says it now. The ING says so. Bas Jacobs says so. The IMF says so. They all say they're sorry, except for this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	Again, ING, Bas Jacobs and the CPB do not agree with the PVV. Rutte I's measures for a total of 18 billion were supported by the PVV, even more so, the PVV was part of that coalition. That happened at the bottom of the crisis. The moment the PVV ran away, the country was horrible. And yes, then the parties here took their responsibilities. My party was not part of that, also because of the content of the package. You can argue whether it was the right measures, but when the PVV ran away and the country was terribly in favour, parties here in the Chamber took their responsibility by taking a package of measures to secure the Dutch economy and the financial situation. We don't buy that much for the explanations afterwards from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	I will certainly not say that the cabinet should have done nothing, in case there could have been any misunderstanding. I am also very aware that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has been co-responsible for the Spring Agreement, including the VAT increase. Now is the question raised by the Court of Auditors, which appears in a number of analyses: have we done all these things as wisely as we should have done? Not only to be able to look back, not to be able to look back, but also for the future, I think it is important that we actually succeed and deepen our understanding of this. I am curious, among other things, whether the VAT increase we also supported in the Spring Agreement has been sensible. I think it is important to know that regardless of political colour and such. I also think it is important to know whether the method of limiting the mortgage interest rate deduction, which we have also wholeheartedly supported, was good and important. I would like to see a distinction between measures which I think are, and expect to be, more meaningful, for example, because they have a stronger effect on the long term and sustainability, and measures which may have been too short. I suspect that gross cuts in the public sector that have cost a lot of jobs could be considerably worse. I want to know, but not to blackmail this cabinet or this minister. At least that's what I want. I hear the Minister say: I do want to be consulted with the Court of Auditors. Fortunately, that sounds a little better than the way in which other analyses have been put away, which I didn't think was wise. Does the Minister say in so many words: yes, I embrace the conclusions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors? It does not say that we have to investigate everything to the point. It talks about the most important measures. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a list of the major measures which are indeed worthy of evaluation in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	This was a very long interruption at the point where I thought I had just made a commitment. I will consult with the Court of Auditors and the Central Planning Office to see if we can do this. Afterwards, it's always a little more difficult. This is simply impossible for 486 measures, but we will see whether it is possible and useful in a number of measures, and then learn from them again. I promised, and I repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	I thank the Minister for his commitment. In this context, I had also asked whether this could be shared in concrete terms with the Chamber. I also want to know what we're going to investigate. Maybe the Minister will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	I had already promised the Chamber that I would inform her of the outcome of those talks, but I would like to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	Then I come to the discussion about the years to come and the point I raised about the level of investment. Does the Minister share my concern about that? It's like this. The cork of our economy continues to float thanks to exports. The fact that this open economy is mainly in the whole export story is also a sensitive issue. At the same time, the importance of domestic investment is decreasing, both in homes and in businesses. Does the Minister agree with me that this is not in itself a good thing? Can the Minister indicate in more concrete terms how cabinet policy could stimulate investment levels? And is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr Grashoff also asked a question about it. He referred to the graph on page 15, which shows how economic growth is composed and what the driving forces behind economic recovery are. The interesting thing is that the economic recovery is now wide. It is indeed the result of exports and investments, but it is also the result of domestic demand. And at least next year, it will be the result of public spending. It is therefore wide, which also makes it more sustainable and less vulnerable. This question will remain strong again next year, but a little further in the future, that question will be somewhat flattering. However, then there is also a new cabinet and other measures can be taken. The same applies to investments. Mr Grashoff was right to see that. In 2015 and 2016, there was catch-up investments, delayed investments that are now loosening up. The Dutch business community is taking a break from the retail sector and a few other sectors are heavily financed. It will therefore partly depend on the expectations of investing and the optimism about it. Domestic demand is strong, so that could trigger further investment. I shall come back to this later because others have asked for it in concrete terms before the end of the year with proposals for a financing institution. It is necessary in parts, i.e. not throughout the economy, to enable further investment. Our main focus is on detachment of private investment, which makes it possible to achieve more impact with a small role of the government. So that is very specific, very specific, which we are putting forward before the end of the year. I'll get back to you in a minute. I have been asked to say a little more about that, but that will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	I almost agree with everything the Minister said in his look back, and I also agree with the need to intervene in bad times. However, there are two images that fight each other. The one picture is that of the minister, that the role of the government has been largely positive throughout the period from 2009 to now, even strongly positive until 2012 and then slightly less positive but positive. The other picture is that of Mr Merkies, among others, that the austerity packages have had considerable negative effects. Those images are kind of colliding. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	It could be both true. We've spent a year in, a year out of normal deficits. Thus, according to the Central Planning Bureau, the government has taken extra debt to keep the economy going. At the same time, the government has pushed down its expenditures, which have continued to rise on many fronts. Think of healthcare expenditure, which is still growing, but much less than originally thought. That adds up to nearly 50 billion. If the government hadn't done that, would the growth have been greater? The simple answer to that question, also in the direction of Mr Merkies, is: yes. But where would we have been now? The deficits had continued to grow. The debt would have gone much further. Reforms would not have been implemented, at least if it had been up to the SP and PVV. Structural problems and vulnerabilities in our economy would have simply persisted. Then we would have had another debate with each other. It would then be asked: when are these measures going to come? We would also have had another debate on investment, to which Mr Grashoff asked. These things determine whether companies invest or consume citizens and how they look to the future. If they expect a very large account to be drawn up or if a future cabinet still has to carry out very large, far-reaching reforms, then investment and expenditure will be postponed. We would have been in a very different economic situation at the moment. You can see that in the countries that have postponed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	I totally agree with that. The Millions note contains a nice figure, figure 3.5.10, on the development of all public expenditure. It shows that expenditure on care, social security and education is constantly increasing. So there is actually 'less more': there has been cuts in relation to the path that is only rising. That is the analysis that is not always reflected in the austerity analysis. It only looks at what has gone off, not what has been added in the intervening years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	This leads me to say that the debate should also be more often about the composition of public expenditure. We often talk about "something to it" or "something to it," always the last piece, but on the whole we should invest a lot more, for example in education, research and science. This may require some adjustments in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	I come to the second part: income development and purchasing power. One of the pillars of government policy is "fair sharing." So it is precisely when you take such drastic measures and gradually put the budget in order that you always have to look at how that is going to work. The cabinet has sent in year in, year out for that. Last year it was 900 million. This year we have shifted to 1.2 billion, repaired to ensure that purchasing power is fairly distributed among groups. This requires a great deal of active intervention. And yet you can ask the question: but what happens to income differences, regardless of government policy? All kinds of approaches are possible. In any case, Mr Merkies asked me if this could be further investigated by the CPB, in order to objectify it. The Minister for Social Affairs is currently working, in cooperation with the CPB, on a review of the income policy pursued, indicating the income trends of the various groups and separately indicating the effects of government policy. He analyses that in that piece, which comes to the Chamber for the consideration of the Social Affairs budget. As mentioned above, the CPB is involved. The CPB estimates, looking forward, the development of the median static purchasing power. I believe that Mr Merkies has asked a question about this too. The CPB estimates the development of that static purchasing power in the coming period, from 2018 to 2021, at zero. "Static" means that we assume that households do not actually change, either in composition, in terms of employment or in terms of other major changes. You can see that in the static readings. Why does that purchasing power remain at zero? I think that question was asked, too. This has to do with the estimation of contract wage increases. The CPB is windowing it very low. I personally hope that the unions will manage to pull out a little more than that. Pensioners also have to deal with the possibility of limiting or not indexing pensions. That's also what you see in it. Moreover, it is up to future Cabinets, as we have done, to change it by means of policies or to increase the cake and, if necessary, to redistribute it. Of course, you can watch ex post. For that, the gini coefficient calculations are interesting. Between 2012 and... What was the last number again? Let me take a look at Mr Nijboer. I believe the last figure was 2014. Between 2012 and 2014, the gini improved. Mr Merkies has also asked why the CBS-realisation figures are not yet available. There's always a delay in that. I can't speed that up. Mr Grashoff has asked whether I can recognise that the figures of income inequality introduced by GroenLinks are objectively correct. Maybe we should go back to the Friday before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	It's up to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	I thought you hadn't finished your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	I wanted to switch to Mr Grashoff's questions, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	All right, I'll give Mr Merkies the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	I didn't get a full answer to my question. Actually, my question was repeated. It was about the power inequality. We're stuck with numbers from a few years ago. The last figure is from 2013. That's when the power inequality went up pretty good. From then on, we don't know. Then, of course, it is very difficult to debate policy here. We do have actual GDP figures, purchasing power and so on. It must therefore be possible to obtain more up-to-date figures of the power inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	I cannot force CBS to produce figures earlier, but Mr Merkies is right in saying that the figures up to 2014 that are available show that capital inequality has increased from the beginning of the crisis to 2013. The inequality has increased. This is mainly due to the fall in house prices. On average, these are an important asset for Dutch families. In it you see the power inequality increasing. If you take out that drop in property value, you can see that the power inequality has remained about the same. The good news is that the housing market is picking up again in the last year of which we have figures, 2014. So the increase in income inequality also came to a halt. So purely the effect of the decline in the value of housing in the Netherlands explains the increased capital inequality until 2013.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	The Minister is now bringing in figures from 2014, and we do not yet have them. So I don't know if he has any figures we don't have yet. Of course, it makes sense to ask the CBS, and the Minister can very easily say that the CBS is autonomous. It's just that we're getting those numbers, or from the CBS, or from others, and we're looking into whether that's possible. I have one more question about purchasing power. I understand that the purchasing power of recent years is being looked at in cooperation with the CPB. Does that happen on the basis of those four income groups? Because it happens sometimes that it is promised and then quite different groups are used. Does it just happen for the four income groups that are known?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	I thought it was just standard households; I'm just looking at my officials, see if anyone nods on that. Yeah, there's nodding. It's the standard household. So they're always the same, defined groups. For this purpose, it shows what purchasing power development has been year by year by group. The last column shows the impact of government policy. I thought we had already given the table in the written answers. But the analysis of this, which is much more extensive, is given to the Chamber of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	That was the power inequality that Mr Merkies had asked a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	I have two different questions about purchasing power. I'll try to ask the questions separately. My first question is that I would like to know if there is an agreement. I saw this morning in Pension Pro that there seems to be no agreement on the ABP premiums. What is the risk that the entire wage area reserved by the government, and more, will be eaten by an increase in ABP premiums, because the pension fund has fallen into very heavy weather?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	This point has not been raised in the first term of the Chamber, so I improvise now. There's no agreement. It is up to the ABP itself to decide on this and, I believe, to determine the ABP premium by November at the latest. I cannot answer that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	Can we then hear in good time what the risks are? This can also be done in the second term or at a slightly later date. If the current scheme is maintained, does this mean that the state's contribution as an employer can simply increase by 1 or 2 billion euros? Because those are the amounts we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	I'm gonna say again that I'm doing this out of my head. Those amounts are way too high. Of course there are risks. Because if contributions go up, they are also borne by the government as an employer. But it's really too early to speculate about that already. However, it is not a problem of 1 or 2 billion in the public sector. Before this is going to lead a life of its own and I'm going to read back those amounts in the paper tomorrow, I'm going to have to contradict this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	Then I'd like to hear what it's all about. My second question is about purchasing power repair for pensioners. I do not know if the Secretary of State will deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	That's what they said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	I hope to answer all the questions that have been asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	That is the intention, the chairman says. I think I responded to statements made by Mr Klaver in particular on Friday before Prinsjesdag. He presented in the media a proposal by GroenLinks and the SP on purchasing power. Both my statements and those of Mr Klaver were rather sharp. He said that in recent years the cabinet has chosen to give the highest incomes the most. Now you can blame the Cabinet for everything, but not this. This is just demonstrably incorrect. We have repaired it year in and year out to ensure that the purchasing power plates would look as balanced as possible. So what could Mr Klaver have been aiming for? He also said on the same day that 2.5 billion of the 5 billion package went to the highest incomes. That would be a kind of interpretation of his earlier statement that the money has all gone to the highest incomes. I didn't really understand that either. In the 5 billion package there is a disk extension in the third disk. By the way, it costs 800 million, not 2.5 billion. Moreover, it already benefits incomes of around €55,000. Those are not the highest incomes, but certainly not the lowest. The vast majority of that package has indeed gone to the bottom of the labour market. I thought that GroenLinks could also objectively establish that. I therefore do not understand why GroenLinks in the media says that 2.5 billion out of 5 billion has gone to the highest income, because that is really wrong. In addition, figures were presented adding up medians. Anyway, things like that can happen. All this was the reason for me to react rather sharply. I have said: if we enter into the debate on the basis of these figures, that is obviously not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	At the heart of the argument was that income inequality has increased. You can find everything from a plan that GroenLinks and the SP have presented about it and I can also comment on that. However, the key issue was whether income disparities have increased or decreased. Those income disparities have increased. We have also stood up for the General Political Reviews, where the Minister himself had found that the CPB had confirmed those figures. For the lowest incomes below 175% of the statutory minimum wage, this is 4.3% and above the 500% statutory minimum wage is 7.2%. If Mr Klaver has said that the highest incomes received the most, then it is in any case that the low incomes have benefited less. This is explained in more detail in the difference between workers and non-workers. On the basis of a combination of figures you can also see that the difference is to a large extent among the non-working people. In my view, it has been a deliberate choice of the cabinet not to allow non-working people to benefit from it or less. That is at the heart of our criticism of this cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	I repeat that the statements made by the Group Chairman of the Green Left on Friday for the Financial Reviews were not correct and that he also adjusted his figures between Friday and Tuesday. Then the question is whether the figures he presented in the General Political Reviews are correct. These figures show a static median purchasing power development. Those figures are in themselves correct. Hence the stamp of the CPB. But that does not mean that inequality has increased. This was the subject of the debate which Mr Grashoff had with Mr Nijboer in the first term. This was about how to determine whether income inequality has actually increased or decreased over a longer period of time. That's why you have the gini coefficient. At least he'll give us an indication of that. I repeat once again that the measures taken by the Cabinet year in and year out by August were precisely aimed at repairing and restoring. See this year's large purchasing power package, which for the most part goes to older people and to inactive people, people with benefits, to ensure that they too come up to 1 or 1.1. With the $5 billion package, we've done something else. We have a strong focus on the bottom of the labour market to get people to work and to reduce the tax burden on labour for that part of the labour market. I thought that was an objective that would also support GroenLinks, but that is a bit of a discussion about Mrs Halsema's Green Left or Mr Klaver's Green Left. I know GroenLinks as a party that is very involved in that bottom of the labour market. It's about getting people out of benefits back to work. We have taken measures that are strongly targeted at people at the bottom of the labour market. This 5 billion has largely been spent on people with very small wages, but on people with a wage, people who are at work. Only single parents who go to work have improved during this cabinet period plus 19. That's a very conscious choice. GroenLinks cannot agree with this, because it is felt that benefits should also be increased by 19. It is possible, but that in itself has nothing to do with a social income picture. Then GroenLinks simply says: we do not want the underside of the labour market in the Netherlands to function better, that the tax burden on that part of the labour market is reduced. I'm sorry to hear that. That is a new position from GroenLinks. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	No, because in that sense we are consistent in previous years. We have also contributed to and welcomed measures to reduce the tax burden on the underside of the working group. The charts presented to us last year in the Tax Plan showed a wonderful bond, which shows that workers were improving from low to high percentage points and the benefit recipients were not or very little. That's just clip-and-ready to see again. Indeed, the biggest blow of the past four years has been made in 2016. At that time, these differences were the most magnified. It was desirable to reduce these differences again, just now that it is possible. And now the cabinet doesn't choose to do that, and that's the difference between the government's approach and ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	I do not think we need to repeat the arguments over and over again. We're at the same point. The cabinet has repaired time and time again and has made sure that the bottom also has a net income picture. See this year's package. See the plus of 1.1 for the bottom. And yes, the 5 billion package also had an important policy objective, namely lifting the bottom of the labour market to get people to work. That's mostly what happened. It is precisely for this reason that I found Mr Klaver's statements about the 5 billion package really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	It is a question of whether the pain that is being suffered is being distributed fairly. My problem is that all Dutch years in, years out of poverty. Studies simply show that purchasing power has stopped from 2000. GDP has increased, but the citizens of this country, workers, beneficiaries and pensioners, do not benefit from it. It's just the companies and the government that benefit, because people have the same amount of money in their pockets as they did 15 years ago. The disposable income doesn't advance a millimeter. The Minister may come with sweeteners of a tenner here and €15 there and the message that everyone should be happy for another year, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	The question is: when will this purchasing power of the people really be restored? When are people really going to benefit from GDP growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	It may have escaped Mr Van Dijck, but we have had an economic crisis in recent years. Despite this crisis, everyone has at least improved their purchasing power during this cabinet period. Mr Van Dijck will say: but in the meantime life has become more expensive. That's true, and they weren't fat years. It means that we must ensure that the economic recovery continues on the basis of good measures. These measures have so far not been supported by any of the PVV. These good measures will make us more competitive, increase our growth and keep public finances in quiet waters. This is the only way to substantially increase the disposable income of people in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	That's what people in this country have been hearing for 15 years. For 15 years now they have been hearing: we cannot increase wages too much and do not do too much burden relief, because we need to be competitive. Indeed, with the arrival of the euro, wage moderation is the only way to compete, because you gave away your currency button and your interest rate button. The citizens are therefore the victims of the euro and government policy, because who will benefit from the increase in GDP of 200 billion? That's the companies and the government! The citizens have the same spending as 15 years ago, read it with DNB and the CPB. This is not only due to this minister but also to all his predecessors. It is time for us to do something for the citizens of this country rather than for the businesses and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	If this is the analysis of the PVV, I am waiting with interest for the electoral programme, because it will have to impose very heavy burdens on Dutch industry. After all, the PVV wants to give it back to its citizens. I've never seen the PVV active on this point, but if that's the direction, I'm going to follow that with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr Van Dijck, you may respond briefly. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	Since the beginning of the PVV, we have been in favour of reducing the burden on citizens and businesses. It may have escaped the Minister's attention, but we are only focusing on tax relief. We cut into the jungle of all the billions we transfer to foreign bank accounts and all the billions we transfer to neighborhood barbecues, subsidies and so on. We can all spare it as a toothache. It can miss the whole of the Netherlands as a toothache. In this way, we can reduce the burden on citizens by 20 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	If we really were to spend 20 billion in the Netherlands on neighborhood barbecues, we would have a different debate ahead of us. It is, with all due respect, financial bullshit from Mr Van Dijck. He promises everyone relief, but he rejects any measure to create financial space for that. All reforms have been rejected by the PVV, at least since they left the cabinet, because under Rutte I they have been loyal and powerful in helping to restore public finances. In this short period of time, 18 billion have been reformed, but the PVV does not want to be reminded of this. However, I will continue to remind the PVV of the consistency of the argument: the inconsistency of one's own argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	I suggest you finish the second part first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'm not sure what you mean by "the second part"; I'm just gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	I mean, I won't allow any more interruptions until this part is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Chairman. I now come to an important issue for the Christian Union and the SGP, but the CDA has also discussed this, namely the position of the single-earners. The purchasing power repairs carried out by the cabinet are also good for the single-earners. On average, they are improving by 0.4% through this package. That still excludes the WMO measure. In fact, we have taken specific measures on the basis of a request from Mrs Schouten and others to look at the position of a earner with a chronically ill partner. We are helping them financially by reducing their own contribution to the WMO, and we are allocating 50 million for this. For these households, which is of course another piece of the group that these groups are concerned with, the financial advantage may amount to more than €2,000. Despite the fact that the average purchasing power of a earner improves next year, it lags behind the improvement in purchasing power of two-earners and single people. This is, as we know, because of the reduction in the overall tax rebate for the least-earning partner, also known as the countertop subsidy. That is conscious policy, deployed and endorsed by multiple cabinet and coalitions, and motivated from the point of view of emancipation and economic independence of the least-earning partner. Mr Van Vliet asked a question about the employment effects of the reduction of tax rebates. Could they be passed on by the CPB, that's what he asked. The employment effects of this adjustment were taken into account last year by the CPB in the transfer of the 5 billion package. I would also like to refer to the CPB's Kansrijk labour market policy report, which lays down rules of thumb for the employment effects of fiscal measures. Mr Van Vliet also asked for the removal of the reduction in the working week. This would, in his view, contribute to fiscal transparency; phasing out is complicated. The introduction of the phasing-out in the labour discount was one of the measures for us to express fair shares as well. The employment reduction with a steep reduction is effective from the point of view of boosting employment, especially at the bottom, and reducing the poverty trap for these groups. Mr Omtzigt, like Mr Koolmees, has asked about the effects on employment of the purchasing power package. There are. The cabinet has also always made it clear that our policy focuses on both "work must pay" and "fair sharing." That is why in 2016 we focused the 5 billion package strongly on reducing the wedge. In addition, purchasing power of non-working people was repaired in the context of a balanced purchasing power picture. In 2017, the purchasing power picture really threatened to get squirrel, and that's why we did a repair package. Of course, our purchasing power repair is not intended to stimulate employment. In fact, it does cost jobs in the CPB model, but that is the consequence of creating a more balanced purchasing power picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	I have to interrupt you because Mrs Schouten had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	My question was about the point of the single-earners. I had asked a supplementary question about the cabinet's promise that no one would go backwards. In the median purchasing power, the sole earners are on modal plus 0.1, twice modal plus 0.2. This included an increase in the care premium of about €3.50 per month, I believe. Now we know that this increase will be higher. We only have it from one insurer, but that is often a bit trend-setting. If that were the case, this group would not be compensated for with the care allowance either, and it could happen that this group is declining. Is the Minister prepared to honour the government's commitment and to ensure that no one gets worse, not even the sole earner who is about to face a higher care premium?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	There is no commitment from the cabinet that no one is going backwards. Nor can we at all; we never do that. We are looking at groups and making sure that they all have a plus, and we succeeded in doing so for next year. We have now heard the care premium from one small health insurance company, which has a share of 3% or 5%. It is really too early to conclude on this basis that the contributions of the other health insurance companies will be much higher than those of DSW. I will come back to that in a moment, because several people have asked why that premium is so much higher than in our estimate. In any case, it is no reason for us to make promises now that have been poured into concrete or to conclude that the Millions note figures are no longer correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	The cabinet has indicated that the median in the purchasing power cards would be "b" and not "b" at household level "b" in the plus. But that's just the question. The premium is known from only one health insurance provider, but we know that the estimate of €3.50 is quite ambitious. That is what the health insurers have indicated in general. We will soon hear what the reasons for this have been. If the premiums go up for this group of people, who, because of an upper-mode income, do not benefit from the health care allowance to which the Cabinet so much likes to refer as the means by which that increase is overcome, is it unfair to say that everything is okay in the purchasing power charts? We already know that this will not work in practice. Is the Cabinet prepared to consider whether it can ensure it in any way that everyone in that median stays up there? If all these care premiums do appear to be increasing, then perhaps new purchasing power figures should be laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	No, we're not gonna do that. In August, our decision on purchasing power will take place. On this basis, the CPB and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment calculate the purchasing power figures. Then we go back to the dynamic reality, in which things are sometimes position four and sometimes more negative. I do not see any reason at the moment to assume that the DSW increase will be fully followed by everyone. We just don't know yet. At a later stage, the Chamber may discuss with the VWS Minister the way in which figures are produced. I'll say something about that as well. But I'm not gonna make any promises right now to make any more repair packages if things don't work out. As far as I am concerned, these are as-than-reasons, and that way we will not be able to take decisions in August. In August, we decided to repair heavily to ensure that there are pluses, including for a earner. That is the state of affairs in August, but anything can happen afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	If the government estimates the increase in care premiums very conservatively, it can be a means of getting the purchasing power figures in the plus. If, in practice, the care premium is going to be higher, which means that the group that is just above zero is now falling under it, that is not the way the Netherlands is experiencing an improvement in purchasing power. I will return to this in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mrs Schouten is pretending that something very unusual is happening here, but it really is not. With all her experience in the Chamber, she should know that too. The premiums are determined by the insurers. This always happens after the General Financial Reviews. There have been years in which the VWS Department overestimated healthcare expenditure, while it also estimated the extent to which insurers used their reserves to reduce premiums too low. People then suddenly had more purchasing power advantage than in the purchasing power picture of the cabinet. We do not know to what extent insurers are willing or able to use their reserves to reduce premiums. We have noted that DSW is at least not prepared at the moment to use many of its reserves for this purpose. We do not yet know whether this applies to the other insurers. Mrs Schouten doesn't know that either. If she wants to speak big words and suggest that the cabinet has polished up the purchasing power plates by printing the figures, she will really have to come up with a little more support. That suggestion is, in any case, really incorrect and not appropriate. Each year, we see a difference between the premiums as assessed by the VWS Ministry and as subsequently taken over in the Millions Note, and the premiums ultimately determined by the health insurance companies. There may be a negative difference this year, but that difference may be positive again in other years. That system is no different than it was in other years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	I suggest that we give the Minister the opportunity to conclude this part. Then I'll give you the opportunity to interrupt. Is this what this is about, Mr Van Dijck? I'll see if the minister's almost done with this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	The minister just indicated that he'll be returning to the care premiums later. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	This is to a lesser extent the case. As you interrupt more, I'll give you more of the information at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	That's the point. If you come back to this, I won't allow any interruptions right now. If you have now completed this subject, Members will be allowed to ask questions about it. Will you come back to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	I'll finish my story on health insurance premiums; we'll get it over with. I have already indicated that it is too early to draw too bold conclusions about the care premiums. Except for one, all insurers still have to determine their premiums. We can do that until November 19th. As mentioned above, any additional premium increase for people with a lower income is compensated one-on-one with the care allowance, if they are eligible for it. It's automatic. Questions have also been asked about the system of determination. As we know, these estimates are made by VWS. That department looks at all the costs to be covered by the nominal premium and the income-dependent contribution, which runs through employers. VWS must therefore assess what healthcare expenditure will be, what the management costs are, what the scope is in insurers' reserves and to what extent insurers are willing and able to use those reserves. In recent years, the assessment of healthcare expenditures made by VWS has been on the high side. As a result, insurers were able to set their premiums lower than expected. Space from the reserves has been heavily deployed in recent years. It will vary according to the extent to which the insurer can use its reserves to reduce the premium. That is why all the conclusions are premature at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	My question was indeed about those health insurers. So, what's going on? They have 10 billion in reserves. That was just announced an hour ago by the US Secretary of State in an AO. 10 billion in reserves! According to the Dutch Bank, they must have about 6 billion buffers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	My first question is, why is that buffer so high? There is also a lot of discussion about this. Is it necessary to apply Solvency II in absolute terms to the health insurance companies or could you use some coulance in that? Is that $6 billion really necessary? My second question is: how are the insurers going to return those 4 billion surplus reserves to the citizens in the form of a lower premium? How's the Minister gonna take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	The figures mentioned by Mr Van Dijck are correct. Indeed, it amounts to some 10 billion in reserves, of which 6 billion is covered by Solvency II. The answer to his first question, why this 6 billion is needed as a buffer, is that insurers spend a very large budget on healthcare costs every year. It is difficult to estimate how that budget develops. The insurers therefore need space to cope with developments at all times. Mr Van Dijck's second question concerns space. The insurers have more buffer than is required under Solvency II. They can bet it. It's not a given. One year care expenditure is not so bad and too much premium money has been collected, which can then be attributed to the reserves. In the same year, insurers can also decide: the premium is estimated a little lower, so we reduce it; we may take a risk, so we put some of our reserve in place for that. That's how the backup moves back and forth. There is now room for the 4 billion to reduce the premium increase, but that varies from insurer to insurer. Given the nature of the system, the insurers themselves decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	That brings us to a crucial point. The minister says that's what the insurers decide. No, the insurers have an excess buffer of 4 billion. We can discuss whether that 6 billion bumper is too high for bad times or to take blows and whether it is necessary, but it is necessary because of DNB. But as far as the 4 billion is concerned, the Minister of Finance is in charge: that money should simply be used back to the citizens in the form of a reduction in contributions. The Minister cannot say that it is not about this, because the health insurance companies and the government are indeed linked throughout the healthcare chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	This is a political view of Mr Van Dijck, but that is not the way it is at the moment. We have private insurers operating within a public legal framework. We deal with what these insurers should and should, but they remain private insurers. They must have a minimum buffer, but they may be more buffer. They can't spend that money as a profit. There is still a lively debate in the Chamber on this subject with own-initiative legislation, so that is all settled. That 4 billion can in principle be used to reduce premiums. If that amount were to be used at once as proposed by Mr Van Dijck, then you are sure that you will have a very substantial reduction in the premium once and that the following year the premium will explode. Then your spare's burned. I think that insurers are taking it a little slower and trying to look more forward and do so gradually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	The Minister also just spoke about the sole earner. In this context, I asked a question about the WMO meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yeah, he's gonna be here. I've got it right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	The question is whether the lower WMO premium for the tailor-made provision or also applies to the general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	That's right. I have a few questions from Mr Omtzitz on this point, including the question on the question of cashing out. It's on top now, so I'll answer it first. He said that the general tax rebate and the elderly discounts are increasing, but that many elderly people do not benefit from this because they do not pay enough tax. That's the problem of cashing: you're basically entitled to it, but you can't cash it in. That is a real point and we have taken it into account. That is why, in addition to the tax rebates, we have also increased the care allowance and the rent allowance. This is particularly important for this group, the elderly with the lowest incomes. This mainly benefits the lowest income from: small supplementary pensions up to around €10,000 per year. The Chamber has had our purchasing power tables. This shows that there is also a positive purchasing power for the low-income elderly for next year: from 0.5% for people with only AOW to 0.6% for people with AOW plus €10,000. The purchasing power package, including the rent and care allowance, has had a positive effect of 1.7 percentage points, specifically for this group. The second question on which Mr Omtzigt recalled is somewhat lower in the pile. It was about the own contribution to the Wmo. The question was whether this measure applies to the general provision and the tailor-made provision or to only one of the two. The reduction in the maximum own contribution applies only to the tailor-made provision. Municipalities are also free to decide on their own contribution to the general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	If the general provision does not fall within the scope of this provision, most municipalities have an ever larger package of the Wmo covered by the general provision, it is only a very small part. There are many people who receive both a tailor-made provision and a general provision. In that case, all the families who are now paying this high own contribution will have no use at all because then the other contribution will go up. Is the government prepared to ensure that this measure also applies to the general provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	No. We have focused on customization. That is why we have released 50 million. An enlargement would, first of all, intervene very much in the local area. It is really up to the municipalities to decide. Secondly, it would require a much larger budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	With this measure, there are very few breadwinner families with a sick partner helped. I ask the government to indicate in the second term what it would cost if it were to apply to both of them, which is indeed politically relevant, and what purchasing power effect we will have for that group. This seems to be a bit of an empty cap measure after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	I'm very surprised at this. We did this, among other things, at the request of the CDA. Mrs Schouten was in favour of this and the CDA agreed. We're pulling 50 million for it. That 50 million, if we look at the design of our calculations, really comes to the end. If Mr Omtzigt says that 50 million is not relevant to this group, I am very surprised. However, I will see whether the information he has requested can be provided in the second period. Perhaps it would be wiser to continue this debate with Secretary of State Van Rijn, who is a matter expert, for example in the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	No, Mr. Ommzigt. I call Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	I have a technical point, Mr. Chairman. The letter on this subject has been signed by the directors of Finance as the first and not that of VWS. That's why I'm bringing him in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	Sure. I am not saying that Mr Omtzigt could not ask the question. I said I'm going to see if we can generate the requested information so quickly. If not, this point could be recalled in the debate on the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	I would like to come back to Mrs Schouten's health insurance point. I asked questions about that yesterday. The Minister has just said that the care premium has always fallen short of the Millions note in recent years. That's right. Insurers do indeed use a larger share of their reserves to moderate the premium. I said yesterday in my first term that we were already getting signals before the summer that this year's premium increase would be much higher due to package expansions and all kinds of other developments. So I was a little surprised at that 3.5% or €3.50. That's about 3.5%. That's in the picture of the cabinet and in the purchasing power picture. Can the Minister give an explanation for that? After all, we were given signals that the premium would be much higher than the cabinet assumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	I don't know who's coming by the offices of D66 and who's whispering something to Mr Koolmees. That's hard for me to judge. In the hall they are now all called D66-genossen who have played a role in this. I don't know. What I know is that VWS does that every year. VWS does this conscientiously on the basis of the information he has and the cost increases he sees. We must say in all honesty that it is difficult to predict. Care expenditure has also been overestimated by VWS for a number of years. The factor difficult to estimate for VWS is to what extent insurers are willing or able to use reserves to reduce the premium. I suspect that at the moment that is the biggest difference between the first premium we know, that of DSW, and the expected premium increase that VWS has provided. That is very much on the element: how much reserve can an insurer use the premium of one insurer to reduce the premium increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	That's exactly my point. In recent years, the premium has been ever lower than that of which the cabinet initially went out. That was because insurers had more reserves at the time. The cabinet has assumed, and perhaps learned from recent years, that more reserves would be deployed this year too. You'll end up with a lower bounty. This is very decisive for the purchasing power picture, because a difference between the government's estimated premium now and the first signals from DSW...................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs Schouten also asked how this was handled. How does this minister look at these huge differences in estimates, which are so dominant for this purchasing power picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	I have already answered that question towards Mrs Schouten. The purchasing power achieved in 2015 and 2016 was also really different from what we showed in our purchasing power figures of Princess Day in those years. That's in all kinds of factors, but it's also in that bounty. That premium shall not be fixed by the Cabinet. The cabinet makes an estimate, in which two major factors are important. What do we expect from healthcare expenditure? Are healthcare expenditures going to rise and, if so, how fast are they going to rise? We have been too pessimistic about this in recent years. We overestimated care expenses. The impact of Minister Schippers' policy proved to be even greater, so care expenditure was not so bad. Furthermore, we had made a certain assessment of the use of reserves. Now it deviates, based on the premium of one insurer. Mr Koolmees, on the basis of one insurer, concludes that this time it is going the other way. We'll see about that. I wonder how D66 intends to improve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	After DSW came out with the premium, journalists went to more insurers. They asked if this image was recognized. Several insurers have said to recognize this image. From this, I draw the conclusion that, in the coming months, all the figures from the insurers are still to be compiled, and that the purchasing power figures presented by the Millions note are already obsolete.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	First of all, it's almost always like that. The day after Prince's Day they are already obsolete because reality has changed. Secondly, the premium is fixed annually by the insurers. Sometimes it's not that bad and sometimes it's not. Thirdly, we do not know, because the main factor of difference this year is the use of reserves. It's going to be different by insurance company. Some insurers are good at the limp laundry and others aren't. One insurer is willing and able to use substantial reserves to dampen the premium and the other insurer is not. So we're gonna see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	A brief question from Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	When I was interrupting, I was shocked by the Minister's remark that it is up to the insurer himself to see how high that excess buffer is. They've been charged a 6 billion buffer from DNB. That they can raise that buffer to 50 billion, as the Minister insinuates, I can't imagine. Does the Minister not have an instrument to say that the buffer is 6 billion and that all the excess should be used for reduction of premiums? That's gotta be possible, right? Or should we settle that here legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	We can't legally do that. They are private organisations which are partly governed by laws and regulations. The minimum reserve is thus set. For the rest, they are private organisations. The government cannot intervene with insurers, just as it can with pension funds. I think we should be happy about that. I know the insurers in this Chamber aren't popular right now. They get blamed for everything in the system. Let me say one thing: the government, the politics, has given insurers the role to use expenditure as well, efficiently and effectively as possible for healthcare in the Netherlands. This means that they have to make choices and sometimes say no. That gives the insurers an unpopular position. So let us not say that the insurers are the bad guys in the system. I really disagree with that. We ourselves put them in that role, in that gatekeeper function. Some of them should also be able to cope with risks. They need reserves for that. I have no reason to believe that these reserves will reach the amounts suggested by Mr Van Dijck. If that does happen, we will have another debate with each other. Perhaps then you will say that you want to change the system, because that is what you are talking about. But I have no reason to upset the whole system on the basis of the current reserve and how that reserve has gone up and down in the past. The SP and GroenLinks have asked questions about their own risk. This cabinet does not intend to reduce or eliminate its own risk. For minimum income, the premium and the average own risk are lower than what they paid to the sickness fund ten years ago. You must be aware of that. A question has been asked about care-avoidance. That could happen. People in the current system are compensated by the care allowance for their own risk, but one amount is already coming in and the other one you have to pay later. This could create a problem in a household. People could choose not to have an investigation or a scan done anyway, because this is at the expense of one's own risk. In order to get a good idea of this, NIVEL has investigated care avoidance on behalf of VWS, the Consumers' Association, Health Insurance companies Netherlands and the National Family Medical Association. It's done extensive research on that. This shows, among other things, that 3% of people do not go to the general practitioner for financial reasons, in particular because of expected follow-up costs. The general practitioner is not subject to his/her own risk. A lot of people don't know that, by the way. They think it's covered, too. People may avoid the general practitioner because they are afraid of the costs that come after that, for example for medicines or for a specialist. This percentage, which is 3%, has not increased further in recent years, while the own risk has gradually increased. The development of the average number of general practitioners' consultations per person also shows no evidence that certain categories or people in general have gone beyond general practitioners' care. So the 3%, which does not go to the general practitioner for financial reasons, remains. This can, of course, have serious consequences. That is why measures have been taken to restore accessibility to care. I mentioned the healthcare allowance as an important tool. Municipalities offer collective insurance, also to re-insure their own risk. Healthcare insurers offer the possibility to pay their own risk spread out. The VWS Ministry continues to focus on informing insured persons about these measures and also, very importantly, on the exceptions to its own risk. For example, general practitioners, chronic disease programmes, community care and children under the age of 18 are all exempt from their own risks. The Minister of the United States of America has also been promised this by the Prime Minister of the United States of America and will send a letter to the House of Representatives on the statistical data on the consumption of the own risk by chronically ill people and on the possibilities for municipal compensation for chronically ill people. The Chamber will therefore receive another letter from the Minister of the United States of America on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	I've heard this before. By the way, no one wants to go back to the health insurance system. But it's always said that we paid a lot less back then. Isn't that like comparing apples to pears? In the meantime, the basic package is completely undressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	Undressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	Yes. For example, no more physical therapy, to name but a few. We have our own risk, which was not there at first and has now gone up considerably. So it's like comparing apples to pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	My question, which I had asked and which has not yet been answered, is the following. Is it true that poor people avoid more care than rich people? You might expect that on the basis of your own risk. If the minister doesn't know, will he have it investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	I need to take a look at that. The NIVEL has done extensive research on this. I can imagine that a distinction has also been made between income levels, but I have to check this out. Otherwise, the VWS Minister may come back to that. I don't think I compare apples to pears. I think you can really see what part of their income people spent on care then, and what they have lost on it now, where we are of course mainly interested in people with lower incomes. I know the SP doesn't want to hear that, but with the care allowance and the premium as it is set up, it's really very well arranged for low-income people. As I have just said, any increase in the premium for this group will automatically be compensated for, as we do not even have to take a decision on the health care allowance. So that's done really well. Before the SP goes to hell, I'll just point out here, so that party will think about what you're losing with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	But it still compares apples to pears. We have our own risk and there are also own contributions, which I had not mentioned. In any case, there are many things to mention, the whole package is undressed. If you combine all these things, it's really apples and pears comparing what the minister does.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	No, because under the line, you can still compare them. By the way, Mr Merkies now says twice in a row that the package is undressed, but the package is expanded almost every year. There has really been no question of the package being undressed. There is something about Rutte I's intention to introduce a very substantial measure into the package, but that measure has not been implemented by this cabinet anymore. Then I come to a number of more specific budgetary points. Mr Dijkgraaf has asked for a number of budgetary risks such as high debt, the threat of a new crisis and issues such as Brexit, safety, healthcare costs and the labour market. Firstly, we naturally take these risks into account by prudent fiscal policies. We are steadily balancing the budget. Even under unchanged policies, we will have another surplus in a few years' time. It is, of course, up to the Chamber and parties in their election programme to decide how prudent they are in doing so, and also public debt is falling rapidly, with full percentage points per year. I think that is the most important answer to the question of how to prepare the budget for new shocks and risks. Secondly, there are reforms that will also require our attention in the coming years. As far as the labour market is concerned, we will still have to discusszzp'ers with each other. The further reform of the pension system can also be envisaged. Not so long ago, the Chamber had received a comprehensive letter from Secretary of State Klijnsma on this subject, which again brought forward further proposals in this pension reform. In this way, too, we are moving our economy and our public finances even further on the solid path.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	These are good words and fine words in themselves, but I would also remind the Minister that in the years 2007, 2008 and 2009, when the misery began, we had a public debt of just over 40%. Nevertheless, we saw that it rose enormously and that we had enormous problems. Now we're at 62%. Then we still have a very long way to go before we are ready for the next crisis, and it will come at some point, I fear, in view of the cycles that have taken place in history.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	Yes, I hear Mr Dijkgraaf say it. I therefore assume that the SGP in its electoral programme shows a large surplus and a rapidly falling public debt. I welcome that, of course, but perhaps it is even more important that we address the underlying risks in our economy and the various economic sectors. Before the crisis, we allowed, for example, that our financial sector had become very large and anything but stable. The blow in the financial sector, saving banks at the expense of taxpayers: we must not let that happen again. It's just an example, but perhaps the biggest, if you look at how disruptive the crisis has been. I do not have to tell Mr Dijkgraaf what we have done with the banks, but at least for the future we have done two things. Firstly, the sector has become smaller, much less risky and better capitalised. Secondly, we have fundamentally changed the principle that we are dealing with in the future with a bank that is falling apart. Mr Dijkgraaf is familiar with this; I can speak enthusiastically about it. In this way, we will avoid another blow in the budget and in the debt of the next shock. So it is not just budgetary policy. It is also the reforms of the financial sector, the housing market and the labour market. Part of the market must be able to take the hit itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	I couldn't agree more. That is why we have supported such developments. However, I would like a statement from the Minister on the following, also on the future. We are now at a level of 62. That is not a prudent long-term level, because you really want to stay below 60 in a crisis including blow; just look at the SGP standard. Would the Minister dare to make a statement on the level at which, given the current circumstances, you should be at least within a certain period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	As far as public debt is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	In terms of government debt and in terms of number of years. I think the Minister of Finance can give us a good advice in case we start making our election programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u135	I am not going to put a number on that, but if we follow the opinion of the study group, protect the shelf life surplus and ensure that it does not turn back into a deficit, then public debt will gradually decline and fall below the maled 60% limit within a few years, but will continue to fall steadily thereafter. I don't have a state now that I can set the pace, but if you follow the study group's advice on this, that buffer will start again quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u136	The Minister of Finance is probably still a good minister. I would like to challenge him to become more concrete, because it is steady. I can see the path too, but it takes years for you, for example, to get close to 40%. Shouldn't that be faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u137	I am not going to comment on this, but I would like to refer to the opinion of the Budget Group. It is in favour of letting the automatic stabilisers do their job again. If you do that in good times, you'll protect the shelf life surplus and the government debt will also fall rapidly. If I put a number on it, Mr Dijkgraaf will then ask what measures I am going to take to speed up the 40%. If we pursue sensible policies, then we let the stabilizers do their job again. We have, of course, had to send balance in recent years. There is a lot of enthusiastic support in the Chamber for the functioning of automatic stabilisers. In bad years, you don't intervene immediately. Then tax revenues are falling very quickly and benefits are rising. That is what you are going to let happen, but only if you allow these stabilizers to do their job in good years, if you stick to the frameworks and if you use income to work out debts and maintain the surplus. I'm more concerned with the system. I would like to refer to the study group, which says sensible things about this. That would be my answer. I do not think it is wise to say that we should be there in that year. But that system is going to help us very much. Questions have been asked about the expenditure frameworks. Here Mr Koolmees, who has also said many positive things, became a bit prickly. He suggested, also with a few other examples, that the cabinet had not presented matters completely transparently. That is strange, because he knows like no other that frameworks, framework corrections and the way the framework develops are always offered in the same place in the Millions Note. It is also so funny that Mr Koolmees always opens the Millions note straight away, but that's his love for the subject of the table. There it is. So I don't really understand why he thought that. It's right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u138	That's not what it says. That's my point. In table 3.6, that's my greatest love...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u139	I know. It's like that every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u140	This year, the framework test on the expenditure side simply closes to zero again. In the text below, I have to read that the frame has been adapted. That was my point. I raised three points yesterday: the care premium, this framework but also the hidden cuts in education that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u141	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u142	Exactly. I thought: if the Minister of Finance was so attached to these frameworks, he was just saying to Mr Dijkgraaf that he thinks the framework system, the salmon standard, is such an important starting point. Why does he not simply show that there was a framework crossing? The total amount involved was 2.3 billion of the balance, which you could have shown by exceeding the frameworks. Now the presentation of a zero under my favorite table suggests that the frames close.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u143	Yes, but if Mr Koolmees reads that table correctly, he can see that a separate rule in the table shows that the expenditure framework has been corrected. The text of point 3.2 also makes it clear that the package is an intensification on top of the expenditure framework. So he's actually saying that I shouldn't have changed the framework, but he does think I could, because D66 supports that expenditure. D66 supports the purchasing power package and the extra money for this and that. So that is not Mr Koolmees' objection. He supports the extra expenses. Actually, he says I shouldn't have changed the framework. I think that's an unwise and even dangerous route. The Minister of Finance must immediately put that expenditure back into the framework and say: from now on, this is the new framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u144	That's how I can play Minister of Finance. In hindsight adjust the frames to close the weather. That is not the intention, of course. You've got frameworks, ceilings, what you've got to stick to. You can go over that. In fact, I said yesterday in my first term that D66 supports this, because we think that the use of that money is sensible. But then just show it to me. Of course, this is not the main point of this debate, but it is a small point of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u145	It is a fairly fundamental point, but it is of two and one: if D66 supports it, then we only have a discussion on what rule you justify it. Mr Koolmees says that it should be on the bottom line in the table. He says there should be a little mint over there, while there's a zero right now. I say: sorry, two lines higher says that there has been an expenditure framework correction in the same table on another line. I understand, however, that Mr Koolmees completely renounces politics, but that he would have liked to have found the information on another rule. I don't agree with that, but let's agree to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u146	Now it's all gonna be some kind of caricature. I admit immediately that I am also responsible for that myself. The point is, of course, as follows. In recent years, we have adapted the frameworks a few times, both in the 6 billion package and in the 5 billion package of tax cuts, and now it is happening again. With broad support, the framework has been adapted three times in the meantime. Again, D66 has expressed support for this. However, if we change the framework every time something changes for good reasons, what is the use of such a ceiling on expenditure that we set in advance, at the start of a cabinet period? Then what is the guiding information from such a framework? That is the point of principle of my first term, irrespective of what rule it is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u147	Agreed. Mr Koolmees is, of course, right on that principle. What is the value of a budget rule when you adjust it so easily? We have had an extremely challenging budget period. Mr Koolmees also referred to this. We have had to implement a number of additional packages and far-reaching reforms. I believe that, in such a situation, the budgetary rules allow the frameworks to be adapted accordingly. There's something else going on this year. For the second year in a row, we have now had a very serious problem of exchange rates. That means an adjustment to what we expected. Simply put, the framework is adjusted annually to reflect inflation. We had a certain expectation of that in the base path. But inflation is extremely low, so the expenditure framework is much less increased. That does not have to be a problem if all expenditure in the departments would have increased much less. But for the first time we have once again concluded collective agreements, a very big one on education. So the frame is broken. In the spring we pressed that back on the departments. I shall come back to this in a moment in the context of the education budget. So all the departments have been told: we are sorry, the framework is less adapted than you expected, you need to adjust your spending accordingly. That applies to all departments. Given that discipline, and also knowing that there are really a number of pressing priorities, there must be more money to the police, there must be problems in the defence sector, there must be something about purchasing power, we simply made the political decision to change the framework. I have no need to hide that; therefore it is also in two places in the Millions Note. The context of these particular circumstances must be added if it is noted that we have had to push down spending frameworks by billions twice in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u148	My question is a little along the lines of this, because it is also about such a golden rule, that of the separation of income and expenditure. I have asked questions about this in connection with the legislative proposal, and the Secretary of State has just left on the issue of monuments deductions and training deductions. The explanatory memorandum states that the monument deduction and the training deduction for next year are deleted. Removing such a deduction is, of course, a burden. The explanatory memorandum states that 131 million of its revenue has been used for "comprehensive budgetary problems." Does that mean that we can all now table amendments to finance expenditure with an increase in costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mrs Schouten can try anything, but her question was whether this was in line with the budgetary rules. This is about two fiscal measures, perhaps the Secretary of State will say more about them which we have been wanting to reform for a long time. We even want to get rid of it. At the same time, we still want to achieve the policy objective. We believe that this can be much more targeted by means of a specific subsidy scheme. Evaluations also show that the tax approach, the tax regime really does have a lot of losses I'm looking for the good Dutch word "fucking lose." It benefits goals or citizens for whom it may not have been intended and not for the benefit of refurbishing monuments and so on. On that basis, therefore, we want to reform this scheme. If, due to a policy reform, you want to switch from fiscal measures to subsidy measures, that is allowed. That is what the budgetary rules allow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u150	That's not quite right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u151	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u152	That subsidy, which we are indeed going to have another discussion about, will not start until 2018. Only in 2018 will there be a training scheme; a voucher-like measure is the plan. This is really about 2017. In 2017, that deduction item will be deleted and part of that revenue will not be used "for a new subsidy scheme' but used "for state-wide budgetary issues'. That is quite different from a voucher or a subsidy scheme for training. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u153	I really need to take a look at this timing. I didn't think so, but if that's the remaining problem, I'd like to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u154	Once again, the explanatory memorandum would have said that the proceeds would be used for training. It simply says that it is being used for 'comprehensive budgetary problems'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u155	That is true, because the transition from a tax regime to a subsidy scheme will enable us to achieve our policy objective much more efficiently. This saves us and that saving is being used for the government-wide budget issue, read: the exchange rate problem. This reform, which has been desirable for a longer period of time, therefore also saves and, yes, contributes to the saving exercise. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u156	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u157	I conclude that it is true that the proceeds from the removal of the burden measure, i.e. the increase in charges, have been used to solve an exchange rate problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u158	It's just how you present it. First of all, we said that we are abandoning the tax regime. Those resources are transferred to OCW. A tax measure makes it an expenditure, a subsidy scheme. Then, with a targeted subsidy scheme, OCW showed the same policy goal of achieving cheaper and thus saving money. That's how it happened. I have allowed this as Minister of Finance, because also OCW must simply contribute to the question of terms of trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u159	Where is the Secretary of State, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u160	I don't know, Mr. Chairman, but we can send someone in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u161	That's what I'm gonna do. Oh, there he is. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u162	We had a little discussion about the education deduction and the monument deduction, so let me just say to the Secretary of State. I think it'll come back soon. Mr Koolmees has asked about the in=terminal. The big amount is right. We even raised it to 2.5 billion. That's high. That's for sure. But given the under-exhaustment we have seen in recent years, we believe that this is feasible and realistic. The Court will be further informed about the completion of the assignment by means of the Autumn Note and the annual financial report. I come to the budget of V and J. The first and most vile question came from Mr Koolmees: does the Minister actually support that extra money for V and J? Of course: yes. However, I have made a number of critical comments towards a number of parts of the V and J family: the problems cannot all be solved with money. I've been disturbed by a number of public statements made by executives from those parts of the V and J family. They publicly pleaded for more money. They also worked on all kinds of heavy lyrics. I have noted one text: 'If we do not get the money we are asking for, that is the beginning of the end of the rule of law'. That's a literal quote from the highest boss of one of the parts of our criminal justice chain. I think that's pretty rough lyrics. I object to that. There are also real control problems, management problems in the budget policies of those V and J services. I am also asking for the help of the Chamber to not only call for'more money, more money, more money' but also to look really critically at the issue of V and J spokesmen in the Chamber. I also appeal to the V and J spokesmen in the Chamber to see how that money is handled. At least we made agreements about that with V and J. We reported that to the Chamber last autumn. The financial function, management control and supervision of the different parts of the V and J family are strengthened. The control function is completely refurbished within V and J. The sg will have an important ownership role, so that it can better adapt to the budget and budget management. The progress of these measures is also closely monitored by my department. After all, we are also systemically responsible, as it is called by an ugly word, for budgetary management in the Empire and are therefore closely involved. The Minister of V and J reports to the Chamber twice a year on these appointments. We have now made additional money available to V and J in this budget. To a large extent, this is intended for the national police, the prosecution and the judiciary. It was agreed with the national police that priority should be given to improving financial governance and internal governance. That's how we make sure the money ends up okay. Mr Omtzigt asked about the relationship between investment and quality and the assignment. As an example, he mentioned the case law. Is the case-law now on balance moving forward or backwards? Of the 450 million, 110 million are structural investment and intensification, and 340 million are intended to reduce deficits, a large proportion of which are national police. These services, of course, have had to deal with efficiency in the course of the cabinet period. The case law, to follow that example, has had an efficiency mission of 93 million. The cabinet has already added 60 million for the judiciary in the last few years. Following a request from Mrs Schouten last year, we had an independent expert, former dg André de Jong, validate whether the public prosecutor and the judiciary now have sufficient resources to carry out their duties. There's been a report on that. With the added resources, we are acting in accordance with his advice and there are again sufficient resources for the tasks of these organisations. A price agreement has recently been agreed with the Justice Council: PxQ 2017-2019. On education, Mr Koolmees asked several questions. He has drawn attention to the issue of equality of opportunity. He did so in line with Mr Harbers and Mr Nijboer, who tabled a motion last year on equality of opportunity in education. Mr Koolmees rightly said in the debate today that education expenditure has increased during this cabinet period. These rose from 26.9 billion to 29.5 billion, and D66 contributed to this. The amount per pupil has also increased further. It does vary by type of education, but education expenditure per participant has really increased considerably during this cabinet period. That's a good thing, and it's a good thing. This year, the cabinet specifically allocated money for a number of intensifications on the issue of equality of opportunity in education. The use of these resources will come to the Chamber before the education budget in a separate letter from the Minister of OCW. Mr Koolmees also drew attention to the hidden cuts in OCW. This has to do with the problem of terms of trade, and so it applies to all departments. That is simply what we call 'budget management'. In the spring I make a round around all the departments. Then there are setbacks and windfalls in the departments. The exchange rate is a setback for the departments themselves. That's what's happening through OCW. Of course, OCW has a large budget, so this is also about big money. At the same time, against the exchange rate problem which the Ministry itself had to deal with, OCW will receive 185 million from the supplementary post for the National Educational Agreement, which still had that money on it next year. 700 million is also available for teachers' wages. So there is 700 million in extra pay for teachers in the new collective agreement. All in all, I think that the OCW budget has had a good time... Mr Koolmees seemed to stand up for a moment, but if he stays seated, that is a sign that he agrees with me!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u163	This is asking for an interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u164	This is indeed entrapment, Mr President. I am very pleased that expenditure on education has increased. D66 fought hard for that, also in all kinds of different chords. The point that I made, and which also emerged from the General Political Reviews, was not only the question of terms of exchange on the OCW budget, but also the adjustment of estimates. Fortunately, this was removed from the books by motion at the APB and therefore the schools are not being cut back. That was the point of the hidden austerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u165	With this addition, we have indeed dealt with the whole education budget. Some of these problems still need to be addressed in education. The Chamber has stated that it must not be at the expense of the budgets of the schools. We believe that there is still room for manoeuvre in the large budget of OCW in order to fill it out differently. The mission of the Chamber is clear. Then I come to two points by Mr Grashoff, namely energy transition and sustainable public finances. He asked whether the Minister agreed that the energy transition needed to accelerate, including from the perspective of sustainable public finances. Mr Grashoff knows our ambitions, which are also embedded in European agreements and in the agreements of the Energy Agreement. In addition, we are dealing with the implementation of the Urgendavonnis. In the course of the appeal procedure, the Cabinet shall adopt measures to implement that judgment. We are also committed at European level to improving the ETS in order to reduce the ceiling on CO emissions. This would also make the system significantly more effective. The impact of the sustainability of public finances will, of course, depend on the effectiveness of the measures and the efficiency with which they can be taken over time. The primary goal of the energy transition is not to put the government budget in order, but to combat climate change. We are, of course, trying to achieve this as effectively and efficiently as possible from the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u166	I have also pointed out a real long-term effect. If you do not get these climate issues under control, the costs of maintaining the lowlands in the Netherlands will be completely out of control. That process has been going on for a long time. We have already made incredible costs for adaptation and for a large part via the water boards. Waterboard charges have increased enormously in recent years. Will the Minister deliberately disregard that element? Frankly, I think that in the long run it is one of the biggest threats to our public finances. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u167	I am listening to Mr Grashoff and I understand that I would deliberately ignore something. I haven't experienced that myself. Climate problems deserve an answer. Yes, that also requires a lot of investment from private parties and governments. These investments are also increasing very rapidly. Just think of the award of wind farms off the Dutch coast. Indeed, the waterboards must invest heavily. This is reflected in the financial statements we get from the other governments. We also believe that the investment institution we are now planning to address the problems with these investments by contributing to the financing of the energy transition. I refer to the transition to renewable energy. Major investments in energy saving are needed in the coming years. We believe that the investment institution can play a role where there are bottlenecks. So I don't think we fundamentally disagree on this; maybe that's about the pace, but now I'm filling in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u168	Then you fill in well, because the pace is not high enough. That's what you see in IPCC's prognosis of the amount of time we have left and what the volume is that we can afford in this world at all. So it's two minutes to twelve. That is an important responsibility. The Netherlands is one of the lowest countries in the world and will face the consequences of climate change to the greatest extent, much more than many other countries around the Netherlands. So I do not see that perspective at all in the Minister's reply. He's talking about the energy agreement and the Urgenda pronunciation. It has been said for a year and a half that there is a programme for this. It's not gonna happen. It's not in this million-dollar note, either. So in that sense, it's actually a lost cabinet period. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u169	It seems to me that Mr Grashoff wants to disagree with me and the cabinet on this point because it is an important profile of GroenLinks. That may be so, but then it may not make sense to think about it for a very long time. This cabinet is objectively working on a major catch-up. The Netherlands was very behind with, for example, renewable energy and climate objectives. We're working on big programs right now. I mentioned wind energy. We're looking for methods to accelerate the process. I refer to the investment institution. So we're in the middle of catching up. Looking back, Mr Grashoff is right: the Netherlands was behind and perhaps we are still behind. But right now, a catch-up is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u170	That catch-up takes place to a very limited extent. I naturally welcome this Minister's initiative to the investment institution, which he has already mentioned several times in his contribution. In the meantime, he's really raising my expectations. So I am extremely curious what he comes up with, because it must be a very strong instrument if you want to make a dent in a package of butter in that area. And it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u171	I cannot escape the impression that whatever we come up with in terms of energy and the environment, GroenLinks will be disappointed. That is a pity, but I consider it an encouragement to achieve results. Mr Grashoff asked a question about the allocation of asylum costs. He asked whether we were prepared to maximise the contribution from ODA to the reception of asylum seekers on the basis of a long-term average. In fact, since the 1990s, we have been qualifying asylum seekers as ODA in the first year. The same applies in the Netherlands. So that's paid out of the ODA budget. In the past year, in 2015, that amount has grown very strongly. At the moment, it is falling very much. So the Minister for BuHa-OS probably, looking at the end of the year, has a windfall in the sense that more ODA funds are released to be spent on projects, for example in regions in Africa or the Middle East. The first-year care costs are included. The cabinet has no plans to maximize or address that. Moreover, in order to relieve the budget for BuHa-OS twice, I would like to say that, from my mind, additional resources have been made available, given the enormous task and given the challenge of reception in the region. These funds were therefore also channelled through the budget for BuHa-OS. So it didn't just go at the expense of that. I come to Europe, Mr Van Dijck's favourite subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u172	First of all, I want to know how long the Minister thinks he needs, because the Secretary of State also needs to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u173	Those are impossible questions. I still have two much smaller blocks of European issues, in particular on the ECB, which have been asked a lot of questions and the financial sector. Those cubes are really much smaller than the big chunks so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u174	Another of our favourite subjects is, of course, the asylum tsunami of 60,000 asylum seekers that we received last year. If the PVV asks what one asylum seeker costs the Dutch taxpayer, we get the answer from this cabinet that this is not being kept up to date. People don't want to know. Before you explain the red carpet, does the Minister not agree with me that the Dutch taxpayer is entitled to know what it will cost him and the treasury if you tell 60,000 people to come here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u175	I am beginning to suspect that Mr Van Dijck, for example, did not even look at the written answers we sent to the Chamber for the debate. That information isn't classified at all. We can show what the costs of receiving asylum seekers are for the government, for municipalities and so on. I think that was in the written set. Perhaps Mr Van Dijck is too busy. It's possible. All right, all right, all right, But maybe he should do his homework better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u176	Assume I've looked at every reaction. In fact, I've been digging through all the budgets and searching for "refugee" and "asylum seeker." That brings me to EUR 3.5 billion for 60,000 asylum seekers. That's $50,000 per asylum seeker in the first year. I believe that taxpayers also have a right to know what such an asylum seeker costs in the second year, if he is receiving welfare benefits, a social housing, the establishment, care, education, if he lets his family come over. None of us can know that. This minister is generous in opening up the borders. He is generous in rolling out the red carpet: all of Africa and all of Syria are allowed to come here. But on the question of what costs an asylum seeker in the Netherlands for ten years in terms of benefits, security, police deployment, we get zero every time, because we cannot know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u177	This is apparently the image that Mr Van Dijck wants to give to the listeners at home. It's not true. We've provided information. But once people have the right to stay in the Netherlands, they become part of this society and then we don't hang a snitch on it, we don't hang a wire to follow for ten years where someone is and what someone costs. If people are allowed to stay, they can stay and they are part of society. We don't hang a snitch on the elderly or kids to see what they cost. The reception of asylum seekers in this first phase has been a good example. That costs money; there is no doubt about it at all. I do not know what Mr Van Dijck has added, but it costs money. It is humane reception, it is respect for human rights and refugee treaties. The PVV doesn't care about that, but the cabinet doesn't. We attach ourselves to it. All qualifications like "open borders" and "red runners" are, of course, bullshit. There is an extremely urgent situation in Syria's war zone. And yes, some of those refugees are being taken care of in the Netherlands. That number has fallen dramatically this year, also thanks to the efforts of the Dutch Government during the European Presidency. We ensure that people are adequately taken care of in other places, but people who are taken care of in the Netherlands are entitled to proper care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u178	Since the Minister is now moving to the ECB, the EU and then the financial sector, I would like to return to a crucial issue for me. I actually put that question to the Minister in the first place. I don't want to wait for the Secretary of State's response. What is the Minister's view on fiscal instrumentalism? Does he think that's too far-fetched? What's he like in there? Shouldn't we all be trying to reduce that? We have just seen the concrete example of this deduction of monuments. That is where we go more towards the sphere of subsidies, which I warmly welcome. With the Secretary of State, I can go back to the Tax Plan in detail, but I have also specifically asked the Minister this question. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to move on soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u179	It is true: this question has been asked specifically to me. I was of course hoping to be able to leave everything on taxation to the Secretary of State, if only not to double-tax the time of the sitting. Instrumentalism? I think that tax policy can achieve social goals, but you must be very critical of effectiveness. What do you Accommodate and what do you actually achieve? We really need to be critical of that. As Mr Van Vliet knows, the Secretary of State is working very hard to reduce all kinds of wild growth, to simplify, including from the point of view of the Tax Administration, which must all be able to implement it. There are also some challenges, so we are looking at them very critically. The conclusion that you are no longer allowed to achieve social or economic goals by specific tax instruments other than by raising fair money is too harsh and too far. That would be too big a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u180	I thank the Minister and also the Secretary of State for their reply, because I regret to have to withdraw from this debate for a private reason. I will, of course, read the Acts after this and I see the Secretary of State in detail in the handling of the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to Europe. This is our immediate environment, our main trading partner and a partnership that benefits the Netherlands. Mr Van Dijck crowed victory over the Brexit and quoted The Guardian. I congratulate him on reading this quality newspaper. While it is true that the IMF has revised its growth expectations for the UK for 2016, the IMF has substantially revised the growth expectations for 2017 downwards at the same time. It's cut in half. The growth expectations of the same IMF for next year have been halved! The UK is therefore significantly below the growth expectations for the developed economies of the IMF. This growth forecast is 1.6% and that is also the growth forecast for the Netherlands of the IMF. Too much cheering about Brexit is in any case too early. Many questions have been asked about the ECB's interest rate policy. I repeat: I am committed to the long tradition of independence of central bankers. It is also laid down in treaties and we must respect them. It is dangerous for politicians to say at an opportunistic moment, when it happens to be convenient for them, that they have gone too far; we have to adapt treaties or we have to make a coup d'état within the independent ECB. The cabinet is certainly not for that. How do we look at monetary policy? The extent to which quantitative easing extends the ECB's balance sheet, i.e. the extent to which money is brought into the economy, is very exceptional, at least in a historical perspective. It is not very exceptional when you look at it in the international context. The US, Japan, the United Kingdom and other countries around Europe have similar types of exceptional monetary policy. Is it effective? It's harder to say. I think it certainly has positive effects. It also has disadvantages in terms of risks that can build up, for example by increasing asset prices. These risks can occur and they may already occur on components. Furthermore, the low-interest climate is a major challenge. We have to note that the simple reasoning that the low interest rate is the ECB's debt is fundamentally incorrect. Interest rates have been falling steadily for 20 years, not only in the Netherlands but in the Western economies. The interest rate is therefore very low. In this low interest rate environment, the ECB has the mandate to push inflation to 2%, because it supports economic growth. It is a very challenging task, and that is why this exceptional monetary policy is being pursued. In addition, the ECB has, of course, a mandate to do so on the basis of the importance of the euro area as a whole, not for a sector, not for a country, but for the euro area as a whole. Does the ECB do so within its mandate? Isn't it monetary financing? Does it violate the treaty? This has been the subject of legal proceedings up to and including the European Court of Justice. In their opinion, the ECB has acted within the terms of office until now. That brings me to Mr Omtzigt's question, because he asked whether we were prepared to amend the Treaty or otherwise intervene and gain support within Europe against this policy. We are not, because of the fundamental point I made at the beginning and the analysis of how the policy now works. It is not the role of politicians to intervene in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u182	That is, of course, a fine caricature which the Minister sketches as if a coup were taking place. The Minister is now saying that it is extremely exceptional. I can tell him that I reread the Acts of the House of Representatives when the Maastricht Treaty was adopted. It says very clearly: no monetary financing. That means no buy-in. That's what's happening now. The Minister now also states that there are court rulings. Those statements are about OMT. You can indeed go to court. If the treaty is violated, you can go to the Court in Luxembourg, unlike the Dutch Constitution. There has not yet been a clear statement on quantitative easing, let alone buying up government bonds and corporate bonds on this scale. In the meantime, the Minister also recognises that it causes real and serious damage to the economy and entails major risks. Would the Minister consider calculating these risks and would he like a legal analysis to be made as to whether the ECB is acting within his mandate or not? I understand from the other steps that we are not deciding today, but would he like that legal analysis to be carried out? That is what politicians can decide. We are giving a mandate. We are not talking about whether the ECB should raise interest rates today or not; it is quite clear that the independence of the ECB applies in this respect. However, we need to talk about whether the ECB is complying with the mandate by, for example, buying up so much debt that it is a blocking partner if it ever has to be written off on debt. Does the ECB comply with the mandate of Article 123 of the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u183	This is in the opinion of the cabinet to the ECB and it can be examined at the Court. The Dutch cabinet has no opinion on this which differs from what the Court of Justice has set at its borders. The ECB shall also set limits on how it completes its mandate. They were verified in that judgment of the Court and found to be correct. We have no reason to question it or to put it or argue that the ECB is operating outside the Treaty outside its mandate. So we really have a different opinion on it than Mr Omtzigt. It is not the first time we have had this debate. He's asked me to investigate it before, to challenge it, to fight it, and my judgment on it is unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u184	My question was precise. Did the government pick it out? Once again, reference is made to a ruling on OMT, the buy-in programme, and the Gauweiler case, but there has been no trial on QE and buying up the 1,300 billion in government bonds. There are reasonable doubts on the part of many economists as to whether this fits into the Treaty. So my only question was: has the cabinet, which now admits for the first time that it entails major risks...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr President, I object to this. I choose my own words. Mr Omtzigt puts words in my mouth. I have chosen very carefully my own words about how I look at the ECB's policy and about what our role and its responsibility is. Mr Omtzigt now rephrases my words every time. I would like to make the point that I have formulated it more precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u186	I have also put it more precisely than what the Minister constantly puts in my mouth. He constantly says that there has been a court case at the Court on this point and there has not been one, as the Minister knows. That is why I ask him: has an analysis been made by this cabinet, by the Council of Ministers of the European Union in general or in the eurogroup of which he is the President himself, whether the ECB is legally complying with the mandate given to him, and what is the verdict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u187	No, because this is not our role; that brings me back to the fundamental point. The ECB should be able to shape monetary policy independently within the mandate. Of course, there can always be discussion about what measures fall within the scope of the mandate. The Court is there to judge that in the end. The ruling that has been given was indeed about OMT, but the Court has indeed expressed its opinion on the criteria and considerations that the ECB has made in shaping its instruments. These criteria are valid at the moment and have been established by the Court of Justice of the European Union as 'within the mandate'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u188	Mr Omtzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u189	I'm gonna try one more time. The Minister says here all the time that it is not up to politics to test. It is not up to the politicians to review the measures, but to review the mandate. That's exactly what I'm asking for. Is there a review of whether the ECB is complying with the mandate? That mandate is specifically described in Article 123, namely the promotion of a functional market economy. Within such an economy, buying up large quantities of government bonds does not automatically fit. This fits into a different kind of economy, but not into a functional market economy. Has there been a test to see if this is within the mandate? Or did that test not take place and does the government not want it to be tested externally?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u190	We're really going around the same principle. The Treaty stipulates that the ECB shall be independent in the conduct of its monetary policy. The ECB therefore determines which instruments are necessary, proportionate and applicable within this mandate. This can only be reviewed by the European Court of Justice. It has already been said and may be repeated in the future, because people sometimes fight this issue. The Dutch cabinet sees no reason to do so and has no opinion of it either. The Dutch cabinet believes that the ECB can decide this itself within the legal framework. It can then be reviewed by the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u191	The Minister keeps saying that he does not want to appeal to the ECB, but the ECB does appeal to countries all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u192	I shall come to that in a moment, because Mr Merkies has indeed asked a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u193	Then I'll wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u194	Mr Merkies asked a question about the ECB's involvement in structural reforms that national governments must implement. He has a problem with that. The ECB has apparently set up a working group. In the press, that working group was called a secret working group, but it is simply an internal working group of the ECB. Mr Draghi has also confirmed this, and he has explained this in the European Parliament. This working group is concerned with the interaction between structural reforms which are, in fact, often taking place at national level or should take place at the national level.... and monetary policy. We want to examine how these two interact and what their impact on inflation and growth capacity is. The ECB may do so. I understand that it will not lead to recommendations, let alone compelling recommendations to governments. I therefore have no objection to the ECB studying such matters, as I have no objection to the Netherlands Bank's views on all kinds of issues relating to the organisation of our economy and the reforms that are necessary or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u195	Mr Merkies, a brief question please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u196	Anyway, little publicity has been given to that. Suddenly there was a Task Force on Economic Reforms, which apparently is meant to stimulate certain reforms, so to speak. There was already a study group at the ECB, namely the Country Surveillance Division. However, this task force goes a step further. It is true that Draghi then recommends in public countries to implement certain reforms. Does the Minister think that's his job?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u197	I'm sure that's allowed. I have absolutely no objection to that either. All kinds of international institutions make recommendations to countries, the euro area and the EU to reform and tackle things. The SP doesn't have to agree with that. We are not obliged to listen to it either. The IMF also produces an Article IV report on the Netherlands once in a while in which it recommends that we reform all kinds of things. The SP has never taken any interest in this, so I wonder why she is so concerned about it now. Does the SP think that the ECB should not have an understanding of the type of reforms that are needed for macroeconomic reasons, for example because of financial stability, or that it should continue to support the effectiveness of monetary policy in order to create a common flywheel in the economy? Can the ECB not look at such reforms? I'd really find that amazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u198	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u199	In the past, the ECB has sometimes taken action only after certain decisions have been taken in Europe. I am thinking of the Fiscal Compact and the permanent emergency fund. The ECB therefore has a means of exerting pressure. Think also of Greece, where they could, for example, stop the ELISA support and where they are in the troika.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u200	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u201	So they do have influence. I am so surprised that the Minister is thinking in one direction, where Draghi may apparently say anything about the policy here, but the Minister may not say anything about Draghi's policy on the other. Why should Minister Draghi not appeal to the fact that he is pursuing a policy of bubbly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u202	I note with this debate that Dutch politicians say a lot about monetary policy. However, the Dutch cabinet considers it to be fundamentally incorrect to intervene on this issue, to amend treaties and so on. It is true that the ECB is legally protected in its independence. The ECB can find anything from Dutch government policy. Whether we do something about it and whether we follow those recommendations and views is a second. Let me say the following about this. Mario Draghi says very consistently that national politicians in particular need to move to reform their economies and that this could be the biggest step forward to improve the economy in the euro area. I agree with him. Mr Omtzigt asked about the blocking vote that the ECB will have on debt write-off. How many of the debt instruments, government bonds, will be held by the ECB? Since the ECB holds such a large proportion of these bonds, it could block debt write-off. To avoid this, the ECB itself set an issue limit. Under this limit, the Eurosystem, i.e. the ECB and the national central banks, may not hold more than 25% or 33% of the bonds depending on the type of bonds. This will prevent the Eurosystem from having a blocking minority vote in decisions on debt restructuring. So I share the concern, but this is provided for. I will move on quickly to the final point, the financial sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u203	I have one more question first. Moreover, it is not about the point that previous speakers raised, because I agreed with the Minister on this: the ECB is independent. I have already asked a few times, also on Accountability Day and in the spring note, for information on the risks to public finances posed by the buy-back policy of the Netherlands Bank in particular. There is some information on this in the documents, but I do not feel that we, as a Chamber, are fully in control of the final consequences of the buy-back policy on public finances. DNB buys up about 5 billion a month, perhaps at negative interest rates by now. Eventually, they can end up with the government as a shareholder. Is the Minister prepared to offer that insight?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u204	If that's the case, we've failed. We have informed the Chamber about this at various times, but that should be better and more comprehensive. As you know, a State guarantee was granted to DNB on the one hand. However, this had more to do with exposure, the exposure via country programmes to the risks the central banks have, for example in Greece. That was the state guarantee. On the other hand, we now allow the Dutch Bank to make an independent provision, with amounts of 0.5 billion a year, in the coming years to cover risks arising from monetary policy. I am sending a letter to the Chamber this autumn on the further design, scope and justification of this provision. That answers Mr Nijboer's question. He wants a better understanding of how the risk arises, how big it is and so on. We will include this in the letter on that provision, which is now being built up by the Dutch Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u205	That's what it's all about. We have had a clear letter on this provision, which follows from it. We want to know: what kind of bonds are on the balance sheet, what was the expected return in the past? It is such an analysis, because this is not so common monetary policy that can ultimately go back to public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u206	I will discuss with the Netherlands Bank how we can provide maximum information to the Chamber on this matter. Moreover, the fact that this is resolved by a provision and not by a State guarantee has to do with that independence. The Dutch Bank has said to me: we do not want this to fall under the State guarantee, because then we are dependent on the State; monetary policy must be able to be conducted independently and so we must be able to make provision for it ourselves, in fact without the consent of the State. We are, of course, 100% shareholder, but I think this reasoning of the Nederlandsche Bank is correct. Therefore, the shareholder allows this provision to be made. We will inform the Chamber better about the basis for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u207	The Netherlands Bank also indicated yesterday that the low interest rates, partly caused by the ECB's monetary policy, can bring risks, for example for our banking sector. We already know that there are risks to pensions; Mr Omtzigt has even calculated this completely. Is it not wise to gain more insight into the risks of low interest rates for all our financial sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u208	That is precisely why the Netherlands Bank has issued the Financial Stability Overview, which provides this insight. By the way, this will be a gradual process. It matters to the banks to what extent they have an interest margin on current loans and therefore make profits. If interest rates remain as low as is currently expected, they will gradually decrease over the coming years. This means that banks' profit margins will be under pressure in the coming years. I have no opinion of my own. So if you ask me, I will put the question to the Dutch Bank. But this is precisely why the Netherlands Bank issues the Financial Stability Overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u209	Sure. However, I think it is quite possible that it is going to hit the banks and eventually even irony is going to hit the credit because the banks are less left. If the profits are under pressure, they're going to give less credit. What did we do again? But it can also affect pension funds, insurers and perhaps more sectors. Perhaps with the CPB and the Nederlandsche Bank we can gain more insight into these kinds of risks, because that seems relevant to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u210	If Mrs Schouten wants to broaden it, I would like to say that the CPB has independently put an analysis of QE and its macro-economic impact on its work programme. So the CPB is going to do this type of analysis. What is it doing in our economy? • to make • • • • • • Hopefully that will answer her question. The conclusion that it will be at the expense of lending is, by the way, very quick. I hear Mrs Schouten saying that she doesn't say that. But I'm still responding to it. I think that conclusion is going very quickly. It will, however, reduce profit margins and possibly also reduce dividends and dividend expectations, bank promises. I think that was the most important point of the Dutch Bank. I shall come back to that very soon, because Mr Nijboer has asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u211	Shortly, Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u212	Just for the record. The pressure on lending was the analysis of the Nederlandsche Bank, not my analysis. I note that the Minister is now also criticising or commenting on the analyses of the Dutch Bank. Well, that's new.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u213	My point is that the banks will have to develop a different, new business model. Yes, this may be accompanied by lower profit margins and hence lower dividend flows in the future. That does not mean that the bank, if it is capitalised properly, is still unable to simply grant credit. It is about that leap of thought, but I will discuss it with Mr Knot. It's really gonna be a different type of bank. However, this does not mean that it is no longer able to fulfil its social tasks, including lending. Mr Van Dijck has asked a question about Mr Stiglitz. I had an animated debate with him, which can be found on the website of the John Adams Institute, a Dutch foundation. There's the video report from that debate. That could also be nice for Mr Van Dijck, I think. Then there's the financial sector. Deutsche Bank, of course, attracts a lot of attention. How do we look at Deutsche Bank? According to the information we have and the stress test, Deutsche Bank has no liquidity problem. He has large liquidity buffers and no solvency problem. Deutsche Bank meets the capital ratios, but has problems, like many banks, in terms of profitability. In addition, he has major legacy problems, so problems from the past: scandals in which he is involved. Over and over again he gets the bill presented, including very high fines from the United States. This means that Deutsche Bank must restructure, adjust the balance sheet. He too must develop another earning model. By the way, Deutsche Bank is much more of a business bank than a retail bank. The name suggests it's a German bank, but almost half of the balance sheet is in London. That makes it a special institution. How do we anticipate risks associated with this? Direct exposure from the Dutch financial sector is very limited. Indirectly, in terms of contagion and trust, there can of course be a much greater effect if Deutsche Bank were to get into trouble. But, as I said, both liquidity and solvency are good. The Dutch government attaches great importance to the underlying principles of the banking union. I don't need to talk about that for long. We believe it is crucial that the resolution framework, as we have agreed, should be applied to any bank that is in trouble, large or small. This is the only way to make the financial sector fundamentally healthy. I cannot say much more about that at the moment. Then there is the dividend policy of banks, which Mr Nijboer has asked for. The regulator should be able to stop dividend payments. A declaration of no objection will now have to be given in advance. I too believe that dividend policy should be based on the possibility of doing so. Banks are primarily required to comply with their obligations, including keeping capital ratios in order. The supervisors will see to that. They have the powers to do so and, as far as I am concerned, they are adequate to stop or limit unwanted dividend payments if necessary. Supervisors may also require additional buffers where there are specific risks, cyclical risks or country risks. The buffer requirement must also be met before dividends can be paid. Mr Nijboer advocates reversal. However, I am not in favour of no dividend being paid in principle unless the supervisor agrees. I think it would be extremely difficult for our banks. the cost of raising funds on the capital market. As you know, they must be able to do so. So this doesn't seem like the right order. The regulator should simply focus on meeting capital requirements, and on buffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u214	The supervisor must be keen on that. I am aware that the central bank has certain powers. However, our central bank has sent a letter stating that financial institutions pay dividends and that they lack powers to counter that, so that investors are rewarded and the bank is at risk at the same time. I take a letter from the Netherlands Bank to the Chamber, in which the Minister is called upon to do something about it, very seriously. What will the Minister do with this recommendation from the Netherlands Bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u215	I'm going to talk to the Dutch Bank about it. If I have to understand this recommendation in such a way that in future we will have to authorise all situations before dividend payments can be made, I am not prepared to do so. I don't think that's the right way to go. In specific situations there is the possibility to give prior consent. This is regulated, for example when buying back shares or when a distribution or dividend will lead to a situation where the bank no longer meets the capital requirements. Then the bank can say: we will stop it now and you will only get permission again after the ratios have been met. But broadening to all situations at all times so first have to give permission and only then pay dividends I do not find the right way. I go into consultation with DNB on what kind of enlargement is needed and where there is insufficient competence. I have already expressed my view on this. I will return to the Chamber with what the consultation with DNB has resulted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u216	Nor, in my view, was the Dutch Bank's plea that any dividend payment should be made subject to a statement of no objection. I think that's pretty strong, too. Why would you limit that from a 20% equity bank? But in the danger zone, it would be a good thing if the European Central Bank had a lot of far-reaching powers in it. The Netherlands has already suffered from two nationalized banks, but this is still happening in Germany, Italy and Portugal. If the Dutch Bank points this out, I count my blessings. The Minister is going to find out exactly what the Dutch Bank wants, but that will not be what he fears. I am looking forward to this, because I really want the regulators to be able to intervene and that we should not be able to do so afterwards, if it has gone wrong or if the capital has gone to investors, check it out and the taxpayer is back at the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u217	When it comes to the question of what situations we find it so precarious that the regulator should be able to apply this power, I am prepared to look into it with DNB. When it comes to the fact that in these precarious situations the power is not strong enough, I am prepared to look into it. But if it is meant to be so, at least I understood Mr Nijboer in the first term -- that a vgb obligation, a declaration of no objection, is now necessary for all dividend payments, I really think that goes too far. I do not want our banks to get into trouble in terms of access to the capital market. I will return with a letter to the Chamber after I have spoken to DNB about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u218	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u219	I've only got three topics left. Mr Nijboer asked whether the legal obligation of care could be strengthened. He is concerned with the responsibility of financial parties when there are high interest rates on mortgages. I think this has been adequately arranged. There's the legal duty of care. The financial service provider must therefore inform the consumer if there are substantial changes in relation to information previously provided. In addition, the bank or other mortgage providers are free to inform a customer when there are possibilities to transfer the mortgage or interest payment. That's what they're free to do. It is not a duty to inform customers about this. There is currently an investigation by the AFM into how banks deal with the new rules for early redemption. That's about the penalty interest on transfers. The investigation also concerns the information provided to customers in this respect. The AFM expects it to be ready by the end of November. I suggest that we discuss the fulfilment of the duty of care and whether mortgage providers are active enough in informing customers, re-entering at the end of November on the basis of the research. Then the Dutch financing institution. We are now working very closely with the Ministry of EZ on its development. We use the reports of Jeroen Kremers at this point. He has done work with a number of others. VNO has also expressed views on it. We see at least two fields where bottlenecks exist. This concerns, first of all, small loans SME-related. We already do a lot as a government we have many instruments, but very fragmented, also shredded at different institutions. We believe there is a real profit to be made by bringing these instruments together at an institution that is professionally looking at what is needed, always complementary to what the market can offer, so that SMEs can also continue to invest. The second major issue concerns larger public investment, or investments that may be private but serve a large public purpose. The energy transition is an example. There is sometimes a financing problem, but not always. Sometimes it is also just an organizational problem of homogenizing, grouping, organizing the projects. An interesting case is energy saving in schools. There is a huge amount of climate and energy gains to be made. Also in terms of students' ability to concentrate when there is better air in the room. These are complex investment projects for an individual school. These are types of projects where there is a lot of need right now. They're hard to get through, even financially. We believe that a new financing institution could play a pivotal role in this area too. The design and the naming of it will come later this autumn. Finally, Mrs Schouten asked a question about the financing of corporations. I graduated from Agricultural University once. So it's gonna make my heart beat faster. Mrs Schouten has noted that the financing of corporations sometimes faces problems. Together with the PvdA, she has written an initiative paper on corporations. I would suggest that Mrs Schouten zoom in on the problems identified and what is needed to resolve them. Maybe something new or something extra should happen. I'm very willing to take that seriously. I would like to take a more precise look at the problem areas in common. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u220	Thank you. We'll suspend until 8:00, and then we'll continue with the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u221	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u222	Mr. Chairman. Oh, my God, it's hard. Maybe he'll automatically shoot back to the old station?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u223	I'll put it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr President, a lot of different questions have been asked and I would like to start with the tax authorities' draw-out scheme. At your request, I made cubes. The first block is the development of the volume and costs, and informing the House of Representatives about this. The second block is about everything that has to do with the elderly and the final levy on the so-called Early retirement scheme (RVU). My third block is about continuity at the IRS. The fourth is about my analysis, but also about the next steps. I also deal with Mr Omtzigt's questions on the status of a major project. After that, I'll deal with all kinds of questions that aren't about the IRS. The whole story of course begins with the change at the Tax Office. That change, which is well-known, I see as the basis, the only one, frankly, for a credible future for the Tax Administration. This is the way, I think, and when visiting the so-called breeding room, the various spokesmen may have been able to convince themselves of that. This is the road, but he's bumpy. I have already shared this fact with the Tax Administration, which is extremely professional in checking and executing, but not necessarily in innovation: we have little experience with that too. The Tax Administration has to rejuvenate to bring in new ideas, but has hardly any flow and is greyed out. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De Belastingdienst kan niet anders dan naar de samenleving de luiken opengooien en transparant zijn over deze verandering, maar was tot nu toe zeer gesteld op haar grote autonomie.]] In short, on the one hand, this is a tough journey, but on the other hand, it is crucial; you only need one lunatic who is willing to pull it, and I find it fascinating to do so. We are going to a tax administration with which, also tested by externals, we can bring in 750 million more by a smaller tax gap and at the same time we have less costs by a smaller service. A lot has happened to that too. We've connected all the systems in the last two and a half years. That is a small revolution compared to the 50 years before. We have also set up the already mentioned breeding room where 140 people work who invent things from day to day that improve the control and execution and ultimately reduce the tax gap. There are all promising projects on the way and there are hitrates that rise: I occasionally carry lists with me with the last stand. I won't read that list here, but the things that seem to go better under the hood are my motivation to do this. This means that in the long term there will be no place for 5,000 of the current people in the Tax Office. For them, we wanted to make a proper arrangement. This ultimately means that not 5,000 people leave the Tax Administration with this scheme, but currently between 5,200 and 5,800, in a multi-annual trajectory until 2020. That's about 10% transcribed to what was foreseen. Mr Koolmees mentioned that yesterday, and I saw the naughty twinkling in his eyes, a complete drain. I would like to give Mr Koolmees his rhetoric: everyone chooses his own words, especially in election time. That may be all, and certainly with comments to my address, but I am getting serious now, let us try not to worry Dutch taxpayers, who are also payment recipients, with things that are not going on. Something went wrong, but let us not let the Dutch think that they will not get their allowance or refund. That is the arrangement as it is currently working out. There is also room in the papers and budgets for the coming years for a non-voluntary outflow scheme to drain people through directions, but then "if" and "where necessary" and through all kinds of routes that do not lead to dismissal, but to outflow from the Tax Administration. Then what are the costs of this? Mr Omtzigt is right to say that different numbers have been put into circulation, also because of the way in which this has been incorporated into the budget. 5,000 people eventually go out and 1,500 come in. This replacement of staff will result in a lasting saving: the netting of the two. On the other hand, there are temporary costs: transition costs, switch costs, as it is called, but also material costs, ICT investments. If you look at what that does from year to year, you can see that the maximum cumulative investment is below 800 million. That's the port of the letter I sent this morning. In the end, this will lead to savings. That is not in the budget because I put it behind a fence. It seemed to me unwise to simply add the budgets for this renewal operation to the budgets of the Tax Administration. I still think so, but Mr Omtzigt will not be able to suppress a smile. Well, then it's gonna be a little bit of hope. There must be conditionality. The plan must be good before the budget is released. And before Mr Omtzig storms at the microphone, I shall say it myself: then, of course, we need to follow the procedures. If the money's behind a fence, then whoever has the key should be able to handle that key. Then people with the right papers have to join that fence. That is why it has been in several places in the 2016 budget. The inflow and ICT costs were on the so-called supplementary post in the state budget. The switching costs, the outflow scheme, including the stay in the intermediate organisation, were included in the general budget of the Treasury. Only the staff that was recruited was on the Tax Administration's budget. I have tried to summarize all this in an overview table. I hope that this is clear. The investment is serious. It accounts for about 750 million, but it does not go into the billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u225	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u226	No, that is not quite the case, but I am almost certain that Mr Omtzigt would like to ask a question on this very point. Maybe that's the time, but I'll leave that to the chairman. I'm not done with the cube yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u227	That is indeed the point. Thanks for the explanation, by the way. The memo we received at the beginning of the debate made it clear where the difference is in those numbers. That wasn't from the moon. That came from some anomaly. The Secretary of State says the money for the switch, for the outflow, was behind the fence. That fence was that Investment Committee that was appointed. Now I have two questions: who is on that Investment Committee and has that Investment Committee authorised and commented on the outflow scheme that we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u228	May I take this piece with me in my piece "analysis and next step"? That's where it belongs. There's also more to be said about it. There are also a number of things that cannot be said about this, but I will make that clear. I would ask Mr Omtzigt's permission to include his question later in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u229	I think that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u230	The cost of the entire programme, specifically of the outflow scheme, has been set in the budget as 645 million. There we go to the current estimate, which is not yet ready, of some 70 million. That is an excess of 10%, which, by the way, is dominantly linked to the final levy, which I am still coming up with. Mr Merkies asks why that is not yet known. People have signed up for the scheme, so it is no longer possible to register, but that is different from the fact that they are eventually leaving with a scheme. That's always the difference in the media: you can call very high numbers of people who sign up for something, but not everyone who signs up decides to leave eventually. We don't yet know exactly which reporters will eventually leave. The estimate is therefore still an estimate, as I say to Mr Merkies. This results in an overrun to be included in the Autumn Note for 2016. Moreover, the financial overrun in 2017 is very limited. The figures for that year correspond fairly to the original planning. That amount will have to be covered in one way or another from, for example, the reservation for unforeseen included in the programme. The remainder of the amount will have to be found in one way or another in the Tax Office's budget over the next seven years of the programme. This budget has a total budget of around 3 billion per year, and it will have to be included somewhere. This is multiannual and is therefore about a more limited proportion of the 70 million. The Court has been informed at various times about the initial risk and the subsequent greater recourse to the scheme than foreseen. It began with the fact that I was informed in mid-March, together with my neighbour, the Minister of Finance. At that time it was not called "excess of the volumina" but there was a risk of that. That was closely monitored at the time. Both in the first half-year report and in the letter, the Court has been informed that there are risks, that the volumes are increasing and that it could be an outflow in the order of 5% of the workforce by 2017. That's what it's gotten to be. This report also states that the financial consequences of this need to be further assessed. That also makes sense, because the talks with the unions had of course started immediately. It was a very intensive journey. As a result, it is also not known what you come up with as an alternative. In the end, the settlement was closed. That was also reported to the Chamber one day after the settlement was concluded in June. In the interim, in May, questions were put to the House. There was, but with more certainty, the answer that it would also have financial consequences. That way it was reported to the Chamber. And after that, we have also been told about this in letters and answers to Parliamentary questions, which we are now debating. Now I am at the end of my piece about the volume and the costs. I'm moving on to the elders. For the elderly, of course, the Tax Administration is bound by the law. However, if the image is created, which sometimes becomes reality, that in times when we as a country have struggled to make ends meet, leaving the elderly with a generous arrangement, it gives us an extremely uncomfortable feeling. It is everyone's right to make use of those legal possibilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................. What's that all about? This is a direct consequence of the work-to-work arrangements. This is a state-wide scheme under ARAR; it ended up in the ARAR in 2013. This scheme describes an incentive premium which is dependent on years of service but not on age or from time to pension. Age discrimination is prohibited. The lawyers who are in favour of this regulation all day long also confirm that it is not possible to apply age discrimination in this area. There's one exception. On justified grounds, you may treat older people differently from what is allowed under the rules, but this can only be done with an agreement from the unions. I would like to leave aside the question of whether this legitimate ground existed here, but it has been in this arrangement since the beginning. The scheme stated that there would be another clause for older people in cases which would apply after 1 July. From 18 months before the AOW date the pension date actually does not exist any more than another premium applies. That limitation has therefore been introduced, but this does not happen very often. It is not easy either, and the law does not offer many possibilities. This certainly requires agreement between the social partners. The scheme then has a greater attraction for older people. This has been the case from the moment that the scheme is defined in this way. In fact, I think that the lack of checks-and-balances is the most avenging aspect of the final levy due. The Tax Administration is, by all accounts, the enforcer of that tax. That final tax is also paid by the Tax Administration. That's just off the budget. The Tax Administration is treated exactly as any other taxable person in the same situation, but it is indeed collected by an inspector of the same Tax Administration. This, of course, should have been included in those estimates. That is where the lack of checks-and-balances has been most visible as far as I am concerned. I must say, also in the direction of Mr Omtzigt, that the RVU is not a fine. It is an additional wage tax to make early retirement unattractive. So you're paying it as a percentage of that exit bonus. It's not a fine. You get a fine if you do something that's against the rules. If you don't pay something, you get a fine. This is to discourage something. It's just a tax. It is a normal tax payable on the final charge. Since that final charge is of course an important part of the 645 million, the RVU payment is also quite a considerable amount. The amount that the Tax Administration as an employer has to pay for additional taxes is somewhere between 150 and 200 million; it is still known, because we do not know that yet. On balance, this represents an overrun of 70 million over the entire budget. The RVU final charge is therefore a larger part than the excess. The good accountant can then say that costs must be reduced somewhere. That is also true, because originally a very large part of the movers had foreseen that she would stay in Switch for a number of years, not to do core work there for the Tax Administration but to do useful work at a rich level. That number is getting considerably smaller. The flow organization Switch is getting smaller and is also staying in it for a shorter period. That is where the costs are lower. The extra taxes the Tax Administration has to pay are higher. On balance, according to the estimate, this is not the final figure of EUR 70 million, which must therefore be covered in the way I have just mentioned. Mr Omtzigt says: these are fine arrangements, but how can they be compared to the defence regulations? It's hard to compare it, because Defense isn't moving under the ARAR; Defense is in another system. DOD also has a departure plan. In addition, the well-known AOW-hole plays. All this is not yet crystallized; it is still pressure in motion. As far as I am concerned, it is difficult to compare situations. So I can't compare the Defense Case to the Tax Administration Case. I come now to a question which is at least as important, a question that looks forward, a question about continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u231	I hear all this and I feel a sense of shame. In the Netherlands, the cabinet has pulled the strings with regard to the dismissal compensation, the WW rights and the protection of someone who loses his job and at the same time this State Secretary is handing out €92.000 per official on a part of his department, the Tax Office. He can't sell that, can he? My first question to the Secretary of State is: can this whole arrangement be put back into the trash? I understand that no one has made use of this arrangement. Everyone is still in the stand: I haven't said yes yet; I have said I agree, but it still has to be implemented. My second question is: how can the Secretary of State sell that he is going to distribute €92.000 per official of taxpayers' money for which the whole of the Netherlands has to work hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u232	I share Mr Van Dijck's uncomfortable feeling. However, I do not share anything else. This is a right enshrined in the law. We can find all kinds of things here in the Chamber, as is certainly the case with this spokesperson, but this is the law. The MPs may find anything, but it is a legal right. We can't blame those people for using it. We can't blame the tax authorities for respecting those rights and implementing the rules properly. The debate on rights is a different debate than the debate on the use of rights. We'll have to be as strict about that as we are. We cannot say: we have made an arrangement, but now that it is being used, as has happened before, we do not like it and we turn on the path. Everyone's free to say he doesn't agree with the arrangement, but she's there and she's anchored in the law. These people have a right to it. We can expect a great deal of restraint. For example, if older people had already announced leaving and had already taken the decision, they should not be expected to benefit from that scheme. That is also a consequence of that law; there are legal grounds for it. This would be a really unnecessary application of the system. I would not like to make the word'sober' applicable throughout the scheme, but the purpose of its application is to be sober. This is in the hands of the Tax Administration, but it is not possible in this country to abolish or ignore an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u233	Sober, sober... €92,000 is a golden handshake, a bonus. If that were to happen to banks, this Chamber would be too small. What are we talking about? I get a bit of a déjà vu feeling, because last week I was standing here with this secretary of state. Then he also said, "Yes, the law, the law, we have to abide by the law." We are legislators here. We'll change the law tomorrow if we have to. And you, Secretary of State, should have considered before you introduced this moloch of a departure scheme: "What would this mean according to the law and what will it cost? Hey, it's gonna cost three-quarters of a billion; then we're gonna have to think three more times before we start spending 750 million on a departure scheme for civil servants in an IRS." You should have. And if we in the Chamber had said 'change the law and only open it to a certain scale or age category', we would have done so! Then we would have changed the law! We are the legislature here. We're not executors, like the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u234	That's exactly how it is. The Tax Administration is the executive and is therefore unable to change laws as soon as they do not give birth. You can do that here in this room. The Tax Administration implements the laws as the laws are. That's the job of the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u235	Yeah, that's his job. I must therefore congratulate the government because it has managed to impose the biggest post levy of the year on itself, not on the European Union but on itself this year. That's pretty good. My question is this. The Secretary of State admits that until 1 July this special arrangement could be used, and no longer after 1 July. This means that it does not follow from the law, because otherwise the law would not be correct, but from the regulation. It is therefore this specific scheme, which has been agreed, which allowed people to receive as a bonus two months before their AOW date 24 months, being two years' income. That's a 200% bonus. If that had happened in the financial sector, Minister Dijsselbloem would have gone up against the roof, because there it was limited to 20%. But these people could get a 200% bonus. That's what they're offered. The Secretary of State says there was no other way under the law. Can he give one other example of one other departure scheme? There have been quite a few in the state government where people could get a bonus greater than the salary they could earn until they retire? Because that seems like a logical maximation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u236	I have not taken stock of all the departure arrangements, but let us be very clear about what is going on in the law. In principle, age discrimination is not allowed unless it is in agreement with the unions prior to the conclusion of that agreement and there is also a so-called legal basis. I do not think it is so often that, as in this case, at least after that date, it has been possible to make a scheme less attractive to the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u237	It's not the law. I note that the Secretary of State is unable to give one other example. If this had to be done under the law, it would have happened with all the reorganisations that had taken place with the government, the state services and elsewhere. But since the Secretary of State is not able to mention one other round of dismissal for the past five years in the government or in another government where this has also happened, I conclude that the arrangement has happened specifically and that someone has given permission to do so. Is that right? And does the Secretary of State think this is a waste of taxpayers' money or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u238	We do not have a debate here on the ARAR. If we had that, I would certainly have all these examples at hand. I'm dealing with the law here. With all the specialists from the Empire at the table it is concluded that there is no very good ground here to exclude older people, but that this has been in the scheme since the beginning for the period after 1 July. So that has not been renegotiated, but has been in it from the beginning. For the applicants after 1 July this makes it less attractive. What I think of this arrangement, I said at the beginning. It makes me feel uncomfortable, but the law is the law. There's a reason for that, too. I'm gonna have to do the ARAR right now, too. We are talking here too easily about retirement dates, while it is often about the AOW date. From someone who's 64 years old, you can say he's got six months left to work. So why would you give someone like that a bounty? The ARAR has been set up to allow that person to remain in service with the Empire for another five and a half years. That's fine, because we're gonna be working for longer. But if that person has just one of the functions that will expire, the ARAR offers the possibility to allow this person to leave with an exit bonus, while otherwise he could have worked there for another five and a half years. That's the thought behind it. I'm not saying I would have thought of this myself, and I'm not saying I didn't. I'm not in charge of the ARAR. It is up to the Tax Administration to properly implement this. These are all the legal advices put together, and they make it difficult for older people to be excluded in a categorical way from the outset. That's the legal judgment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u239	I asked two questions and I want a clear answer on both of them. This can also be followed in the second term. The first question was: can you tell me one reorganisation or all the reorganisations to the government where people who were just before their AOW-date could get a payout that was a plural of what they could still earn up to their AOW-date? If the Secretary of State doesn't have the answer ready, I understand. But then I'd like to hear it in the second term, because I think it's unique. Secondly, I would like a clear answer to the question as to whether this is a waste of taxpayers' money in the eyes of this VVD Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u240	I'm not gonna throw away a government arrangement that people are entitled to here as a waste. This arrangement gives many an uncomfortable feeling, but it is enshrined in the law. It has been considered for that reason and I am not going to give that title to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u241	This is not enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u242	That's been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u243	Otherwise, the Secretary of State must mention the law in which that is stated. It's not in any law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u244	I believe that the Secretary of State makes it clear how the financial flows ran. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has admitted that things have gone wrong. I have a technical question about this. This is a comprehensive reform of the Tax Administration. It is necessary to work digitally. This is $750 million. I have just heard that a fine of 150 to 200 million has to be paid to the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u245	No fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u246	Well, fine; I'll say it in my own words. These are RVU regulations, final charges. It's all complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u247	Final charges, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u248	You pay it when you make early retirement possible. That's 50%. So if you take the amount that's underneath, between 450 and 600 million out of that 750 million must have had to do with people who were already retiring. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u249	No. It's an addition of people who... Let's see. It's complicated what you're talking about. The answer to this question must remain, frankly, guilty, because this is very complicated. I'm not that good at this arrangement. Again, if I had to defend the ARAR during a debate, I would know. Who you're applying the scheme to is covered. This is not just about the elderly. I don't know the rules exactly, so let me do it differently. Instead of guessing the amounts, I propose that the amounts be sent to the Chamber as soon as they are established. Then we don't have to guess anymore, but we know where to go. Then the costs are transparent and it will be seen that tax payments are significantly higher than in the original budget. Even if they end up with the Empire, that is not relevant for a taxpayer from the Tax Administration. A smaller part goes to the stay in that intermediate organization called Switch. The cost of this has been reduced again. Ultimately, the overrun is estimated to be about 10% of the total budget for this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u250	Yeah, that makes sense. They're not going to another job anymore. There was Switch for "Because they're retiring." That has become a much larger group. I have a substantive question for the Secretary of State. What does he think of this arrangement? Is it reasonable for people who are already about to retire to receive so much money in the event of a reorganisation with public money? Is that a reasonable arrangement? To be honest, I think it is a waste of taxpayers' money, but I am also curious about what the Secretary of State thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u251	I'm talking about a law that I've experienced for months as a complex but which I'm not about. It's the law. I also represent the people who used it. I can't give a balanced opinion on that. I have said that it gives me an uncomfortable feeling, and that is undoubtedly also the feeling that lives in this Chamber. It's a little too easy for me to grab a BZK-law for a while and without me knowing the backgrounds of it I can give a judgment on it. I don't like that much. I've got a rock in my stomach, but I don't want to bring it any further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u252	It's a question of clarity. It's about the ARAR all the time. That's the legal status of civil servants, isn't it? Is that the law the Secretary of State keeps talking about? Does ARAR have the position of a law? If things need to be adapted, is it necessary to have the agreement of trade unions and employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u253	It is underlying regulation under the ARAR with legal force. Again, if we are going to have a whole debate on the ARAR here, you will have me on several occasions in an area that I do not know much about. I think your neighbor in the benches knows a lot more about that, but that's not the one who has to give the answers here. I don't know the answer to all the questions about the ARAR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u254	This may have caused some confusion. The Secretary of State is talking about the law, but he means the ARAR, the legal status regime that has been agreed upon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u255	With the underlying regulation underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u256	It has legal power and therefore it is not easy to deviate from it unilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u257	The legal judgment is harsh here. You cannot make one-sided changes in the treatment of elderly people, for example. You can't. So not in whom you give the right to that arrangement and not in how much you give that person. There is a very harsh judgment on this and that has been explicitly reviewed by the administrator of that law, namely BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u258	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u259	Looking ahead, continuity is important. The total outflow is slightly higher. It's about a multi-annual period. That is not something that is directly threatening continuity. For continuity, however, it is important that more people leave at the end of 2016 than planned. A few hundred more. We will be able to do that again in 2017. So there's a short period in which the tax authorities have to take into account more travellers than they thought. There are several compensatory measures. The movers, for example, have shorter working hours than those who are new inflowing because of the system of the PAS-Day, which I had given myself a little more thought about and which was not flattering. The PAS-Day means that every day there are several hundred seats empty from people who have a PAS-Day on that day. The movers have more PAS days than the invaders. So that saves FTEs again. The investment agenda and all works under it are also beginning to bear fruit. This also applies to centralisation movements from the past. Let me give an example of the administrative processes. They have often been concentrated and merged in recent years. A significant number of administrative processes used to take place in 40 places in the country and now in 5 places. But so far it has not been possible because of limited mobility and the limited outflow to reap the benefits in terms of efficiency gains. I can do that now. If you go from 40 to 5 administrative processes in a particular area, you have efficiency improvements. You can harvest that now. People couldn't leave and they are now. Automatically, you have that advantage. Of course, this amounts to recruitment of new employees. Is it a big number? New employees are recruited, people flow through and the critical functions allow people to flow from the bottom to the top. These are all kinds of ways to reduce the risk of continuity, but it is always good to bear in mind that these challenges are part of an organisation such as the Tax Administration. Let's just follow the thinking model. An average organisation of 30,000 people in the Netherlands brings in around 2,000, 2,500 new people every year. They all need to be trained, trained and so on. So it's part of an organization like this to be able to do that. We may be a little out of recruitment, just like moving up and working in and training, but that's part of this organization. It had come anyway, because the IRS has been severely greyed out. So if we hadn't done this surgery, we'd have seen it in a few years, because the elderly would have left. This service must therefore now and later prepare for much greater labour mobility. Much more yards, much more training, much more flowing: that's just part of it; that's part of an organisation of 30,000 people. The overall picture of the management of the Tax Administration is that continuity is not at stake, but that specific processes require attention, with customisation. Those processes are identified. The processes of the Tax Administration are reported periodically anyway, the so-called risk management of the Tax Administration. That is what Mr Omtzigt has asked for. The operational risks of the Tax Administration are therefore constantly under review. Risk analyses shall be carried out every month. That's what's being reported. It looks at the content of the processes or the capacity. So that's how it's being watched. The general impression, the overall picture, is that continuity is not at stake but that specific functions require attention. Back to the analysis. All in all, my impression is that I have also written down that the core is that the process has not been followed properly. The checks-and-balances were flawed. That has to do with too much haste. It has to do with too much orality. It has to do with too little recording. It has to do with too few compelling strange eyes. I find that painful in that sense, because I myself have prepared the checks-and-balances prior to the journey. I set up a fence, a committee with outsiders in it led by an outsider. It's even been in the Official Journal. I would like to say to Mr Omtzigt that we do not have names on the table here. I understand that the press is quite different from this Chamber, but it bothers me that sometimes names of individual officials of the Tax Administration are published in the newspapers in a not always nuanced way. That's not right. We must provide our employees with a safe environment. Mistakes are being made. Sometimes things go wrong. But we shouldn't have naming-and-shaming in the paper. I'm committed to sticking to the probably pious side of the spectrum. I myself was in the position of being on the other side and running those kinds of risks. I therefore invite Mr Omtzigt to look in the Official Journal. In it is the composition. That's how we're gonna do it. I'm gonna stay a little on the safe side. I really want to keep it clean. I have a reason for this and of course I have a history of it myself. Why do I regret that the procedures have not been followed here? Not only because I set them up myself, but I also find it painful because recently so much has been improved at the IRS. So many new people have come in. So many new people have joined the IRS at a very high level. People have come in who share the crazy passion I have for improving the tax administration. They're in the back of the hall. It is a necessary, but also fascinating adventure. Then it is a pity that it is not possible at such a crucial moment simply to follow the procedures, just the rules that we have made ourselves. I can't say otherwise. This old culture of autonomy, as far as I am concerned, is very persistent. I do not want to give Mr Omtzigt an answer to exactly what has happened. Who didn't report to who exactly? I don't want to do that for a second. I don't want to provoke whodunnit. I believe that the safety of the executives is to the benefit of not saying: Pietje had against Jantje or this committee did not have against that committee... I do not want that. I want to keep it very clean. We should not be looking for the official behind the facts. I am here politically responsible for the outcome, for the checks-and-balances and for carrying out the checks-and-balances. That must be addressed to my address. I don't want to be in the game of who should have done what on what date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u260	That wasn't the question either. The question is what advice should be given to the Secretary of State. Is he advised in advance to implement, adapt or not implement this scheme? That question is therefore relevant, because the Secretary of State specifically included the investment committee in order to be able to say to the Chamber: I have an extra test. Then it is perfectly logical for the Chamber to ask whether that test was carried out before the 700 million euro was released and, if so, what that test looked like. If necessary, with Article 68 of the Constitution and everything else, I would like to ask whether we can see the test that has been done before we have said yes to this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u261	I don't want to go that way. I have made it very clear that these processes and therefore the checks-and-balances have gone wrong, but I want to stay away from whom I should have been responsible. I'm responsible for this. I guarantee Mr Omtzigt that things didn't work out the way they should have. That's the answer. That's my analysis, too. I see it as my role to do everything in my power to make sure that things are going well. It must not happen a second time in such important decisions, not least on the investment agenda itself, that a process is not properly carried through. I would ask Mr Omtzigt not to dig into what has happened in the civil service. Then it becomes a whodunnit. I guarantee him here that I have come to the full conviction that the process has not been properly followed and I want to do everything I can to ensure that it does happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u262	Mr President, I am pressing and I am going to appeal to you. I'm so sorry. The Secretary of State set up this committee to say to the Chamber: I have a good opinion. Then the Chamber has the right of inspection. There's no secrecy here. It's not a state secret, it's no other secret. In its controlling task, the Chamber has the right to see what this has looked like for a State Secretary who wants to spend 700 million. There is no reason not to provide this. As President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you whether it falls within the scope of Article 68 of the Constitution, the active duty of intelligence, to give this document to the Chamber for inspection during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u263	You appeal to me, Mr Omtzigt. I can't judge the status of that piece. It's true that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u264	Then we ask whether it's a state secret piece or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u265	No, no, Mr. Omtzigt! According to Article 68 of the Constitution, the cabinet has an active duty to inform the Chamber, but I cannot assess the status of the document. I don't know if it contains secrets, is confidential or affects employees' privacy. I'm mostly looking at the Secretary of State. He's a better judge than I am. I would like to give him an opportunity to clarify this. Maybe we can't do that now, but we can do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u266	Let me talk about this between the time limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr President, I would like to look forward to it between the deadlines. The names may be painted black. That's fine, because that's really not what this is about. It's the advice that's been given to me. It just needs to be made public, otherwise it won't do us any good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u268	Then it comes back in the second term or... well, I'll leave it to the Secretary of State for now, because he can judge it better than I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u269	I'm saying again that I don't think there's any point. I'm not saying there's no right, but there's no point. The conclusion that you might draw after you've studied it all, I've done that... is that the process hasn't gone through properly. That's the conclusion I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u270	The Secretary of State states that we are in our right if we ask for it. I'm just pointing him to the Constitution. He himself took the oath on that, Article 68. I simply expect that between the first and the second term to be made available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u271	We made a trial agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u272	Fine, then it comes back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u273	Mr President, agreements are both sides. There hasn't been any appointments made here. This is the date of trial for you to abide by the Constitution. The Constitution is the law upon which you and I take the oath. Things are public unless there is a legitimate reason to deviate from them. That is a state secret or the interest of the Dutch State, but it is never the interest of the Secretary of State. It is also important that we know how this process went until EUR 700 million was spent. That is why I want to have access to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u274	The agreement I referred to was the agreement to return to it in the second term. Other agreements have indeed not been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u275	That's it; that's how I understood it. Fine, this point comes back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u276	I'll come back to the 700 million. The Secretary of State admits that everything has gone wrong in the process and in the checks-and-balances. But it did go wrong with 700 million in taxpayers' money. I think the Secretary of State deals with it rather lightly when he says it went wrong; next time we'll do better. 700 million in taxpayers' money and then you hide behind the law! I think it just went wrong with the scheme itself. The scheme is open to 30 000 tax officials. Anyone could sign up! Of course you have 4,000 over 60s in between, because they run first to the exit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u277	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u278	They all want an early retirement and a big bonus of €75,000. My question is whether we can see this arrangement and the adapted regime after 1 July. The Secretary of State is hiding behind the law, but he could change the arrangement after 1 July so that it was suddenly no longer open to 60-plussers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u279	In fact, I would like to thank you for the fact that the regulation has been sent to you. You already have the arrangement. Okay, let's get real sharp. It is not an overrun of 700 million, but an overrun of an estimated 70 million. We've got to get that one zero off!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u280	I was not talking about an overrun, but about 700 million in taxpayers' money, the amount involved in this whole scheme. The question is whether it could have been done with much less and whether it could have been done much more effectively. There are 250 people who are already retired! They have already reached the AOW age and they now receive €75,000. It shouldn't get weirder. I would like to see the scheme and the scheme adapted after 1 July, because it seems that the leak of those 60-plussers could be seared after 1 July. Before 1 July, 4,000 people over 50 were still entitled to the scheme, almost half of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u281	I think the arrangement's already been sent to the Chamber. Let me take a look at this: Has the arrangement gone to the Chamber yet? Yes. The scheme was simply sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u282	I am making a point in addition to what Mr Omtzigt said, including what happens between the two deadlines. I understand that individual officials should not be mentioned here by name, and I fully share the view that this should not happen. It is not a trial of "Barbertje must hang"; I immediately agree with the Secretary of State. However, I think it is important that we should be able to check the procedure, the steps that have been taken and the considerations that have been made as a Chamber. So I am not concerned about Barbertje hanging, but I am concerned about the guarantees, the processes that have been followed and the considerations that have been made. It's not my job to reconstruct everything or to designate an individual, but I think it's good to reconstruct exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u283	I agree with that. Article 68 of the Constitution is important. We have just made a good trial agreement as far as I am concerned, provided that this does not lead to the Secretary of State saying again that it does not make any sense. According to the interpretation of Article 68, that cannot be a reason. There must be something of general interest not to send such a piece when the Chamber asks for it. That could be the case; I cannot judge that. The Secretary of State can assess that. But there must be such a general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u284	That wasn't a question. I have one more point in the block of outflow control. This is about the question of whether Mr Omtzig's suggestion is actually making this a major project. I've said before that I understand that idea. It even fits in with my idea of being transparent about the progress of the project. It could be an extra lock on the door in order to ensure that the procedures are followed. So I certainly will not oppose that; I think it can have a function in the direction of the Chamber. It's gonna take some customization. Big projects have so far been things like the Betuweline and everything. This isn't a Betuwe line because with a Betuwe line you know for years which pile you have to hit where and at which point along the route..... but it is a development project. If sufficient account is taken of the fact that this is a development project that continues along the way and in the first three months you have a clearer picture than in the first year, and in the first year a clearer picture than in the rest of the five years, I think it can be worked well. I must also give a small warning: this is about enforcement and, of course, politics should not interfere with enforcement. It is about reporting the project, but we should not be tempted, neither should I, to interfere in enforcement or enforcement priorities. In this respect, the Chamber must be given equal consideration to what the Chamber needs and how we can best organise it. That was my contribution to the IRS. Many other questions have been asked, and I will try to answer them quickly. I'll go to the spokesmen in order and start with Mr Merkies. He asked me what the next steps are against tax avoidance. That's eager! After reaching agreement with the OECD, we set a European speed record with the ATA Directive. That's what happened. We have the automatic information exchange and the country-by-country reporting. In the Tax Plan, Mr Merkies has already been able to find all kinds of measures. I would like to mention, for example, an adjustment of the interest-rate deduction restrictions following Mr Nijboer's initiative, and I refer to the innovation box. From the flash vbi's to the APV's, there are all kinds of things we do to prevent tax avoidance. Something's gonna come up soon. As Mr Merkies may know, part of the OECD philosophy is about treaties. We have a lot of them, and you can spend years implementing treaties. There will now be a so-called multilateral instrument. That means that you implement the outcomes in one stone into your treaties. That's in itself a smart way. With that, we are taking huge steps in one go. Those things are coming. Furthermore, we have the Ultimate Beneficial Owner register and the blacklists. Anyway, Mr Merkies knows these things. Those are the next steps. I think that multilateral instrument will be there very soon. Mr Omtzigt has asked a question about cars. That's the point I've discussed with him twice before. I think we were very much in agreement. Indeed, the 4% add-on rate for electric cars gives us a higher risk of overstimulant than understimulant. We share that view. I have promised to carry out an evaluation early in the process and to immediately consider whether it is necessary to adjust policy as from 2019. That's what we agreed on. Mr Omtzigt suggests that this percentage should be adjusted prematurely, but I think he agrees with me that there is no majority in this Chamber at the moment. Mr Omtzigt also asked whether box 3 was a legal expropriation. The Supreme Court has indicated that the current box 3 tax for the years 2010 and 2011 is lawful. But the Supreme Court has also indicated that this may be different if interest rates and returns remain low for a long time. The cabinet's commitment is therefore to move on to taxing real returns. The intermediate step in 2016 is certainly not perfect, but a system has already been introduced that moves along with interest rates and price developments. Mr Koolmees has an idea. He says: gut,...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u285	I would like to interrupt for a moment, because Mr Omtzigt has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u286	My question about the capital efficiency levy was a little more precise. We know the ruling of the Supreme Court, but does the government currently consider that, or has it received legal advice on this matter, it is possible that the current capital efficiency tax it intends to levy for 2017 is expropriation and therefore unlawful? Or does it think that it can legally levy taxes which are many times higher than, for example, interest on savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u287	We must not compare the standard returns that are fixed in the intermediate year with the normal return on a savings account. It can be read in the justification that there is also a question of portfolios. One third of the portfolios under one ton in box 3 are still not in savings. The capacity in box 3 between one tonne and 1 million even has an 80%/20% ratio. So there's only 20% savings. Savings an sich is not the only size. The cabinet is convinced that there is no expropriation for the coming year. But at the same time, the cabinet is convinced that it is inevitable at some point to move along with interest rates and returns, otherwise it would not only be legally vulnerable, but also socially unacceptable and politically unacceptable. We must therefore move towards a situation of real return, in which the returns will also be taken into account in the taxes to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u288	The Secretary of State said in a very interesting subtlety that it is legally vulnerable. Can he state exactly what the government sees as legally vulnerable at the moment to the capital efficiency levy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u289	No, I just said it's not legally vulnerable right now. However, if interest rates and returns on shares remain or become low in the coming years, they may become legally vulnerable. The High Council stated that this was not the case in 2010 and 2011, but that it could become legally vulnerable if a situation arises where there is a structural discrepancy. I'm gonna keep that line on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u290	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u291	Mr Koolmees has an idea. He says, "You're lowering the labor discount, why don't you raise the environmental tax?" That's his statement. First of all, the employment discount does not go down but goes up. Mr Koolmees thinks vertically, while all other Dutch think horizontally. Professional deformity is a very beautiful thing. However, the employment discount is rising. However, we do not agree with Mr Koolmees' proposal because the purchasing power of non-working people must also be balanced. The environmental tax is not at all low in the Netherlands. An average Dutch household pays twice as much environmental tax as a Belgian, German, English or French household. We are leading the world in the field of effective CO2 taxation. On earth! We are not short of that. We are a guide country. I see Mr Koolmees standing by the interrupting microphone. I wanted to bring up a whole different subject, the monument deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u292	Before everyone interrupts, I'd like to know how much longer you think you'll need.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u293	I'm almost through.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u294	Then I suggest you finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u295	Mr Koolmees and Mr Dijkgraaf have asked some similar, worrying questions about the deduction of monuments. The monument deduction is not demonstrably effective. A lot of maintenance is also done without that deduction. In addition, resources are spent on non-monumental purposes, from the power outlets to the central heating boiler. The aim is to make a better targeted and more efficient subsidy scheme. The remainder could be made available in order to avoid cuts in OCW's budget. The Minister of OCW intends to send a letter to the Chamber next week stating what the subsidy scheme looks like. The same story goes for the education deduction. Mr Koolmees also asked a question on this subject, as did Mrs Schouten. The added value of the training impulse also appears to be very limited. For every euro of tax money granted through the training deduction, there is 0 to 27 cents of investment in training; pay particular attention to this zero. That's what a voucher arrangement is for. The Minister of OCW will send a letter about this next week. Mrs Schouten asked whether the cabinet was prepared to submit heavier substance requirements to the Chamber. No? No, didn't she ask? Then what are we doing here? Ah, it was Mr. Grashoff! This is a personal mix-up that I'm embarrassed about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u296	Mr Grashoff is now offended!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u297	I won't be too specific! Mr Grashoff has therefore asked whether the substance requirements can be raised. Substance requirements are particularly relevant in the fight against abuse of treaties. We have made very great progress in this area. The BEPS project (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project) provides a wide range of measures. We are also going to implement it, for example through that multilateral instrument. I don't think I say anything strange when I say that the empty mailboxes have not only had their longest time, but will actually die out. Mr Dijkgraaf asked a question about the agricultural exemption. The ibo agro shows that the agricultural scheme contributes only to the policy objectives. The scheme is also being used less and less. I am sure that the Minister or the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs will be able to tell us more about this during the examination of the EZ budget. Mr Van Vliet's question on fiscal instrumentalism has been answered to my satisfaction by the Minister. Mr Van Vliet also asked whether the employment effects of phasing out the tax rebates could be passed on. That is a good proposal, because it happened last year. Oh, this question has already been answered. That's good. That's good. That's good. Mr Van Vliet proposed, in connection with the reforms, that the low-hanging fruit should be taken into account in taxation. Through the Acts, I say to Mr Van Vliet that the fruit is not low in taxation. It is useful, however, that the CPB also considers it useful to include it in a coalition agreement. Until then, we will do our utmost to simplify as much as possible between now and the end of the day, although the fruit is not low. That will happen again this year. Mr Van Vliet has asked questions about the flat tax. Every year, I think, someone volunteers to ask the questions about the flat fee. Last year it was the CDA, this year it is Mr Van Vliet. The answer is always the same. Low incomes are falling dramatically and high incomes are making enormous progress. This must then be compensated by an enormous surcharge system. To finance that, the rate has to rise again. Finally, the CPB concluded that this is detrimental to the employment rate. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u298	I have two issues on which I would like to ask one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u299	Two topics? You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u300	Yeah, but a lot of topics have come along in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u301	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u302	My first point concerns training deductions. If it can be more effective, I understand. But I do not understand very well at this time of lifelong learning, in which we want people to continue to retrain, re-educate and train, that at the same time so much is being cut back on education deductions. We are also going to include this point in the Tax Plan, where it is being dealt with. I come to my second point. The Secretary of State says the employment discount is going up. But compared to last year's Tax Plan, which allocated 5 billion to make work pay, 500 million less goes to the labour cut as part of the purchasing power package. I understand that, but we also proposed a lot of greening measures last year. The Secretary of State says that the Netherlands is a frontrunner in greening, but at the same time we still see a lot of gaps, for example in energy taxation: the differences between households and companies are huge. I notice that there is support for this in other parties. Surely these are sensible measures to make the tax mix greener while at the same time making work pay? This Secretary of State and this cabinet should be in favour of that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u303	I'll handle all three points at the same pace and hopefully even faster. I await the treatment of the Tax Plan and Mr Koolmees' contribution to the training deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u304	From Mr Van Weyenberg!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u305	Mr Van Weyenberg. Mr Koolmees once again explains to me the difference between horizontal and vertical. I think we're both right. I would not call the difference between households and companies simply a gap. If we start taxing companies like we tax households, there are very few companies left in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u306	This is a caricature, because meanwhile households are taxed 180 times more than companies. It could be a little more even. If we make companies more energy efficient and at the same time reduce taxes on work, is that a sensible idea? The Secretary of State must agree with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u307	Last year, we had a strong debate with the Secretary of State on a earner. The Secretary of State remembers that. A crucial point then was the loss of jobs: the amendment I tabled together with others would destroy 35,000 jobs. Now there is the purchasing power package that costs 21,000 jobs. It wasn't even in the documents; it's in the answer to question 113. I would like the Secretary of State's appreciation of this. Does this mean that we can talk again about last year's reasoning? 'Cause those jobs don't matter anymore anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u308	It is especially Mr Dijkgraaf himself who decides what he is talking to me about. I'll never stop him. Here, we have chosen to repair purchasing power, especially for the elderly. It has these effects. I have so far heard few people in this Chamber who are not prepared to repair the purchasing power of the elderly, and that simply has these effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u309	I do not yet hear anything about the appreciation of last year's reasoning. That played a crucial role. That is why it was not possible, when it was about supporting or not supporting a tax package. If we are going to debate again about a earner and the gap that is only growing, will I not get blamed if it costs jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u310	The targets are exactly the same as last year, i.e. within the framework of balanced income relationships and balanced income developments, achieving a maximum number of jobs or a minimum loss. Balanced income development is simply a point of the coalition agreement. It's a prerequisite. Inside, we must ensure that as many people as possible in the Netherlands can get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u311	I have two brief points. The first concerns greening of taxes. I know the Secretary of State's theorem, but I'm getting a little pissed off again. The Netherlands as a frontrunner on green taxes and as a fence closer to the actual greening. I'd like to put another challenge to the Secretary of State. If he comes up with a fantastic plan for getting tax greening more effectively, we're on speaking terms. We are not concerned with the level of green taxes, but with their effectiveness. If he wants to put his creativity into that, so do I, and then we come a step further. The second point concerns substance requirements. Yes, I know, of course, that the multilateral instrument is being worked on at OECD level. That's great. So far, however, I don't get the impression that it's going really fast and I think we need to be quick, especially since the huge number of letterboxes - for example, really is a very strong Dutch thing. We are leading the world in this and I therefore believe that we should also be leading the way in abolishing it. So I ask the Secretary of State if he can send us additional requirements in the matter of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u312	And that's what you called short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u313	I would also like to mention non-fiscal buttons on Mr Grashoff's radar screen. He always wants everything that has to do with the environment to regulate taxes. I want to broaden his instruments in his interest to non-fiscal as well, and then I await his plans. Mr Grashoff believes that the multilateral instrument must last for a very long time. I don't think so. For that reason too, we are not going to work on the subtrance requirements. We are going to focus on the multilateral instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u314	I find the answer to fiscal greening a little faint. Of course, Mr Wiebes knows this as well as I do. From GroenLinks we also have a lot of other things on the palette when it comes to achieving sustainability. However, the discussion with this Secretary of State focuses on the tax instruments. I do not think he gives at home when he says that it is actually not so effective. Then I say, let's make it more effective. That would be an interesting exercise, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u315	I asked the CPB whether it was the passing on of last year's standard households, the calculation of purchasing power with a number of examples that the Chamber then asked for, to do again this year for 2017. The CPB had too little time in preparation, but would like to do it. Can the Secretary of State ask him to do that exercise last year for this year and to forward it to the Chamber for the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u316	Can I answer that question in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u317	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u318	Fine. Let's move on to the second term. Is there a need for that? Sorry, that was a joke. Mr Omtzigt has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u319	Mr. Chairman. I don't even have to answer that question. You can tell by our faces. My question was to receive that memo for the second term, because that may depend on my questions. Maybe we can suspend for ten minutes. Then I'll have a word and the Secretary of State can send it to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u320	Yeah, that's fine. Anyone mind suspending for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u321	Then we can get that memo in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u322	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u323	Mr Merkies from the SP Group has the floor, but first of all Mr Koolmees has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u324	Is the play here now? I hear the Secretary of State say it's coming. Can we wait for that? And how long will that take?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u325	The play should be here any minute. I suggest we just get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u326	I suggest we wait until the play arrives. Some of my questions will undoubtedly be based on that piece. That's why I wanted it on break. I suggest that we have three minutes after receipt of the document and then we start the sitting again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u327	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Maybe he can tell us how long it's gonna be before we get the play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u328	The piece is already at the Registry; it is on the copier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u329	Then we'll wait a few more minutes. Mr Merkies can go back to his place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u330	We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. I call Mr Merkies on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u331	Mr. Chairman. The disadvantage of being the first is that I had to read this piece fastest. In the short time I had to read it, I didn't find any consideration as to why people sitting right before their pension get a huge sum. You would at least expect this to be taken into account. I don't read that back in the rush. That surprises me, but I'm sure others will be able to read it better and say more about it. The Secretary of State says he's very eager when it comes to the next steps against tax avoidance. A motion of mine has been adopted, in which the Court states that the measures taken at European level are only a first step in tackling tax avoidance. So it makes sense to ask about the next steps. I think it's gonna take a lot more. I know things are coming up, like blacklists on tax havens and public country-by-country reporting. Anyway, it still has to be done. I'd like to see that. But there will be another debate on that. I will not agree on everything with this cabinet. That's why we're other parties. I am referring, of course, to the cuts. Looking back on the past period, I find the story that they have been done to gain confidence not a strong argument from the Minister of Finance. We will not soon be able to agree on the ECB either. The ECB may find anything in government policy, but the government may not like the ECB's policy. We will be discussing this in detail shortly in a separate debate on the ECB. I had three motions, but I received a number of commitments. I'm glad. A commitment is about purchasing power growth. I understand that figures on the differences in purchasing power growth due to government policy come for the consideration of the Social Affairs budget. I understand that there will be an investigation from the General Court. What is not clear to me is what measures are at stake. Does that have to be discussed? That is, of course, important. What major measures from the previous period will be evaluated? I am, of course, pleased with what the Minister said about the financing institution. He doesn't have a name for it yet. I would say, call it the "National Investment Bank." That is what we originally called it when we proposed it. This was precisely a proposal aimed at providing loans to SMEs, but also to renewable energy projects. That is how we formulated it. Finally, I have a motion on power inequality. We talked about that. I would like to talk about more up-to-date figures. The last figure was from 2013. I think we can do better than that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the figures on capital inequality in the Netherlands are a few years behind;]] [[Whereas it is important for the political debate to have up-to-date figures;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of obtaining more up-to-date figures on the capacity inequality in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u332	I have another question for Mr Merkies. Yesterday, Mr Merkies, together with Mr Van Dijck, abolished the expats regime in order to reduce its own risk. I have just received an amendment from Mr Dijkgraaf, which abolishes the same expat scheme to finance development cooperation. Then the image comes up that the SP spends money twice. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u333	I also saw Mr Smaling's signature on that, but I honestly did not hear that, so I was simply not aware of that. By the way, it is not a question of completely abolishing it. It's just like one's own risk: we want to be very quick, but we can't, and so we're making a first step. There is quite a lot of money in this expat scheme, and it has already been said by the Chamber as a whole that it is felt that it has gone far too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u334	At the risk of being this and that, but the total expat scheme is 900 million. Yesterday, Mr Merkies and Mr Van Dijck abolished this in order to reduce their own risk by €100. And now 200 million is being spent in Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u335	That's not right. I am not under Mr Van Dijck's amendment. Now Mr Koolmees is making it a caricature, but I do support the principle of using it to reduce one's own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u336	I'm sorry, but now it's getting very surreal. The SP supports the principle of reducing its own risk. Yeah, we heard that. Now Mr Van Dijck has an amendment of EUR 900 million. That is not a small amendment, it is a reduction in the own risk of €100. Then Mr Merkies says that he supports the principle, but that he also needs the money for something else, namely for development cooperation and that we need to look at what we do with it. I'm sorry, but I think that's a weird thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u337	I have just explained that I saw, indeed, that Mr Smaling's name was underneath it. I didn't get that in time. That is a pity, but it is as it is. I would have liked this communication to have gone better internally, but my name is not under Mr Van Dijck's amendment. I'll add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u338	I also have another point that I would like to clarify. That's what happens with a two-day debate like this. I have read it, but yesterday Mr Merkies made a clear commitment that the SP's health fund plan will be included in the electoral programme of that party and then passed on to the Central Planning Bureau. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u339	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u340	I am asking this because a colleague of Mr Merkies, Mr Van Gerven, said earlier in an AO that this cannot be done, and that the Central Planning Bureau should first re-educate those words and adapt the models before that care fund could be passed on. Then what's the meaning of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u341	I can't tell you what the CPB can do, because that's up to the CPB itself. We say: this is our proposal, this is what we want to do. Next, the CPB must tell us how it is thought best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u342	Mr Van Gerven's words were different. He said that we need to re-educate the CPB alone so that the CPB can then pass on the care fund. What type of re-education does the SP have in mind? What else is the CPB gonna do? And if that re-education doesn't happen, then maybe the rest of the Chamber doesn't want the SP to continue to charge the plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u343	Now Mr Harbers is asking me for the impossible. I can't tell you what the CPB can and can't pass on. That's up to the CPB. We want a system change. Mr Harbers wants about the policy that is now in place, so it does not have to change much about the system. However, we want a change in the system. If the CPB then says that it is becoming too complicated for that organisation itself, Mr Harbers should not charge us with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u344	There is a call here in the Chamber for the CPB to be re-educated. But that's weird, isn't it? We have one referee here. We know the model. Mr Merkies said yesterday that he also knows this model and that the SP is simply going to comply with it. This has nothing to do with what the CPB can or can't do. It was said that we all had to re-educate that CPB first and I think that's a bit weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u345	Re-educating the CPB, yes, but that has to do with the fact that we are in favour of very different models. Indeed, the models that the CPB advocates are more suited to the experience of Mr Harbers, for example when it comes to an offer-driven model in the long term, in which everyone who offers themselves gets work. I always think that's something very unusual. Then you indeed score with a program where you completely abolish social security very well at the CPB. That long-term model, we are indeed very opposed to it. And that the CPB cannot pass on certain things, Mr Harbers should not charge me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u346	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for their response to the input and the questions asked. This certainly applies to the part of the Minister's speech in which he referred to the accuracy of the interventions that have been carried out in recent years, which have brought us as the Netherlands where we are now and which gives us the basis again to show many more people in the years to come that things are actually going better. I have only one concern in this second term. I mentioned a number of them yesterday, but we are not yet clear on another point. I did not mention that yesterday in the first term. I mentioned the international unrest and the Brexit yesterday, but the long-term low interest rate environment is also becoming increasingly worrying, not only for the Netherlands but for the whole Western world and the rest of the world. That is entirely true because the central bankers, who were together a month or so ago in Jackson Hole, did not really come to an answer to the question of how we should all deal with it. That is why I have co-signed the motion that Mrs Schouten will be tabling on this subject. I have only been able to read the letter that has just been given to us very briefly. I note that there were quite a number of considerations in the sense of: how does this work out? But I haven't been able to read it in extension. No doubt there will be people who do. But with all the others here in the Chamber and the Secretary of State himself, we also consider that this arrangement does not deserve the beauty prize. In any case, we are pleased that the Secretary of State has intervened in this regard. Finally, I would like to comment on a very different point. Mr Nijboer asked the Minister about the dividends of banks. I very much agreed with the Minister's answer, also for a very different reason. We have all chosen a banking union. We have opted for a system of rules in which shareholders are the first to stand up when banks are in trouble. They have to replenish the power. They're gonna be the ones getting bailed out. It is precisely from that principle that we say: if you, as a shareholder in a bank, take all these risks, are at the bar for that, but that all the shareholders have settled well with that bank and you can barely get dividends in advance, that would be weird. That is precisely the responsibility that we have placed with the shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u347	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers, but they do not reassure me at all. As far as the ECB is concerned, I would like to await the response to the own-initiative paper. During the debate on the Maastricht Treaty, there was no mention of monetary financing. Pension funds have not been discussed except the General Civil Pension Fund, which can no longer be required to purchase government bonds. But in the end, it was the central banks that were going to buy government bonds. I would like to look forward to the improved explanation of the additional buffer of EUR 3.5 billion to be transferred to DNB. I'd like to know from the Minister when it's coming. On electric cars I come back to the treatment of the Tax Plan. The biggest topic today was the IRS. It has spent 700 million on a scheme, of which 150 to 200 million on a tax post-tax. Every CEO who gets a tax post-tax from 150 to 200 million for whatever, is at least being rebuked. I haven't been able to study this memo enough to make a final judgment on this, so I have some questions. This debate will continue next Thursday. The second-term questions are the following. One. What article of the ARAR obliges people who are right in front of their AOW to give the same thing as people who are still a few years away from it? Two. Call me examples of other empire schemes where someone does not get a lower payoff just before his AOW date. This is to avoid anyone getting a 24-month salary two months before their AOW date. Three. The annex to the letter we have just received allows EUR 130 million in Switch and, which is not the issue at present, for the recruitment of staff. However, 700 million has been spent. What do you mean there's a 570 million hole? There was 646 million available. Is there a decision at a later date on the release of that additional 500 million? I think that is an extremely relevant question. Apparently, the Investment Committee discussed this on 13 November, when there was no final agreement with the unions. But the agreement did not enter into force until January 1st. Has there been any further consultations between 13 November and 1 January? And can the Secretary of State send a timeline for next Wednesday showing how these funds have been released and what decisions have been taken? Can the Secretary of State also give the dashboard, with the colours that it had on 13 November and just before 1 January? This letter talks about a dashboard in which the risks are identified. If the Secretary of State does not want to use the term "waste of taxpayers' money," then the CDA Group will. An arrangement of this magnitude is a waste. The CDA Group would like to take the bottom line next week about what has happened here in a decision-making sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u348	Mr. Chairman. I made a broad statement yesterday about a strong and social society. I thank the Cabinet for the answers to my questions. I would like to highlight a number of points in connection with the first-term response. First of all, much has been said about the low-interest environment. In particular, I had questions about the effects on public finances, the risks now facing the Netherlands Bank and the potential risks to public finances. But, of course, there are broader effects in the economy. Mrs Schouten will be tabling a motion to analyse this, also because long-term low interest rates have an effect on many fronts in society. I co-signed that motion. I think it is good to carry out a thorough analysis of this. My second point concerns the financial sector. I have made two proposals to which the Minister has responded. With regard to dividend policy, he has undertaken to speak with the Netherlands Bank to see if it has sufficient powers, and to report to the Court. I'll wait and see. In contrast to my other request to extend the duty of care, the Minister was not too sympathetic. That's what I heard. At the same time, he wants to involve it in the results of the ongoing research of the AFM, which will return to us in November. Then we will discuss this further, because we do not yet agree. The third point concerns Deutsche Bank; Mr Koolmees and others have also spoken about it. It's a big "too big to fail" bank, with big consequences if things go wrong there. The Minister indicated that this does not seem to be happening yet. Nevertheless, the bank remains too big to fail. Mr Koolmees has tabled a motion to deal with this problem. I co-signed that motion. My fourth point concerns taxation and the Tax Administration. I await the answers of the Secretary of State in second term. We will also have a follow-up debate on this next week. I gave the opinion of the PvdA Group yesterday and just now. Our group believes that tax money has been handled carelessly; so much money towards such a generous arrangement. We are very much in favour of good arrangements for workers, but they must be reasonable, and that is not this scheme. Finally. I made a point of the cabinet's proposals to reduce the corporate tax rate, which would go along with the race to the bottom to make the Netherlands competitive and lead the tax establishment climate. I think that is perverse, because the revenue from tax avoidance should benefit everyone. The PvdA believes that a fair contribution should also be sought from large companies. The Secretary of State did not respond to this in the first period. I'm glad. I hope that I will never hear the Secretary of State again about the proposal to reduce the VPB rates and that he wants to implement them in this way, even in the second term. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, this proposal can be thrown into the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u349	Mr. Tony van Dijck. A question, no lengthy introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u350	No, Mr. Chairman. I did not get a chance to say this yesterday, but I heard Mr Samsom say very clearly about the General Political Reviews that he prefers to get rid of his own risk and that he thinks it is far too high. He said that to Pauw, I think. He said he hadn't found proper cover yet and is looking for it. I ask the PvdA: what's wrong with using the bonus scheme for the expats as cover for reducing your own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u351	There has been a lot of discussion about the healthcare system, also in the General Reviews. I believe that various parties, and my party is certainly one of them, will make proposals to review the healthcare system. We want less market forces in healthcare. We also want to do something about our own risk. Mr Van Dijck has seen this. That seems to me a good theme for the next election, but we are not going to introduce it every year. I've seen the cover of the PVV. At least it's not double. The SP has used its cover twice; that was very special. But we're not gonna do this every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u352	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u353	"We're not gonna do this every year"? Now Mr Nijboer can do something for his supporters, now he can deal with the needy sick fellow man with a slightly lower personal risk. It doesn't cost anything. Mr. Nijboer embraces the cover. He's also critical of the expat scheme. The General Court is critical of the expat scheme. Many parties say: should there really be 900 million to expats who earn one, two, three tons and then get 30% off their taxes? Now he has the chance to win back a few seats and now he's letting it go again!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u354	We are very critical of the expat regime. Partly thanks to a motion from the PvdA, the cabinet is now investigating it not very heartily how it can be limited. That's different than having money on the shelf in three months. It still takes some time to abolish a whole scheme at once. A bit crude policy is entrusted to the PVV, but in practice that is not so easy done. The PvdA is therefore very critical about this, but it was not just picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u355	This debate has been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u356	We are critical of this regulation, but, with Mr Van Dijck's premonition of its own risk, it is not, of course, a very serious cover. But at least it's a better cover than the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u357	A brief question, Mr Grashoff. Maybe a question that hasn't been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u358	I hear Mr Nijboer once again stress that there should be no increase in the Vpb tariff. Now there's in the Tax Plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u359	No reduction!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u360	No reduction, indeed. It's late! He doesn't want a reduction in the VPB rate. Now there is an extension of the first disc in the 2018 Tax Plan. That is actually also a form of tariff reduction. Are Mr Nijboer and I going to see that coming out of the debate on the Tax Plan together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u361	No. My key point is that I want SMEs to be encouraged. That is why we also have the low income advantage, for example. This stimulates companies that employ people. I'm fine with it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u362	You should not take an advance on the debate on the Tax Plan. We're almost done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u363	I'd be happy to answer, Mr. Chairman. I am very much in favour of encouraging a normal SME with a profit of €200,000, €300,000 with the revenue from tax avoidance measures. I'm not against that. I am against multinational companies not contributing and large companies do not contribute that tax evasion, but Mr Grashoff can always wake up the PvdA, and me in particular, to encourage SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u364	The debate on the Tax Plan is yet to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u365	I'll be brief. Here, too, we are talking about substantial amounts of profit. I appreciate Mr Nijboer's clarity, but I think we disagree on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u366	Mr Nijboer attacks me a bit in a faint way. In fact, I said that we are coming to our election programme with our cover. Mr Nijboer has said a lot about our cover. Now I want to talk about the coverage of the PvdA. I know he's gonna talk about SP coverage now, but still. The PvdA has been diving all the time. I have heard Mr Samsom say: I would like to abolish it. So apparently the PvdA is going to abolish it. Can the PvdA tell us where it is getting the money for abolishing its own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u367	We are having the debate on next year's budget. The SP has chosen not to make a counter-budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u368	Answer your plan, Mr Nijboer! Your cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u369	We are talking about next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u370	Your cover, Mr. Nijboer!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u371	We in the coalition have made the current budget: 1.1 billion for purchasing power repair, 100 million for combating child poverty, 50 million for chronically ill, 200 million for education. That's my signature. That's the PvdA's cover. It's been all over the place for days. And the SP...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u372	No, wait. I am talking about covering one's own risk, which you say you are going to abolish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u373	We are not going to abolish it by 1 January. I just said that in reply to Mr Van Dijck! This is a system discussion about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u374	Nor have we said that we are going to abolish it on 1 January. You keep diving. You just don't cover. You will have Mr Samsom say that he is going to abolish it. I'd abolish it, but you don't dive and cover yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u375	This seems very tough, but I don't think it's much, so I say in all honesty. Its own risk is a major theme in the upcoming elections. The PvdA will make proposals for this. We did not, unlike the SP, create the illusion that this would be reduced. And the SP comes with a cover that reduces both development cooperation and its own risk. She doesn't come up with a counter-budget. Nor does it come up with sound amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u376	This is entrapment, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u377	Last year it was doing extra homework during the General Reviews. This year it's basically doing criminal work for the SP. It doesn't look like anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u378	A brief comment, a short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u379	I don't accept this. This is entrapment. Mr Nijboer does not answer the question about his own cover, and now he is rubbing something on me that I have not said. It is a structural change. The cover will be in our election program. Then we'll actually come up with it. But why don't you come over here and tell me where your cover is coming from?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u380	We've put in a whole budget. We support it, from A to Z. That's all covered. The SP has made zero sound proposals. She only came up with allegations. It wasn't much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u381	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this should have been a bit of a "sorry debate." Mr Wiebes said equestrianly sorry, even though he called it gratuitous, whatever that may be. Mrs Merkel apologized for the "wir purchase tie." The IMF apologized for the pessimism surrounding the Brexit and for the wrong decisions in the Greek crisis. Mr Rutte apologized for his broken election promises. Only Mr Dijsselbloem is still clearly in denial, because 16 billion in tax increase in the face of the crisis is and remains a stupid policy, and he knows it himself. 'Cause what did we see? Unemployment rose by 200,000. 35,000 companies went bankrupt. 1.5 million people were underwater, there was a loss of purchasing power and demand and people kept their hands on the clasp. We all saw it and felt it, the CPB even analyzed it and the minister denies it. He'd do it again. Then there's the euro. The minister got over it pretty easily. He had a nice little debate with Stiglitz. But Stiglitz isn't just anyone, Minister. That's a top economist. He called the euro a historic mistake, a dead end. If that comes out of the mouth of someone who really knows it, this minister should charge himself with it. Stiglitz says that countries have not grown towards each other, but that the gap has got worse. And we can see that. Moving on is not an option. Either you redistribute the debts, or you dismantle the euro. I hope that there will not be a minister here who intends to redistribute the debts of southern Europe, hence the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many economists note the failure of the euro;]] [[Whereas muddling is very damaging to our economy and prosperity;]] [[calls on the government to prepare to leave the euro area as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u382	The ECB's policy is also disastrous for the Netherlands. This minister stands by and looks at how our pensions evaporate and strike down in Italy: the redistribution of wealth. Pensioners provide purchasing power and pensions are reduced as a result of ECB policies. I can see how the Minister sits here so quietly, because he's celebrating. It sees the interest rate on the government debt of 7.9 billion in 2015 falling to 6.4 billion in 2017 and to 5.1 billion in 2021. And he sees the billions less in tax losses due to the mortgage interest deduction. This minister spins yarn on all the billions he earns because of the low interest rates. That's why I'm filing the next motion. Three times is charm, I'd say. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ECB has reduced interest rates to zero;]] [[noting that due to low interest rates pensions cannot be indexed and may need to be reduced;]] [[Considering that the low interest rate is favourable to the Treasury, as the interest charges on the government debt in 2017 are 1.5 billion lower than last year;]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance thus benefits from the low interest rate, while pensioners are severely affected;]] [[Calls on the Government to use the interest rate counter to temporarily increase the AOW to compensate for the non-indexation and possibly shortening of pension benefits in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u383	The PVV also finds it incomprehensible that health insurers have a buffer of 10 billion, of which 4 billion are excess money from the contributors. That's premium money: 10 billion! We all talk about it every day that caring for people is priceless. We're talking about the risk we have to take down, but 10 billion in dead money, in bounty money, is on the shelf. The own risk is a fine on being sick, but sick avoid care due to the high own risk. The whole Chamber wants to lower its own risk, with the exception of the VVD, because those people never get sick. The PVV has found cover. That has already been said by interrupting, so what I am saying now is a little superfluous. The PvdA will vote against and that's too bad. I don't want to leave the Secretary of State completely unnamed. He's handing out a departure plan of 720 million for 7,800 employees. That's $92,000 per person. I called this a golden handshake. More than half of those employees are 60-plus. The Netherlands has to buffle until its 67th, but with the Tax Administration you can go with the VUT with 60-plus. While the whole of the Netherlands has lost the protection against dismissal, it is being polished up at the Tax Office. Can the Secretary of State go into the fine charge again from 150 million to 200 million? Or was that a slip of the tongue? The Secretary of State is hiding behind the law. In my view, the scheme has just been open to everyone, including 60-plussers, and the Secretary of State has been able to close this leak since 1 July. I do not think this has anything to do with the law, but with the regulation itself. The Secretary of State is clearly not in control and uses euphemisms such as "painful, stone on the stomach, process, gone wrong, checks-and-balances." Hence the next motion... Well, no, Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u384	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the clear answer. The Minister has looked at the past years in detail. What happened to the cuts? Is there too much or too much savings, yes or no? I can be brief about that. I agree with the Minister's analysis. I too believe that it was necessary to intervene and to put public finances in order. Fortunately, we are much better off in terms of public finances, economic growth and unemployment. I also agree with the Minister's observation that we must learn from this and that we should not repeat the mistakes of the past. We must therefore continue to keep our finances in order and make our economy future-proof. I mentioned three topics in my analysis yesterday. Firstly, I was talking about pensions. The pension system really needs to be reformed. Secondly, I mentioned the labour market. Something must be done about the distinction between fixed and flex. Thirdly, I talked about making the tax system simpler and more efficient; there must be less pumping around. I therefore agree with what the Minister of Finance has said on this point. We must not let these challenges go. I have a number of comments on taxes. Of course, most of the issues will be dealt with in the Tax Plan, but I would like to say a few words about training deductions. A scheme can, of course, be used more effectively, better. To be honest, however, I find it incomprehensible and wrong that, at a time when we are talking so much about retraining, retraining and the need for lifelong learning, we should be cutting back on training money. My colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, will go into this in detail when dealing with the Tax Plan. Another point I made yesterday is that D66 thinks that working should pay off. Last year's Tax Plan motto was: 5 billion to promote employment. Part of that package is now being reversed. We will come up with amendments to the Tax Plan in order to remove some of the reduction in the labour cut or the reduction in the labour cut by greening the tax system. Taxing pollution has helped the environment and encouraged work, because work has to pay and so it has to pay to work more. We can now see that a lot has gone wrong in terms of overhead at the Tax Office. Mr Nijboer said: careless handling of taxpayers' money. There's still a lot of questions. There will be a debate on this next week. I agree with Mr Omtzigt's questions, because I too am interested in what safeguards were in the process, what decisions were taken and how the Secretary of State was involved in ensuring this. One point I made yesterday concerns the letter the Secretary of State sent yesterday morning. For the first time, there were risks to continuity. Yesterday, I asked if those were serious risks. How does the Secretary of State view this? How's he handling that? We don't want this process to lead to longer queues at Increases or disruptions in the primary process, do we? I would like a response from the Secretary of State on that point. Then I come to the issue of the financial markets. I agree with Mr Nijboer and Mr Harbers on the low-interest environment. We had a long period of low interest rates with great consequences and spill-over effects, including for the financial sector. Mrs Schouten is about to table a motion. I am very interested in the reaction to that motion, but Mrs Schouten will be able to read it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u385	Oh, that's fancy. She can read the motion herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u386	Yeah, that might sound a little condescending. I didn't mean to. I know that Mrs Schouten is about to table a good motion, which I wholeheartedly support. I also see the importance of getting this sorted out properly. But yes, if I say more, I'll read her motion and that's not the point. I apologize for these many words. My final point concerns Deutsche Bank. In recent weeks we have seen a lot of unrest in the banking landscape. There's another discussion about too big to fail. Deutsche Bank, with a balance sheet total of EUR 1,800 billion, leaves the whole financial system vibrating at the moment of unrest, whether it is justified or not. Now, a year and a half ago, we had a debate about too big to fail, about megabanks, where the question arose as to whether the Netherlands could not take the lead in countering that. I'm filing a motion just to try again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current situation at Deutsche Bank shows that banks can still be too big to fail;]] [[whereas a European approach is not yet sufficiently effective;]] [[Whereas the situation in Deutsche Bank also makes other countries aware that banks should not be or should not become too big to fail;]] [[calls on the Government to seek appropriate solutions at European level to prevent banks from becoming or becoming too big to fail,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koolmees and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u387	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u388	I now give the floor to Mrs Schouten on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u389	Madam President. I don't have much time. I am not just here to read out motions, but I have to say about the motion that has already been announced that colleagues have been involved. I want to give those credits to my co-signators. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas interest rates are at a low level worldwide and probably long-term;]] [[calls on the Government to have a comprehensive analysis carried out by the CPB and DNB of the effects of long-term low interest rates on government, economy, households, financial sector including insurers, pension funds, banks, credit and shock resilience of these sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the nominal care premium is rising more rapidly in 2017 than was assumed in the State budget;]] [[whereas the Cabinet indicated that all income groups would improve purchasing power in 2017;]] [[calls on the Government to honour this promise and to clarify it for the House's handling of the VWS budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten, Mr Harbers and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-39]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u390	Finally, the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are more social initiatives in the areas of care, energy or housing, for example, which unite in a cooperative;]] [[Whereas access to finance is not always easy for cooperatives with a social purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of improving access to finance for cooperatives with a social objective and to come forward with concrete proposals to make this possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u391	Following this last motion, the Minister indicated that I could come and have a cup of coffee to talk to him about obstacles. I'd like to have that cup of coffee with him, but I'd also like to look with him where there are possibilities for improvement. Hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u392	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his reply, including on the issue of inequality. I am pleased that he acknowledges that the cumulative purchasing power figures we have presented are correct. That's very pleasant, because Prime Minister Rutte tried to get rid of it. For the rest, there is a difference in political choices for the consequences. There may be that difference. GroenLinks chooses differently from this cabinet. As far as we're concerned, non-working people are also involved. As far as the climate is concerned, we can't get out with the cabinet. That is possible, but I also have to say that it is a little bit of Dijsselbloem that comes around the corner when the Minister says: it is never enough; it will never be enough for GroenLinks. We have consistently talked for four years about an objective that should be there. It was finally confirmed through the Urgenda case. If that policy were to be implemented, we would be completely satisfied. So it's not like it couldn't be. It's a matter of not wanting to. I would like to comment on the budget for development cooperation. 0.56% has been a sad low point since 1973. We should do something about that. There is one bright spot, namely the excellent Dijkgraaf amendment on this subject. I will wholeheartedly support that; I hope I can also sign it. That process has been initiated, so that's coming up. I shall table a motion on the opinions of the Court of Auditors. I may be able to rescind it, but I'll find out in second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the report "Cost and revenue from measures to improve the balance 2011-2016" of the General Court shows that the impact of austerity is not clear;]] [[Whereas the recommendations contained in this report are designed to improve the understanding of the effects of measures taken, both from an evaluation point of view and from the point of view of effective action in the future;]] [[points out that the three recommendations of the General Court should be followed up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u393	Finally, I am tabling a motion on tax avoidance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still many thousands of mailboxes in the Netherlands;]] [[whereas these letterboxes, for example, cause more damage to the economy of both the Netherlands and abroad than they do;]] [[whereas steps are being taken to combat tax avoidance, but this may have only limited impact on the large amounts of money passed on via empty mailboxes, e.g.;]] [[Calls on the Government to present options to strengthen "substance requirements' for companies prior to the treatment of the 2017 Tax Plan, thereby preventing empty lock-through companies, without damaging companies with real economic activities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u394	We're going to see the Minister now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u395	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its second-term response. I would like to comment on some of the questions that have been raised and then move on quickly to the motions and amendments. I still have questions about care avoidance from the first term. The question was whether the NIVEL study also looked at care avoidance per income level. We have not been able to find any underlying figures, but NIVEL notes that young people and lower income groups avoid more concern. The 3% figure is not further broken down in the survey, but we have therefore found a qualitative sense of it. By the way, an AO on the Health Insurance Act took place this afternoon with Minister Schippers. That is where this subject has been dealt with in detail. I therefore refer to the VWS debate, in which this subject may come back. Then Mr Omtzigt's question about his own contribution to the Wmo. Is that also about general amenities? No, it's just about customization. The follow-up question was that of costs. We do not have any information available on the amount that municipalities currently receive of their own contributions from general provisions. It is really up to the municipalities; they have that policy space. We have to assume that municipalities have an appropriate policy. The diversity of general amenities is large and varies from one municipality to another, from bingo to domestic care, as mentioned here. There is therefore no further national regulation for the own contribution to general provisions. Moreover, municipalities themselves have an interest in making a general provision financially low-threshold, thus reducing the pressure on often more expensive tailor-made services. We therefore devote our 50 million to the more expensive tailor-made facilities, at least our own contribution to this. Mr Merkies asked for clarification of the measures involved in my discussion with the General Court. What I want to do with the General Court and the Central Planning Office is to explore to what extent an evaluation is possible and useful. Is it gonna work? I am going to talk to the Court of Auditors and the CPB about what measures it could take. It is a very large container with 486 measures. I would like to see whether we could still examine and evaluate a few, of course large and interesting ones, on their effects. Some of them are still walking. Mr Vendrik mentioned in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur the austerity of the mortgage interest deduction. As is well known, this is very gradual. The proceeds are also very gradual. This might be an example of a measure which we could still evaluate. How does it work out, what does it get, etc.? I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u396	A brief question, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u397	Yes, very briefly. Can the Minister give an indication of the timetable? When can it start and when are there possible outcomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u398	I have yet to enter into the discussion with the General Court, but within one or two months you will receive a letter from me on what is possible and useful on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u399	That's pretty long. It naturally matters whether the results come before or after March. It would be nicer if we could look back at this period. If we do not receive a letter in two months' time which states when an investigation can be started, then I wonder when the outcome will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u400	We're gonna see. I promise Mr Merkies that we will do it as soon as possible. I have no political interest in slowing it down. As he knows, I'm not ashamed of anything. Mr Omtzigt asked for a response to his own-initiative paper on the ECB. There's going to be one, of course. As usual, we will respond in writing. Mr Omtzigt also asked for a more detailed explanation of the additional provision to be made by DNB in connection with monetary policy. I had already promised it to Mr Nijboer. That explanation will be given in the near future. On the basis of their own risk models, the Nederlandsche Bank determines the size of the provision. He has carried out new calculations of which we will inform the Chamber as soon as possible. Mr Grashoff summarized the debate on income effects by saying: 'Good thing the Minister, GroenLinks, is now right'. That doesn't do my input right. Of course, he knows that himself, but sometimes the political debate is reduced to conclusions of this kind. Let me make one thing right. Mr Grashoff says: at GroenLinks, non-working people also count. In doing so, he suggests that other groups in the Chamber or in the Cabinet would not. Of course, that's not right, and he knows it. The debate will continue on the basis of a document which will be given to the Chamber by the Minister for Social Affairs. This will break down and explain the income effects of policies and other income effects. I'll get on with the motions soon. The first is Mr Merkies' motion on item No. 35 in which the government is asked to provide faster up-to-date figures on capital inequality. I referred to the figures for 2014. They are available and publicly available and can already be found on the CBS site since 15 December 2015. To the best of our knowledge, it can't go any faster. The CBS also has no reason to slow down. It is about realization figures and then the CBS always has to deal with some delay because those figures have to be collected and verified first. I don't think we can do more than this, but it's really up to the CBS. If this motion is adopted, there will be expectations that the cabinet cannot deliver, and that is why I must, unfortunately, discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u401	Mr Merkies, a brief comment on the motion. Don't argue!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u402	In GDP, you also have to do with realization figures. In fact, they work with the phenomenon of "nowcasting." We have also discussed this extensively in committee on the concept of prosperity. With that model it is indeed possible, because in fact you predict the present with data from the past. In that way, you can certainly fill in what it can be at the moment. I know that this institution can do that, because they are already doing so with other important data in the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u403	We do not have to disagree on this. I must say to Mr Merkies that I will go to the CBS with the concept of 'nowcasting' in my pocket to see what they can do about it. I will let the Chamber know that in writing, and it is possible that this will lead to the motion being held or withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u404	No arrest, no withdrawal, no vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u405	With that promise, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u406	At the request of Mr Merkies, I propose his motion (34550, No. 35). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u407	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 36 by Mr Van Dijck, the government is invited to prepare to leave the euro area as soon as possible. We will not do that, also because we do not share the analysis contained in the motion. In that the euro is, as it were, blamed for all our problems. I wish life was that simple. I would agree with the PVV, but unfortunately the analysis is inadequate. The appeal in the motion is therefore also inadequate. I'm dissuading the motion. The third motion, in part No. 37 is by Mr Van Dijck and, not to mention, Mr Wilders. In this motion, the government is asked to use the interest rate counter to temporarily increase the AOW. It will be disappointing for many pensioners that the PVV only has something to offer temporarily. The problem is that we have a lot of disappointments and disappointments throughout the budget. Mr Van Dijck is now taking a windfall, namely a windfall in the interest costs of the state debt. In his view, we can use it for this purpose, but that money has already been used in the budget, also to compensate for failures in other areas, such as gas benefits. It is therefore, in fact, not coverage, because these resources are not freely available. That's why I'm looking forward to another cover. I would add that, within its overall budget alone, the cabinet has released 800 million for the elderly in order to ensure that they see a plus in their income development next year. And those 800 million are covered. So I'm deceiving the motion. In their motion in part No. 38 Mr Koolmees and Mr Nijboer noted, on the basis of the situation at Deutsche Bank, that banks could still be too big to fail. I disagree. It says that if we look at this example, Deutsche Bank could not or should not get into trouble. When I look at Deutsche Bank and at Deutsche Bank's balance sheet and assessment by Deutsche Bank's supervisors, my contention is that even in the extreme, which is not at all at issue at the moment, that Deutsche Bank could come in resolution, there is simply bail-in material present. I certainly do not want to send the message, which is implicit in this motion, that our resolution framework with the principle of bail-in would not be applicable to this type of bank. It is also applicable to this bank. Implicitly, that message is in the motion. Nevertheless, when I read the appeal to the government to find adequate solutions to prevent banks from being or becoming too big to fail, I would say, in the good mood I am in, that this in itself is policy support. I think the most important piece of work has already been delivered here. It is very important that the political and supervisory authorities constantly stress that the resolution framework and the bail-in principle will be applied. Just constantly radiating together that it is not going to work, that it can't work here or that it's dangerous, means that the markets are going to anticipate that it won't. It'll happen. Perhaps Mr Koolmees means something else; I have my last sentence on this. There is also a regulation on bank restructuring in Brussels. That regulation should have been completed a long time ago. She's stuck in the European Parliament. I personally voted in favour of trying to reach compromises between political groups in the European Parliament in order to make it work. That is about the large banks of Europe, about French and German banks, to be precise. I would like to make that proposal very clear. I will continue to do so without any obligation to achieve results. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it deals with that, it is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u408	A brief response, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u409	Yes, the Minister may. I will also amend the first two sentences a little, because the intention the Minister is reading is not the intention of the proposers. The motion is therefore still being changed a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u410	Then we are in complete agreement on this point. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 39 by Mrs Schouten, Mr Harbers and Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u411	Now I'm trying to understand the reaction to the previous motion. Is it only the regulation now before the European Parliament? The operative part refers to'seeking solutions', but I think all the solutions have already been sought. These are the Banking Union, the BRRD and the Restructuring Directive. Is that what it is? Otherwise, we will continue to look for something we have long agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u412	To be quite precise, there is one other subject on which previous motions by Mr Koolmees and Mr Nijboer have gone. This is the Antonveneta directive, as it is popularly called. For example, when assessing whether a declaration of no objection to a merger or acquisition in the financial sector is made, is the criterion of financial stability still possible for a bank to settle or will it become too large, too complex, too risky? This Directive shall be formally incorporated into this Directive. Moreover, my position remains that the supervisor can weigh this aspect in any case when he gives a statement of no objection. This is one of our smaller wishes for something that could be better regulated in the future. But to reassure Mr Harbers, I do not have an agenda for doing any more far-reaching action than this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u413	You would have stayed with the motion in part No. 39.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u414	I was going to say that the motion in part No. 39 support for policy is, but that is not entirely true, because we are not doing it yet. However, the CPB itself indicated, as I said in my first term, that it is going to look at QE. This is actually a better approach. This approach looks at the low interest rate climate. QE is just a part of that. This monetary policy takes place in a lower interest rate environment. That is why this approach is not only broader, but also better than what I think the CPB is going to do. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. If the motion is adopted, I will look into whether the institutions mentioned in it could take this up. In the Schouten/Dijkgraaf motion in part No. 40 says: "Whereas the cabinet indicated that all income groups would improve purchasing power in 2017.' The word "would" is of course important. Purchasing power is calculated on the one hand on the basis of policy and on the other hand on the basis of estimates and expectations. The policy has not changed. The policy stands, including the purchasing power package. But if the assumptions and expectations of things outside the direct influence of the cabinet change, then there is no guarantee from the Dutch government. That is why the wording in this motion is not correct. There is no such promise. I therefore advise against the motion. I come to the Schouten/Nijboer motion in part No. 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u415	Mrs Schouten has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u416	On the basis of the Minister's reasoning, would it not be logical at all to include the increase in the care premium in the purchasing power picture? That must always be estimated. Any ruling by the government on the increase in purchasing power is then unrealistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u417	I'm sorry, but I really don't agree. The government believes it is important to calculate purchasing power, because on that basis we can consider whether we should do more or whether we should take other measures in the purchasing power package. But the government can only calculate that purchasing power on the basis of a number of assumptions. You have to make assumptions, otherwise you can't figure it out. There are many assumptions underneath and we will see that many of these underlying issues will change in the course of next year, because we are talking about purchasing power in 2017. The Chamber can appeal to us on policy. We are shaping this policy in August on the basis of a number of assumptions. Then the world moves on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u418	But at the time when the policy is adopted, there is a premium when there was a discussion here in this Chamber about whether or not it was known that it would be higher. Apart from that, on the basis of these assumptions, the cabinet simply stated that no one would go backwards, that no one would shoot below zero. Then the Minister should also admit that the cabinet could never have made this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u419	That's really wrong. Mrs Schouten is well aware of how the decision-making process is completed every August. You do that on the basis of the best possible estimate of purchasing power. There are, of course, assumptions underneath that; that is inevitable. These assumptions may, for example, come from the CPB, but in this case they come from VWS, because we assume that that department has the best view on the development of healthcare expenditure. Our responsibility is to calculate purchasing power images on the basis of those estimates or assumptions. Those were really crooked for the summer. It took a large purchasing power package to fix that. It was then re-established what the purchasing power picture would look like with that package. That's a snapshot. That's when everyone was in the plus. We do not know what the premiums will look like. Mrs Schouten once again suggests that the cabinet did know this. She really needs to be more supportive of that, otherwise it will be a really nasty remark. It then suggests that we deliberately misinformed the Chamber, and that is a serious reproach. If that's what she's suggesting, she's got to come up with a little more support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u420	In fact, I have said that the Minister can read that back in the Acts that was discussed here in the Chamber whether or not the Cabinet knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u421	Yeah, yeah, that's right, but there's a suggestion underneath that. I don't think we should leave it in the air. To conclude in a good atmosphere: Mrs Schouten's motion and Mr Nijboer's motion on item No. 41, on the financing of cooperatives, I see as support for policy. We'll have that cup of coffee to get the problem sharper. Then we know where to look for the problem and we can better come up with possible solutions. I'd like to leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. Mr Grashoff's motion for a resolution 42 concerns the Court of Auditors' report. Mr Grashoff goes one step further than my commitment. He simply stated that the Court's three recommendations should be followed up. As I have said, we are going to consult with the Court of Auditors to see how we can do this better, but if the Court of Auditors wants all 486 measures to be evaluated, I do not think that is realistic. You can't do that sometimes. It doesn't make sense. The Court of Auditors is also of efficiency. This should also apply to his own recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u422	That is not in the Court's recommendations either. It's just about the big measures. The Court of Auditors makes three recommendations. Your commitment covers the second recommendation, but the first and the third much less. That is why I have tabled a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u423	I'm dissuading the motion. I am going to discuss with the Court of Auditors how we can take this constructively. I'll get back to you on that. I have to say a few words about the amendments. I don't keep the numbers on this. I have an amendment from the PVV and one from the SGP and other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u424	Those are the Tony van Dijck c.s. amendment. (34550-XVI, No. 7) and the Dijkgraaf c.s. amendment (34550-XVII, No. 6).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u425	Then I have an amendment from the CDA and the SGP for an additional 100 million for the defense. There's no number on it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u426	That is the Knops/Dijkgraaf amendment (34550-X, No. 7).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u427	I shall begin with the Dijkgraaf and others amendment. to increase the BuHa-OS budget. The BuHa-OS budget has been pushed up twice in this cabinet period because of the large burden on first-year asylum seekers. Moreover, we expect that this year, because of the declining numbers, BuHa-OS will see release again at this point. In our view, it is not necessary at the moment to further increase the budget of BuHa-OS. Coverage is found in limiting the 30% scheme. The Secretary of State may be able to comment on that. I said earlier that we would look at this scheme and then we would like to see whether it needs to be adapted. That debate will certainly come back to the Tax Plan. The Tony van Dijck amendment c.s. to reduce own risk has the same coverage, so I can be brief about that. It is not our intention to reduce one's own risk. I have indicated how we are combating care avoidance and how we are compensating lower incomes through the care allowance for one's own risk. By the way, there is a major technical problem. The reduction of the own risk in 2017 would require a legislative change. With regard to the determination of contributions by health insurance companies, this should be done in such a short time that this is practically impossible to implement. However, as far as I am concerned, we are not even getting there, because we should not do it at the moment and the government is rejecting the coverage. The Knops/Dijkgraaf amendment takes 100 million for Defence out of an increase in gambling tax. I'm just taking a break from the separation between income and expenditure. The budget cuts of 1 billion on Defense are from the cabinet in which the CDA participated. In the meantime, as I say from my mind, we have compensated 870 million of these. Defence expenditure increased by 870 million in three steps. In doing so, we have largely undone the very substantial austerity from Rutte I. This amendment goes a step further, but that is not necessary or meaningful at the moment. Next year we will look again at what is needed there. The Secretary of State may be able to comment on the coverage from the gambling tax. It would mean an increase of 20%, which would increase the chances of illegal gambling. But as you know, the Secretary of State is much better at that than I am. I do not recommend the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u428	Mr. Chairman. I'm just passing through the questions and then I'm gonna come across a motion. Mr Omtzigt asks which article in the ARAR obliges us to deal with the same thing for the elderly. That's Article 49t (8). He asked a question about the state schemes: are there other arrangements... I think I am already being interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u429	I suggest you finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u430	Mr Omtzigt asks: are there other examples of schemes in the Empire in which older people are treated in the same way? These would be schemes in which the ARAR is applied without a discount for the elderly when reaching the AOW age. This applies to most of the schemes applied in the Netherlands on the basis of the ARAR, such as, very specifically, at Rijkswaterstaat at the moment. Similar arrangements have also been made at SZW, BZK, EZ, OCW, V and J and VWS. Sometimes there are differences between those arrangements which are not material in this respect, but which are important to report. At the Tax Office there is a generic regulation. That means it wasn't restricted in range. I told you this wasn't supposed to happen. However, the age component that is playing here is exactly the same as in other schemes: they have all been elderly who have received similar amounts. A second difference that sometimes exists is that the scheme does not pay in cash, but on special leave. Someone can then choose to get paid for another time, while not working, even if that passes the AOW age, but in material terms that is exactly the same. This also applies to exactly the same amounts for older people. And also in those cases there is the same RVU levy. There's always that risk. In many cases, therefore, the RVU levy is not prevented. Then I'll get to the piece sent around. The piece itself shows that the watchdog is not only formalized through the Official Journal, but that it is a powerful watchdog. That watchdog makes sensible recommendations, puts the finger on several sore spots in a report at the same time and also gives critical instructions. The answer to Mr Omtzig's question is 'no'. Again, I am sorry that we have to go through it at this level of detail, but it does support my conclusion. This was a meeting on 13 November. A proposal was made to the JOBD on 23 November and a deal was concluded on 7 December. There has been no meeting, but the critical point 8 of the agreement table has not been followed up. With that there has been a powerful watchdog at the front door, but unfortunately the deal is closed at the back door. The checks-and-balances were of high quality, but the procedures were not followed. That's a wrong thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u431	So under 8 an agreement is made: after the IC, that committee, provided additional information about Switch and hiring new staff, a follow-up request of resources follows. That's a $500 million deal. The tax authorities should have asked the committee, but they didn't. Am I right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u432	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u433	So we set up a commission to go over 700 million. For 150 million a question is asked, but for the next 500 million no more advice is requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u434	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u435	And it's only been reported now. I reserve the right to get the timeline of what happened, including internally. I'm really pissed off. If this is the way you carry out your most important project, I don't know why we sometimes have debates here about a few million and hear about small things that we can't. If half a billion is to be spent, there is not even a note to be asked!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u436	The procedures have clearly not been followed here. Mr Van Dijck asks for the standard purchasing power for example households to be passed on. The CPB states that it is willing to update the publication, as requested by the Court. Mr Van Dijck asks for confirmation that there is a penalty charge. There isn't one. There's a surplus on the payroll tax. It has the nature of a wage charge: the final levy. This amounts to 150 million to 200 million. This is the result of an RVU tax which was linked to the scheme. By the way, unlike what he suggests, that money ends up in the state treasury. Mr Koolmees is asking about the guarantees. In the opinion of the Tax Administration, the overarching picture is that continuity is not at stake, but there is attention and customization for specific processes. I must advise against Mr Grashoff's motion. There are all kinds of ways, and they have been set in motion, to prevent treaty abuse. Among other things, with that very powerful MLI instrument, which I have said Mr Grashoff probably does not have to wait very long for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u437	I was just chewing on the Secretary of State's response to Mr Omtzigt's questions on point 8 of the note. The Secretary of State said that the procedures at point 8 were not followed. The 500 million that would be paid out later on in this section has not actually been the subject of any further advice. Have there been any internal checks? Has the Department of Financial and Economic Affairs been watching? Otherwise, I find myself very raw on the roof, which has been advice on the first part and that nothing has happened afterwards, while 500 million decisions have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u438	It is not the case that these organisations have not been involved, but they are not in the right way and not final. Of course, after the scheme started and it was shown that it did not go well, the procedures were followed, in the highest readiness and with the involvement of everyone. But that hasn't happened between this review and overbooking and the final conclusion of the deal. You shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u439	I'm trying to sum it up. I can't completely oversee it. I have to improvise a little now. From the end of November, which is the subject of this note, until 1 March, when signals got out of hand, no internal checks-and-balances took place and no decisions were taken by the Investment Committee. There were no guarantees, and there were no fences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u440	Too few legal commitments have been entered into on this note. Then there was the deal. That's when the deal was followed. The course has been monitored, meticulously. After a few weeks it appeared that the volumina ran differently than predicted. Then it was decided to return to the negotiating table with the highest level of preparedness after six weeks. That process has led to a new deal that was concluded before the summer. This led to the closure of the scheme on 1 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u441	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u442	There's a lot of questions coming up right now. I think it would be wise to ask for a factual account of what happened in the meantime. It is now rare for me to say that after that date there has been advice on the first part and the steps have been taken and then suddenly no longer, about the largest part of the budget, namely the 500 million. There will be a debate on this next week. I think it's good that we have and understand all these steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u443	You said it. You can't oversee it. Maybe that's true of several MPs. Next week there will be a general discussion on taxes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u444	No, even about this reorganisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u445	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u446	It's all about this reorganisation, so it's all about this. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Koolmees. I would like to have a precise account of the underlying documents, all the pieces of the Investment Committee, which simply state what happened, and at what point funds were released. I'd like those pieces in the Chamber by Tuesday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u447	This is actually also an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u448	I made the request in my second term. I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u449	Here's to it. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u450	I have an addition to Mr Omtzigt's question. It is now about the Investment Committee and the documents that lie there, but I am also very interested in what happened after that within the organisation, regardless of the Investment Committee, when it comes to the decision to spend the money, or at least to conclude the scheme, to conclude the contracts and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u451	Mr Van Dijck, is your question also related to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u452	Yes, I would also like to repeat the two arrangements before 1 July and after 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u453	That's fine. Mr Van Dijck already has them, but I will send them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u454	My other question was about the CPB. The CPB had indicated that, if we wanted to, we would be prepared to pass on those model households. Does the Minister inform the CPB that we would like to receive it for the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u455	I'll pass that on, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u456	This brings us to the end of this debate. The amendments tabled and the motions for resolutions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u457	Sorry, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u458	Is it quite correct what you said last, Mr. Chairman? I believe that amendments will always be voted on at the end, and only on the motions next week. Well, that's relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u459	Yeah, that's right. You are still very sharp, Mr Grashoff, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u460	Madam President, today we have therefore discussed the budget, which is Chapter IX. After everything that has happened, I do not rule out the fact that at some point there will be a third term of this budget. So perhaps you want to take that into account when voting. Motions can be put to the vote, but I thought I would tell you because we are talking about fairly large amounts of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-05-tweedekamer-7.u461	Yes. And for a third term you must always make a request during the arrangement of work.
