ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u1	I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. This morning we had a general discussion in preparation for the Justice Council which will be taking place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, if I am not mistaken, in Bratislava. One of the issues on the agenda is the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. We have already made the necessary critical remarks as a Chamber. I did that on behalf of the VVD. Given a number of new aspects that emerged, such as a letter from the rapporteur of the House of Representatives and a document from the Foreign Ministers of Germany and France, I think that the time has come to take a more firm position than perhaps has been the case before. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas broad agreement appears to have been reached on the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EOM) at the final stage, as there is only discussion on technical and less controversial issues;]] [[whereas, from the outset, the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office, and now the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office, has adopted a critical attitude towards the establishment of an EOM;]] [[noting that, in spite of the above, France and Germany have recently indicated their intention to extend the EPPO in the long term;]] [[noting that what is now before us does not satisfy the wishes of the majority of the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Government, through the appropriate European channels, to indicate that the Netherlands will not agree to the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Oosten, Segers, Van Nispen, Van der Staaij, Van Vliet, Thieme and Van Toorenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u3	The VVD actually says that it already wants to take a decision on something that we are not going to take until there is a final proposal. That meeting was made with the Chamber. Mr Van Oosten is doing the same thing as what, for example, the SP is doing at TTIP, which is saying that you are against it when the final result is not yet there. My question is very simple: why does the VVD do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u4	First of all... I have already indicated in my motion that there are a number of aspects. That is also what I said in my introduction. We have received a letter from our rapporteur from the House of Representatives, in which, as far as I am concerned, there are considerable concerns about the commitment, capacity and quality of the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office. Second. The document issued by the French and German Foreign Ministers worries me deeply. So now is the time to clarify things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. My group has also been critical of the European Public Prosecutor's Office from the outset. Contrary to colleagues from the VVD, my group has always said that the European Public Prosecutor's Office should not be there at all, in whatever form; point. My group has tabled a motion on this subject, which has been passed on seamlessly by colleagues from the VVD and the PvdA and which has only changed the operative part of 'the European Public Prosecutor's Office should not come to '...' in its present form. And here is the problem for which the VVD has placed itself. Because what has the Minister said several times? 'We are not going to take any steps in Europe unless we return to the Chamber with the final result'. The Minister is right to say that it was agreed with the majority of the Chamber that we should participate in the negotiations and assess the final outcome after this is done. Unlike the SP and my group, who have always said that it simply should not be there and therefore we should participate fully in those negotiations, the VVD has provided that space. The motion that has just been tabled is for the stage. If the VVD really does not want the European Public Prosecutor's Office, it will table a motion with the operative part "calls on the government to put an end to the negotiations on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and will proceed to the order of the day." My group will therefore vote against the motion tabled by my colleague in the VVD with his associates.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u6	Wait a minute, Mrs. Helder. I see that Mr Van Oosten has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mrs Helder must, on behalf of her group, do what she wants to do with motions tabled. I do have a specific question for her. Is the PVV for or against the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u8	Stupid questions aren't many, but this is one of them. My group has said from the outset that the European Public Prosecutor's Office should not be there, not now or never, in any form whatsoever. Mr Van Oosten may now ask whether the PVV believes that the European Public Prosecutor's Office should not be there, but we say that before the elections, that is what we say after the elections, and we will always say that. It should not be because we in the Chamber have nothing to say about it. It costs police capacity and capacity in the Public Prosecutor's Office, which we know is not there, and we cannot call the Minister to account because he will no longer be dealing with those officials at the European Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. We only have a short speaking time, but I think it is very important to say that what we are doing today is special, namely to step on the brakes when it seems that this is not necessary. I believe that I must send a very clear signal that the CDA Group does not agree with the direction it is taking. This is a rolling train and all that happens is that the emergency brake is removed. We don't want that. This is an important signal that the Minister must really take it to heart. We cannot agree to continue in this way with other countries that want to take further steps. It is important, and I would like to give this to the Minister, to ensure that cooperation is improved. It's in there every time. We do not need to repeat it; better cooperation is much more reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u10	I give the floor to Mr Recourt on behalf of the PvdA Group. Your name has one minute's speaking time. I don't know why. That's kind of short. I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'm gonna do my best. First, a brief response to the motion tabled by Mr Van Oosten on behalf of a number of colleagues. It's kind of a crazy motion. On the one hand, it states that the proposal before us is not satisfactory and, on the other hand, it calls on the government not to accept it. Is this a request to negotiate better? That's what's happening now. After all, we will not give a final judgment until the final plan is in place. This seems to me to be the most logical way of working. If I explain the motion in this way, I will still advise my group to vote against it, because it is not so negative. It sounds solid, but it seems like a bit of a lame motion to me. Then my own motion. At present, the United States House of Representatives has a law in which America stands above the rest of the world and the US judges are placed above the judges of the rest of the world. I think this is very undesirable, because it also undermines Dutch sovereignty. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the US House of Representatives is organising a hearing in the context of the Justice Against Terrorism Act (JASTA);]] [[whereas with JASTA the action of the Dutch government within the Netherlands can lead to liability in the United States and thus to astronomically high damages;]] [[whereas JASTA is a major and undesirable violation of Dutch sovereignty;]] [[Notes that the entry into force of JASTA as it currently stands is undesirable for the Netherlands;]] [[also states that this position is preferably expressed by the Dutch Parliament or, where appropriate, on behalf of the Dutch Government at the hearing held by the House of Representatives on JASTA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u12	With all due respect, is it not a little faint that in a procedural meeting we decide jointly to ask for a cabinet response on this issue, that Mr Recourt will not say anything and that he will now table a motion? Isn't this a little crazy politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u13	This was explicitly discussed in general consultation this morning. The CDA Group was not there. I asked if the Minister would like to point out to his colleagues in Europe that this is very undesirable and whether he would like to hang out with them. I also asked the Minister whether he would like to help find out how this hearing is being held and how the Dutch Parliament can make its opinion heard. Both of these cases have been promised. There was one thing left, and that is Parliament's statement that we find this undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u14	We would await the reaction of the cabinet. Anyway, Mr Recourt is free to table a motion. I do hear him explaining that the Minister must state that Parliament considers it undesirable that America... et cetera et cetera. I believe that we still have to decide for ourselves. I believe that a number of Members would like to hear the Minister's response before they make their views known. I find it strange that the Minister should be asked to make it clear on behalf of Parliament that it is undesirable what America is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u15	My motion does not touch the cabinet; it is an appeal to the Chamber itself. So the motion does not ask what the Minister thinks. I have done this now because according to the reports I have received, the first hearing will take place on 18 July or in the week of 18 July. I tried to check this out; maybe it's later. One of my questions to the Cabinet is to help organize this. I'm sure it was in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. Fraud involving European money must be combated effectively. According to the SP, this should be done by improving cooperation between Member States, by recovering funds from fraud and by improving OLAF's anti-fraud office. These are all proposals that the SP has always made. However, there is only one position in European cooperation: there must and will be a European Public Prosecutor's Office. The SP has been strongly opposed to this for a long time because it leads to the transfer of powers and because there are alternatives to working together. The SP therefore has so much appreciation for the motion in part No. 428 which has been submitted by the VVD that we have co-signed it. This is a good time because there is a lot of discussion about the intensity of European cooperation: how do you work together and in what areas, and whether or not powers should be delegated? Let the Netherlands now give that clarity. Working together, yes, but not a new transfer of powers and therefore not a European Public Prosecutor's Office. I would ask Mr Helder of the PVV to read this motion carefully. It calls on the Government to state that the Netherlands will not agree to the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. If you are against that European Public Prosecutor's Office, like the SP, I think you will have to vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u17	It appears to me that the Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen for their comments and the motions that have been tabled. Let me begin with Mr Van Oosten's motion on item No. 428. Perhaps it is a good thing that I look briefly at how we have been working together in the field of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It should first be noted that there is no possibility of voting on the proposal at tomorrow's JHA Council. It is an informal Council meeting with an informal exchange of views on, inter alia, the proposal for the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That means that this motion cannot be carried out tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, for the simple reason that there is no vote. In any case, I interpret the motion in such a way that the government is supposed to vote on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. If this motion is adopted, it will have to be adopted at the next opportunity. We shall then probably vote against a final package. Then it really makes sense. There is no point in voting against a partial package, because in the end there will be a final package. The report on the JHA Council will therefore not state that I have carried out the motion. I just want to make that quite clear. After all, I cannot carry out the motion tomorrow. What I can do is what I always do on behalf of this Chamber, and that is to say that the Dutch Parliament has great difficulty with the proposal for the European Public Prosecutor's Office. However, that is not news. I have already said this four or five times, also on the basis of motions for resolutions that have been adopted. Quite simply, this means that I will gladly convey this message, because I have been given this task by this Chamber before. With this motion, therefore, I will not do much in the next two days. That does not mean that this cannot be done in the longer term either, but it may be a reason for the proposers, for example, to hold the motion until the time when it does have a function, namely the time when the vote is to take place. That is my suggestion, but one does not have to follow it. An informal Council will take place tomorrow, so there will be no decision-making. We've made clear agreements with the Chamber. Together with the Eerste Kamer, the House of Representatives drew a yellow card. This led the Chamber to set up a rapporteur after a motion had been adopted. I do not remember for a moment whether a motion was a Record/Van Oosten or -Van Oosten/Recourt, but at least it was an amendment to a motion tabled by Mrs Helder. That motion stated that the House of Representatives was not in favour of the original proposal at that time. This was also expressed in the position paper, in which an overwhelming majority of the House of Representatives indicated that they could not agree to the original proposal. In that position paper, a majority of the Chamber, not being the PVV's and SP's political groups, indicated that a number of important changes were needed in the proposal before assessing the final result. The government has always carried out that task of a majority of the Chamber and we will continue to do so until the end result is there. After all, we made that agreement with the Chamber. It is said for a number of reasons that now is the time for the Chamber to pronounce, but at the moment there is no final result. The motion also states that France and Germany have just recently indicated their intention to extend the EPPO in the long term. With all due respect, the Foreign Ministers of France and Germany are not present in the JHA Council and do not have the right to vote. They have apparently expressed their opinion on how the EPPO should operate according to them. With all due respect, that is completely irrelevant to me. Only the Ministers of Justice from France and Germany can express their views on this matter. Moreover, the European Public Prosecutor's Office can only be extended if the Netherlands agrees. After all, unanimity is required for possible enlargement. It is therefore irrelevant what France and Germany want. It is even irrelevant what 27 Member States want, because it is what 28 Member States want. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u19	I am going to intervene, and that applies both to the spokesmen and to the ruler. This is a VAO. Questions and motions for resolutions must be answered in a short space of time. I understand that this has already been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u20	I am only walking forward because I have already heard the Minister say twice that it is irrelevant to him. That challenges me to indicate what I find irrelevant. If there is no decision-making in Europe, does that mean that this Parliament cannot take a decision? That is what is being asked for in the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u21	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. It is also intended that this Parliament should take a decision, because that is what we agreed on. But we also agreed that Parliament should take a decision on the basis of the final result. In this way it can be checked whether the mandate given to the government by a majority of the Chamber in the position paper has been properly carried out. The assessment should be made at that logical time. I come to the fourth sentence of the motion, which states that what is now before us does not satisfy the wishes of the majority of the House of Representatives. That may be so, because what is now before the JHA Council is a discussion on the PIV Directive and the EMO. We agree on this point, because the government also believes that it would be unwise to include VAT fraud in the PIV Directive in the broad sense. In that respect, we are therefore in agreement. I suspect, however, that this is not the intention of the motion. Finally, the motion calls on the government, through the European channels designated for this purpose, to indicate that the Netherlands will not agree to the creation of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. I understand from this that the Netherlands should already state that it will say no to the end result, no matter what it looks like. I'd like to hear if I understand the motion that way. It is important that this be explained, otherwise there may be doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u22	A brief interruption by Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u23	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I can only refer to what is stated in the operative part: 'the designated European channels'. I mean nothing more and nothing less. The Minister knows more than anyone how it works in Europe, because he is our representative in the European Council. I ask the House, together with a number of colleagues, to make a statement in line with previous statements made by this Chamber at the request of colleagues. I then ask the Minister to deal with that in wisdom, that is all I ask of him. I am not asking Europe, but my colleagues to make a decision. The Minister then has to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u24	Yeah, that goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u25	Then I suggest you give an opinion on the motion and move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u26	That's what I'm gonna do. I do not, of course, prejudice the Court's right to rule on a European Public Prosecutor's Office whenever the Chamber so wishes. I note that Mrs Van Toorenburg said: I see the motion in such a way that the direction it is currently taking is not the right one. That leaves the possibility that there could also be another side. That also makes sense, because negotiations are still under way. So I can see that Mrs Van Toorenburg is giving a slightly different interpretation of the motion than Mr Van Oosten has just done. That doesn't make the government's dilemma any easier. I also understand that Mr Van Oosten does not wish to hold the motion, which in my case I think could be a logical idea. Then I can't help but dissuade the motion. I'll see how the Chamber feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr President, I think you have listened better; I have indicated the context why I think it is a bit special that we are doing this now. We're doing this because it's going the wrong way. I think you have understood that very well and that the Minister may not want to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u28	You've made your point. Then the motion-Recourt in part No. 429.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-07-06-tweedekamer-9.u29	This motion is addressed to Parliament. I promised I'd find out what's going on with the hearing. I have also spoken with my Foreign Minister, who is also keen to play a role in this respect vis-à-vis your Chamber. I do not think it is up to me to rule on this motion, because the motion is not addressed to the government but to the Chamber.
