ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. This minister regularly beats himself up about the radicalisation policy in the Netherlands. Although DENK believes that the policy is selective because there is too little attention to extreme-right radicalisation, we also think that a lot of things are going well. Unfortunately, things also go wrong, as reports show that key people from the Muslim community are used as informants in Rotterdam, The Hague and Utrecht. They provide information about young people to civil servants, who may eventually end up with the police. The Ministry didn't want to respond to these messages on Friday. So I ask the Minister: are these messages correct? If so, do we not get caught up in the distrust of citizens? SPIOR from Rotterdam spoke of a "Muslim Investigation Service." How does the Minister feel about this? Doesn't this undermine the trust function of key people? Who can trust these young people to be used as informants? Does the Minister consider this approach to be legal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is important to distinguish between two groups in the policy to prevent radicalisation. The first is that of the professionals, the teachers, the youth workers, the neighborhood workers and the district agents. Through training we ensure that one is better able to recognize signals and know what to do with them. Secondly, it concerns those people who have a position of trust in the local community, who feel involved in that community and who are concerned about young people, which makes them a key figure. Next, the question is what someone should do with information he has knowledge of. The first category is information with a security risk, for example if there is reason to suspect that an exit or an attack is being prepared, or if someone is a threat. It is not a question of sharing that knowledge with the competent authorities; you are obliged to do so. A second category is the information that may be relevant. It makes a lot of difference what can be expected of you. For example, a lecturer or district agent should simply share that information. A third category is information that might be interesting. It's up to someone to decide if they want to share that information. In the latter case, it may prevail that someone knows that a boy has made strange statements but that this does not need to be shared further, because it is known that there is no security risk; it was a puberty action and it is all under control. That's up to the confidant himself. Legally speaking, it is crucial that every Dutchman is obliged to report knowledge he or she bears of a serious crime to the competent authorities. There may be things that are relevant to the police. You'll have to call it in. I think it's good that people realize that you're protecting us all by sharing security-relevant information. But you don't have to damage every position of trust, because it's ultimately up to people themselves to share other information or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	The Minister explains his policy but does not answer the questions I have asked. Once again, this minister continues to beat himself up, but there has been more criticism of radicalisation policy lately. What about the effectiveness of this approach? In Rotterdam, 100 key people trained with a lot of grant money only received 6 notifications, while parents and professionals received 30 notifications. Is this true? What kind of people actually become key people? Are these not the bobos and grant sponges who are always fishing for a job, the people who are fishing over the back of our young people for a little project and who are detached from their community? Isn't it better to support parents, citizens and education than to give money to these grant sponsors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	Parents, teachers, youth workers and police officers are supported. This is done at local level by the municipality and through the resources made available by the Empire to strengthen the approach to radicalisation. I think that is important to prevent young people from radicalising. It is important to protect these young people and to protect society. In addition, there are a lot of volunteers who care about those young people and who sometimes worry about the very rapid change in their behaviour. I would not want to make these volunteers suspicious, as Mr Öztürk is doing here. He accuses them of being sponsors, while these are concerned people who are worried about the young people in their group and are therefore making efforts to keep those young people involved. They explain how the Netherlands works. They're just keeping these kids on the straight track. I find that admirable. I think these people deserve a compliment instead of a blowout. No, there's no defined group of key figures. There's no definition that makes a person a key figure or not. There is a group of professionals who do very important work for the Netherlands. These people are standing in the mud with their paws. They can be found every day on the street, at school and in the neighbourhood centers. In addition, there are volunteers who care about the community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	The minister talks about volunteers, but that's the other side. These are mostly people from the well-known circuit, such as mosque directors, directors who are close to certain political parties. It is usually people who are asked to provide information and intelligence. I warned against these practices months ago. We are acting too much in this country out of distrust. So-called influential people create fear in the media, as our subsidy imam Elforkani did last week. What are these people then rewarded with? With a job? Or with a grant? A seat in the room? So this minister is using mosque leaders as a paid spy, but he refuses to secure this mosque. There have been terrorist attacks in a mosque in Enschede, and this minister does not want to use resources to secure that mosque. However, he asks drivers to provide information. This reminds me of Stasi practices. We have a General Intelligence and Security Service in this country and not a "Muslim Intelligence and Security Service"? I'm rounding up. Why this distrust, I ask the Minister. Why does he go into the frame of the right-wing parties? Why are problems approached from the mosques and Muslims, instead of giving confidence? Why do subsidy hunters and job hunters get money and mosques who want to be protected not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	You must have a lot of guts and be very bold to ask first why there is so much mistrust, and then with one sweep out of the pan people who work for the common good, such as mosque drivers and volunteers, to suspect here. I really like that, to use a good Dutch word. These people are committed to all of us. They do not deserve to be accused of Stasi practices here by a gentleman who really does not think for five more seconds. Then I come to the second point, namely safety. That point is really very important, because the same thing happens every time. The security of every Dutchman is equally nice to the cabinet. Any institution facing threats or violence can count on the government, whether it be an institution of Jews, Christians, Muslims or atheists. I went with the NCTV to the members of that Islamic community to assure them that if the analysis indicates that this is necessary, there will still be the same minute or second security. Where security is needed, there will be. I think it is a vote to pretend to make a distinction every time. Mr Öztürk knows very well that this is not the case. It is far too important to continue to stress, against our side-thinking, that every Dutchman deserves protection and security. Every Dutchman deserves to be protected from cheap suspicions and mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Öztürk, you have 25 seconds to make a final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister doesn't treat them equally. To synagogues he rightly gave 1.5 million euros, but not to the mosque in Enschede where two molotov cocktails were thrown in broad daylight, while according to the Public Prosecutor this was a terrorist act. He'll have to take that double size first. We do not suspect anyone, but we do not allow anyone to abuse this minister's practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	It stays with fact free. It is precisely on the basis of Enschede that the Public Prosecutor's Office has rightly been prosecuted for a terrorist attack. At Enschede, luckily, suspects were arrested very quickly. There can be prosecution and criminal law can do its job there. Just as a result of Enschede and the threatening letters to more than 30 mosques, I, together with the NCTV, also on behalf of the Minister of Security and Justice, had a discussion with the Islamic community. We do this on the basis of safety analyses and risk threats. We do so in the same way for all the inhabitants of our country. To deny that without giving you facts does not contribute to what we are dealing with here. I now hear Mr Öztürk making noise outside the floor. That's up to him, but it's usually a sign of weakness. What matters is that we treat people equally. And we'll keep doing that.
