ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Van Vliet. It is always a striking moment when a Member of Parliament, certainly from a one-man group, makes an active contribution to the legislative process by taking the initiative himself. For that he will undoubtedly receive valuable words. The MP is supported in box K by Chayenne van de Water and Thomas van Kuijk, policy staff of Mr Van Vliet. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. I would also like to welcome his official support, as well as the members of the Chamber and the public in the gallery and in so far as this programme is followed by other channels. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal treatment is planned at a later date in consultation with the initiator. I shall now be the first to give the floor to Mrs De Vries. She speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Vliet and his support. It is always a great deal of work to make an initiative proposal. Congratulations again. Especially for a one-man group, it's worth a job in itself and a compliment. The VVD considers it important that consumers do not unduly pay too much for means of payment. Costs must be reasonable, transparent and transparent. The VVD is therefore opposed to charging additional charges for a specific means of payment in addition to the actual costs. This is already regulated in the law. The VVD is in favour of multiple options in terms of payment methods for consumers, for example on the Internet. Surcharging, charging additional charges for a specific means of payment, often credit cards, is understandably often a great annoyance for consumers. This happens, for example, when ordering airline tickets, but also during meal delivery. It is particularly annoying because it is unpredictable and unpredictable. The current rules are difficult to enforce, but not impossible. The Authority Consumer & Market does not have a direct view of the actual costs of a company, as they may vary considerably. However, the ACM has recently carried out and acted in enforcement. Changes have also been made to the cost of meal delivery and airline ticket providers. How does the initiator, but also the Minister consider the possibilities for enforcement and recent enforcement by the ACM? The VVD questions the amounts that a ban would give consumers and is concerned about the impact on consumers. Eventually, the real cost of using a means of payment by the entrepreneur will be passed on to the consumer. A ban will make it more attractive for consumers to opt for a more expensive means of payment in the future, and that will eventually be passed on. The consumer who now uses a cheap means of payment will eventually contribute to the use of a more expensive means of payment by another consumer. How does the initiator come to the idea that consumers are given a wider choice of means of payment? According to the VVD, there is a real risk that the choice of the payment method on the Internet or in shops will decrease because entrepreneurs will no longer offer the more expensive payment method. The VVD would find this undesirable. What are the implications for consumer choice in payment methods, what are the changes in the market between the different payment methods when this proposal is introduced and how will it shift towards more expensive payment methods? I would like a response from the initiator and the Minister to these questions and points. The initiator chooses to widen the ban on surcharges than in the future PSD2 payment directive. It only prohibits surcharges for payments whose interbank fees are regulated by the Regulation on interchange fees. Expensive options, such as American Express and MasterCard and Visa business cards, are now also covered by this ban. Why does the initiator choose that? Well, then you're gonna make a bigger cost increase in the end, aren't you? The VVD Group understands that the initiator has had consultations with payment service providers and consumer organisations. Why has there been no consultation with, for example, Retailers Netherlands, Koninklijke Horeca Nederland, the ANVR and Thuiswinkel.org, who are also affected by this proposal? Can the Minister indicate when the implementing law for the payment directive PSD2 will come to the House of Representatives? What is the current state of play on the Payment Directive? Are any changes still possible? My group would welcome the adoption of the implementing law for the PSD2 payment directive in close consultation with industry and business interest groups and the explicit consideration of other recently introduced rules on interbank fees. Then there will be a clear framework with a workable situation for entrepreneurs. As far as we are concerned, this proposal is not now before us. All in all, the VVD Group thinks this bill to ban, limit and reduce any surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Does Mrs De Vries now say the following? Just throw this in the trash and wait two years for PSD2, and we'll see what to do about Brussels and then we'll do it without a national headline.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	One small proposal is now being taken out of the Payment Directive. It's being implemented. We think it is right to look at the proposal in its entirety. It is also necessary to look closely at a workable solution for business. I asked about the state of play of the payment directive and what could possibly be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Summarizing: this initiative proposal cannot count on the support of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have indicated that we think this is too short. Of course, I should like to hear Mr Van Vliet's response and the Minister's response. However, we have serious problems with the fact that this is restricting the consumer's choice and that there are significant increases in costs for consumers. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. My compliments to the author and the support for the fine work. D66 called for attention to be paid to this problem at the end of last year. We think it is important that the high costs that companies can now charge for, for example, paying by credit card should be put to an end quickly. Especially if you have no choice and can only pay with a credit card, you are forced as a consumer to accept those high extra costs. We still see that happening, including when booking airline tickets. The ban on so-called surcharges is also regulated in European legislation, namely in the PSD2. However, we have to wait for that for more than a year and a half. It is wise to settle this in Dutch law. The law already states that the seller may only pass on the actual costs. In practice, this is difficult to control and enforce by the supervisors. Some vendors take advantage of that. This initiative law puts an end to this and thus protects the consumer. The problem is, of course, that the good entrepreneurs suffer from the bad ones. The initiator mentions a number of reasons why the ban is also better on principle, including a level playing field for all means of payment. You can argue about that for a long time. We can talk about it for long or short, but without the excesses, without the sellers who shamelessly charge a fee that is totally out of proportion to the real costs, we would not have been here today. On the contrary, I believe that a ban on surfing is justified. In addition, it will in any case be established in 2018 EU-wide. I do have some questions about the impact on entrepreneurs. I start with the sellers who do not throw a big margin on credit card payments but simply pass on the cost of those payments to the customer and will not be allowed to do so anymore. On the one hand, entrepreneurs are helped by a recent amendment, namely the Regulation on interchange fees. This maximizes the cost that the publisher of the card asks of the bank/acquirer. This ensures that the costs that the bank charges to the seller can be reduced. On the other hand, I am looking for an extra guarantee. For the seller, the cost of accepting credit cards is usually made up of three components. These are, firstly, the charges that the credit card company charges to the bank, secondly, the additional charges that the bank then charges to the seller and, thirdly, often also the costs for the payment service provider. I'm sorry about all these terms, but they're in this law. The first cost item, known as the settlement fee, also known as the interchange fee, has been Maximised by the recent Regulation. The second cost component, the so-called merchant service charge, is not regulated. In particular, small entrepreneurs suffer when the bank's calculation costs are unreasonable, i.e. if they are not in a reasonable proportion to the maximum settlement fee of 0.3%. I hope the people at home can follow this. There is no immediate reason to believe that banks overcharge SMEs, but D66 likes to keep an eye on them to prevent this from happening. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to discuss the merchant service charge shortly in the social consultation on payment transactions. This is particularly important now that this legislative initiative proposes a ban on surcharging for all means of payment, including for payment cards not covered by the Regulation on interchange fees, such as American Express. Therefore, the interchange fees are not limited. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Finally, I have a question for the initiator. Is it true that other avenues, such as charging higher service costs, remain possible? Has he looked at this in the drafting of this initiative proposal? Are we here again next year to prohibit this excessive service cost? Then we just move the problem. I'd like to get a response from the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Next week it'll be vacation for a lot of people. People booked plane tickets and trips. One of the known annoyances is that all of a sudden there are all kinds of costs when you book them and you make the payment. Two years ago it was laid down by law that the costs relating to payment should not exceed the actual costs. Initiator Van Vliet says that this cannot be maintained. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he sees it that way. Is there a capacity problem? I see that the ACM is maintaining. Is that enough? To what extent can it now be said that companies still charge more costs than actual costs? First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Vliet on his own-initiative proposal and to express my appreciation for it, particularly because he has managed to achieve this as a one-man group. Making an own-initiative proposal is a lot of work. A year ago, I also told the credit card companies about this story. I was sympathetic to that at first. After all, it is about additional costs that are charged to the customer, but when I started to think more about it, I actually had more doubts about it. What happens if there is a ban on surfing? The supplier certainly makes a lot of money. These must then be taken into account in the total price of the product. Are payers of a debit card, i.e. from an ordinary debit card that we all know, then unsolicited payments towards the higher costs associated with credit card payments? That seems to me to be a very undesirable situation. It would be a shame, because we have very efficient payments in the Netherlands with very low costs, at least when it comes to payments with debit cards. Why should we tend towards a system of credit card payments and subsidise that system, when we know that its costs are much higher? I also wonder to what extent the initiator has talked to SMEs about this. A question was asked in the written round. He did indicate which parties he was talking to, but oddly enough that was not the retail sector, while you are still dealing with small entrepreneurs who may not be able to pass on their costs. And yes, then it's going to be in the price of those products. Holders of normal debit cards are going to pay that price and that is ultimately not in the interests of the consumer. Credit card payments are known to be many times more expensive than debit payments. I think that is a phenomenon in itself which we should pay a little more attention to. It could be a dozen times more expensive. Why is that even so? Isn't that worth investigating? Even after the restrictions imposed by Europe on multilateral interchange fees, credit card payments are still much more expensive than ordinary debit card payments. Should we not even look at the whole system of fees, including the merchant service charge, rather than just the surcharge? Mr Van Vliet says that his law pre-orders a law that comes thanks to Europe. When's that law gonna come? There was talk of 2018, but I understand that the Dutch implementation of PSD2 still has to go to the Council of State. Can that happen today and, if so, can we deal with that law this year? The law could then enter into force on 1 January 2017. In that case, we would only have a six-month saving in time. I'd like to hear more about it. What Mr Van Vliet is proposing is not the same as the European Commission wants either. The Commission indicates that PSD2 applies only to cards not covered by the Settlement Compensation Regulation. That seems to me to be a more logical choice. Mr Van Vliet makes his bill applicable to all cards. So it is not just a matter of bringing something forward, it is something else. It has been said that there is no obligation in PSD2. In fact, the optional issue is. Countries can decide for themselves whether they want the ban on surcharge or not. It seems to me to be a good thing to talk about this, particularly because I am concerned about the holders of ordinary debit cards. It's important to me that they don't pay anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. We thank Mr Van Vliet for his initiative law. Making a law and defending it is not nothing. To do that as a one-man group with limited support is worth a compliment. The speed with which the petitioner answered the questions in writing within two weeks is an example for many cabinet members. In the explanatory memorandum to the law, the petitioner makes clear where his motivation for the bill lies, namely to protect consumers from excessive costs for the use of a means of payment. This is common for websites for airline tickets, but also for food delivery sites. We have reservations about usefulness and necessity, the impact on smaller SMEs and the impact on debt. First of all, the necessity. The applicant is right that a ban on the charging of payment costs is most clear to the consumer, the supervisor and the entrepreneur. It is just not the case that nothing has happened in the last few years in the area of payment costs. For example, the maximum amount of debit and credit card charges allowed to be added to a selling price has already fallen significantly. Moreover, it is prohibited to charge more than the actual costs. For credit card use, that is 0.3% of the selling price. In any case, the cost of payments has already fallen considerably as a result of technological developments. The author has a point, however, when he says that it is difficult to maintain the infringements in this area. However, it is not the case that the consumer has no choice or negotiating power. He can also simply buy his product through a shop or a site that does not charge, or lower, charges for the payment. Last but not least, the author himself has already indicated that his proposal will soon come to us through European legislation. In his view, however, this is happening far too late. He does expect European legislation to come into force and to be implemented in the Netherlands after that. Perhaps there are some provisions in the European proposal that we do not support. Let us now, above all, make a stand-alone assessment of the legislative proposal before us. The CDA does not agree with the applicant's reasoning that companies should pass on the costs of, for example, credit card use in their products. This makes the products more expensive, even for people who do not pay by credit card at all. Or it could be at the expense of the entrepreneur's margin. Especially in SMEs, this can be difficult to compete with large companies. The petitioner says that SMEs lack economies of scale in more areas and that we have to accept that. That's not what the CDA's like in this game. We believe that SMEs should be able to earn a fair living and not be thwarted by Hague legislation. You'd only be an independent bicycle dealer, with a lot of customers who suddenly pay with a credit card because they can do this for free. This self-employed person loses margin on every bike, while the costs of the large Internet chain simply go on the big pile. We find that undesirable. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the debt problem. In the Netherlands the credit card is used relatively little. This usually happens when online payments are made on foreign websites. This is partly due to the charges charged for credit card use. We are concerned about the risk of credit cards being used more as a means of payment, which means that more is bought on pay-off, resulting in debt building. We are looking forward to the Minister's opinion on this. Does he see this risk? We just received a letter from the Minister about the phone subscriptions. We have come to know him in this as someone who protects people from being saddled with debts. We therefore expect him to follow this new development with particular interest. To sum up, the CDA currently sees more disadvantages than benefits from the initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the PVV, too, I congratulate the author and the support for the initiative proposal. I know from my own experience how good that support is. That is why the answers to the questions could be sent to the Chamber within two weeks. I agree with the initiator that the price of a product or service should not depend on the method of payment. Competition must be based on price and quality and not on means of payment. We know that one means of payment is cheaper for the entrepreneur than the other. However, it is up to the entrepreneur to determine which means of payment he offers the customer. We think it's only natural that he shouldn't pass the costs on to the client. The PVV can therefore agree to the prohibition of surcharging. We do have a few questions. Does a ban on surcharging not lead to fewer options for the customer, because entrepreneurs are going to avoid expensive means of payment? Isn't the ban on surfing leading to higher prices for everyone? Doesn't the ban cause any disruption? After all, companies could start offering discounts: if you don't pay with a credit card, but with, for example, Afterpay or PIN payment, you get a 5% discount. Aren't we just as far from home? Shouldn't the merchant service charge be maximized, as should the settlement fee? Is it true that this bill sets the settlement fee between bank and card issuer to zero instead of the maximum 0.3%? What does that mean, given the waterbed effect, for the merchant service charge, the costs for the company or the credit card fee that the consumer has to pay? Is it gonna go up later? I am asking, because the credit card companies will continue to rake in their money on the left or right. So they simply revolve it around whether the entrepreneur or the consumer. Finally, a question to the Minister. Is this initiative proposal exactly in line with PSD2 or is it in conflict with it in some respects? We don't want to have to change everything again in a year and a half. The initiative focuses on a wider prohibition of surcharching than required in PSD2, because the tripartite transactions are also involved. What does this mean for the competitiveness of the Netherlands? Are they national headlines, which we all hate so much, or are they permitted additions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to Mr Van Vliet for having supported this initiative proposal with his entire group. Congratulations to the staff, who have made an important contribution to this. We know the problem; several colleagues have already outlined it. I hope to fly my son to Rome from 14 on Tuesday. As a bishop, you will appreciate it, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	I am not allowed to comment on that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	Then you google the plane tickets. Eventually I was at a price of €260 for two tickets and that is of course not too expensive. Frankly, I had included all my data and I only saw afterwards at the real checkout that there was still €7.50 allocated to credit card charges, namely 2.88% of the price I actually thought I was paying. That's pretty bizarre because the cost, if you go by the data, is actually about 0.3%, while you pay almost 3%, almost ten times as much. I think that's where the problem lies. As an economist I think: if you see it right in advance, it's actually not a problem. You'll take it into your decision to go for one or the other provider. The problem is, of course, that some providers do not have the choice between means of payment at all, but well: you could then go to another provider who does not charge those costs. So the problem is not so much the cost as the fact that you only see afterwards that these costs are added. Stupid consumers as yours truly see it too late. If you saw it in time, what's the problem? That is the problem I think the initiator is trying to fix. That is why I have sympathy for his proposal. Mr Ronnes has just rightly said that it is forbidden to charge more than the real costs, but this example shows that it does. As Mr Ronnes says, enforcement is the real problem. Am I gonna complain? Then I think: well, then I'll pay that €7.50, because at least I'll have those tickets. We doubt whether the proposal for an initiative will provide the best solution. That doubt is such that the applicant's response is crucial to our choice of whether or not to agree to the proposal. After the previous speakers, I cannot be original anymore, and that is why I will be very brief. I agree with them on the crucial points. Are the iDEAL contributors, for example, going to contribute to these costs? Are they going to pay extra in relation to the people who use a credit card? How does this relate to encouraging the most efficient means of payment? That's what the Chamber really wants. We need to introduce incentives into prices so that people can make use of the cheapest system. That's good for everyone, and that can save you a 1 billion a year. If you do it this way, you'll probably get some kind of average cost and you'll lose that incentive. How does the initiator view this? Ideally, you want the price to be equal to the cost, you would say from the economic theory. Where the initiator discovers market failure in the market I think he's right about this proposal again leads to government failure, because you solve it in a way that makes you no longer see the real cost of the means of payment. So you slow down the choice of efficient means of payment. I would also like to mention the issue of entrepreneurs, particularly small entrepreneurs. Are they not facing problems because they are no longer able to recoup the actual costs? Furthermore, there is the point of the way out. In my opinion, there are two options that mean that you no longer get a charge of €7.50 for your credit card, but that simply charge administrative fees; some websites are already doing so. Is this also prohibited, I ask the initiator. I don't think so. So aren't there all kinds of ways to do that? Mr Van Dijck also mentioned a nice way: you don't pay extra charges when you make a credit card payment, but get a discount if you do it in other ways. I'd like to hear the initiator about that. Those are our main doubts. We in the group will also consider very carefully what the initiator thinks of it; you will not mind, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	I wish you every success in the discussions in the group and wish you a safe journey. Thanks for the input. I give the floor to Mr Nijboer, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Chairman. I too will begin by congratulating the initiator and the support. I was able to defend an initiative law myself once and know how much work it is. I think it is right, also parliamentaryly, for the Chamber itself to take legislative initiatives. It has been happening on a regular basis lately, and I very much welcome it. However, I have some critical questions about the bill. However sympathetic the PvdA is in principle, especially when it comes to consumer protection, I do have a number of reservations, which I would like to put to the author. Most of them have been mentioned, by the way. My first point concerns what Mr Dijkgraaf started with. I think we all share that. The point is that there is no high cost of credit card payments as a earning model, in practice the most popular payment method. Especially in the case of airline tickets; I know the experience too. There's a lot of it in hotels, too. You cross-referenced everything, this and that, and everything, including your passport number, and then you add a tenner. Then you think: look at it, I'll pay it; I've just been looking forward to it and I'm not going to do it all over again. But that's no way to be honest and just doing business. It's also forbidden by law. My question on this is a little addressed to the initiator, but also to the Minister. There's a reason we're passing laws here. It is prohibited by law to charge the consumer more than what it costs the seller, the airline or others. A note has been sent by the Authority Consumer & Market, and it has been dealt with at that time, but that is a way of enforcing which I do not get enthusiastic about. I actually think it's kind of bad that when you see the law being broken, you send a note and hope it goes well. I expect fines and gigs and a little publicity around them. I expect people to say that this company has done something that is not allowed under the law and we are acting against it in an enforcement manner. For example, it has happened with airline tickets, but Mr Dijkgraaf is now sitting with the €7.50, which has been knocked out of his pocket while it is up to me, if I calculate it so quickly, to be €0.80 or so. How is it that according to the law it can be up to 0.3%, and one still gets over it so often? If the minister can solve that, or the supervisors, the main problem is solved, I think. That would also be the PvdA's preference. The second point concerns total costs. We often have discussions about payment systems and I am happy to participate in them myself, but in fact we as the Netherlands can be proud of the way we have arranged it in the Netherlands. Pin payments take place a lot and are a relatively cheap way to pay, much cheaper than credit cards. Everyone sees that too; it's not for nothing that you have to pay a lot more for credit cards in restaurants and stuff. After all, those restaurant owners have to pay a lot more when someone pays with a credit card than when someone pays with the pin. If we make it equally expensive for the consumer, namely free of charge, doesn't there risk that consumers will use many more credit cards? Doesn't that lead to much higher social costs? Mr Dijkgraaf has already asked for this. Or higher costs for SMEs? Mr Ronnes of the CDA pointed that out. And is that desirable and reasonable, if there are higher costs? A credit card is also another product. It's a payment card, but it also gives you gifts, you get pulled in and there's insurance on it. So it's really something other than a debit card. Is it really desirable that we make that card unreasonably cheap? My third point is perhaps the most important one. The PvdA is concerned about the debts in Dutch society, also for consumers. We have already had discussions here about red standing on ordinary payment accounts, but credit card companies have partly based their business model on as many debts as possible and ask for hugely high interest rates. If credit card payments are made free of charge and an advertising campaign is thrown into it, and if you get a gift when you spend a lot of money on them, then that's a loyalty gift, that's not what you get from a bank's ordinary debit card, is the depositor not afraid that there will be a lot more credit card payments and that the debt position of households will increase and that people and families with debt problems will be tempted to spend more? Should we encourage this indirectly? The answer of the PvdA would be: no. I have real concerns about this, regardless of consumer protection and costs. Should you want to encourage the use of a credit card, while the debit card is a very nice means of payment? It is cheap, efficient and does not lead to unreasonable debts. Is this not a major risk associated with this proposal? The applicant rightly has a point concerning the cost of credit cards. The profits are too high and are often not passed on, enforcement is bad, and that needs to be improved. However, there are concerns in three areas: the total cost, the use of credit cards and the coherence with Europe, which has already been mentioned. The PvdA Group submits these concerns to the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	I find it striking that the PvdA actually says: we should not make credit cards for free. Like this initiative proposal makes a credit card free. A credit card costs a lot of money. You pay 13% interest on the outstanding balance and you pay a lot of money every year for your credit card. A credit card is therefore already a cost for the consumer. Today we are talking about whether you should be punished for using a credit card per transaction. As I listen to the PvdA now, the PvdA says: we find that right; if you pay with a credit card, you have to pay an extra penalty in relation to a debit card. The PvdA prefers to be pinned rather than waved with a credit card.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	Pin payments are quite unique in Dutch. The pin works very differently abroad. In other countries there are many more credit card payments. It's efficient, it's cheap. If you make credit card payments for free, they will increase. Mr Van Dijck will agree with me. But they're more expensive. This means that the costs will have to be paid either by the entrepreneur or by all other consumers who do not want to use a credit card. I do not think that is desirable or reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	So the PvdA doesn't see anything in this bill, because then credit card payments are "free" in the eyes of the PvdA. I have just said that the other costs in the background do indeed play a role. The PvdA must therefore inform its minister that he should not agree to PSD2, which is now on the shelf, because PSD2 assumes that no charges will be charged for a credit card transaction. This proposal for an initiative is ahead of schedule. In other words, give that to the Minister so that he knows what to do in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	I've also asked questions to the Minister. I suspect that Mr Van Vliet will go into detail about the differences between his own initiative proposal and the legislative proposal before us in Europe, because that is what has been asked for. Concerns about the increasing use of credit card payments and whether you should want to stimulate them directly or indirectly as a policy, while debt is already such a big problem, also play a role in the European debate. I'll give it to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The response by the initiator and the Minister's response will be scheduled at a time to be specified.
