ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u1	We will continue with the next VAO, in which almost the same spokesmen participate. They're all here, so we're moving on fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have had extensive general consultations on this subject. I have concluded with the words: that which may be legal can therefore still be very questionable and wrong. The inspection has carried out an investigation into that. When you read the inspection report, you come to the conclusion that there's a sign of conflict of interest. However, it does not give a complete insight into how all financial flows run. You need to know this in order to determine whether, for example, there has been a market-based behaviour or whether there has been some sort of self-enrichment at the expense of people who depend on care. In the AO, extensive efforts have been made to convince the Secretary of State that a more in-depth investigation of all money flows is needed. In the reply he was not entirely clear or expeditious to do so. That is why, together with Mr De Lange of the VVD Group, I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the inspections and the Secretary of State of VWS have already found that there is an undesirable appearance of conflict of interest;]] [[Whereas the inspection could not exclude that the Foundation's actual action is contrary to the prohibition of profit distribution;]] [[Whereas the inspection and the NZa have seen reason to carry out additional investigations;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this investigation will also reflect the total financial flows to and from Alliade, Freya Holding and the underlying bvs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer and Mr De Lange. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u3	The Secretary of State has promised that we will have this investigation before the end of the year. We'll hold him to that, too. That's why there's no date in this motion. I very much hope that research into money flows can find them, because, as has been said more often, care money has to go to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u4	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, at last, to put an end to the carousel of dysfunctional managers;]] [[calls on the government to stop the double hats in supervisors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. Care money must be spent on good care. Therefore, it was good that we had a broad general discussion on everything related to Alliade, the Freya Group and all the underlying bv's. I believe that the necessary steps have been taken during the general consultations. It is a good thing that additional questions have been asked, because that is necessary to get a broader picture of what the financial flows were about. I shall table a motion with Mr Keijzer. I'm not doing that so much because I don't think it's clear what the Secretary of State is going to do. I am doing it because I think it is important to send a clear signal from Parliament on this point as well. I therefore see this as a support in the back of the inspections and of what the Secretary of State is doing. As a parliament, we send out a clear signal to Alliade, the Freya Group and all the underlying e.g. that we want to know what is going on. As far as I am concerned, the following motto applies to the whole of further research. If the book of Alliade is to be closed, it is of the utmost importance that the books open to gain insight. That's what we like to be reported on. If it's okay, it's gonna happen before Christmas. I wish the inspections every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u6	Mr. Chairman. I wish it was an incident that happened at Alliade's. We do not know whether there are any other health care institutions that use their subcontracting, their e.g. structure, money, and whether there is a conflict of interest or the appearance of conflict of interest. We do know that a lot of healthcare institutions have subcontracting and that they actually have only one goal, namely by means of which they contract, tender and pay out profits. When this law was made, a dissertation was published on the possibility of profit distribution by the subcontractor. I would like this debate on Alliade to be supported by the Keijzer/De Lange motion. 168 Moreover, it does not only lead to a debate on how much we feel about this institution, but also to prevent it from becoming a widespread phenomenon. The Secretary of State did not want to discuss this in the debate, and that is why I am obliged to table this motion. I sincerely hope it will be implemented. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more health care organisations are providing services by subsidiaries;]] [[noting that, with the construction of e.g. the possibility of winning and leaking care money is created and that it leads to opacity because the underlying e.g. the obligation to publish annual accounts is not equal, such as health care institutions;]] [[noting that there is no monitoring of multiple interests in the situation that directors, for example, are also owners, shareholders or directors of the e.g. who are commissioned by the healthcare organisation;]] [[considers that there should be supervision of the undesirable appearance of conflicts of interest, as well as of profit distributions through the e.g. structure;]] [[calls on the Government to have the NZa investigate the extent to which health care institutions have subsidiaries, the possible appearance of conflicts of interest between those health care institutions and how the financial flows run,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-23235-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr. Chairman. The motion-Keijzer/De Lange in part No. 168 touches on the debate we have had here in the Chamber on what the scope of the extended investigation should be. I believe that I said at the time that I very much welcome this broadening and that I am aware that we must therefore look at the financial flows. That's why I want to take over the motion. I know that's possible these days. I have one comment to make. I've just had eye contact with the timing of the investigation, but I can't predict how long that research will last, because I don't know what one encounters. I'm not sure there should be any more forensics. I'm really trying to get the research to take place in early spring 2017, but I can't comment on the duration of the research right now. We will broaden the investigation. On that point, I will take over the motion, but I would ask the Chamber to understand that I cannot now see how long the investigation will take. I will, of course, have it done as soon as possible, but I really cannot tell you how long it will take.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u8	If your motion is taken over, you'd think you've accomplished what you want. But then the Secretary of State says something else. The investigation is being widened, with the possibility that forensic research will take place. That's where he gets the pinch. We had a discussion in the AA about what a study of money flows means. Is that a forensic investigation or not? If the Secretary of State says that broadening the investigation means that the relevant expert auditors are doing forensic research into the money flows, I say: that's good. Then I'm glad the Secretary of State is taking over the motion. So I want the Secretary of State to say yes to that question. I've been looking into the AO's conclusions. The AO's report states: "I thank the Secretary of State and his officials. I thank everyone for their interest. I'm gonna walk by the commitments. Around the turn of the year, the Chamber will be informed of the results of the additional research carried out by the IGZ and the NZa in the case-Alliade." What's happened since then?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u9	Nothing has happened but that I have to predict when the investigation will take place. If Mrs Keijzer says it should be ready by Christmas, then I really can't promise it. I hope it can be done as soon as possible, around the turn of the year or after, but I cannot make a prediction because I do not know what is encountered in the investigation. The motion calls on the government to ensure that the investigation will also reflect the total financial flows to and from Alliade and Freya holding. The answer to that is yes. That's why I'm taking over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u10	So you confirm Mrs Keijzer's interpretation, namely that forensic research will also be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u11	It's known how forensics are doing. You can do that the moment you have reason to do it. Then it will also be part of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u12	Mrs Keijzer, is that enough for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u13	No, this is a reason for me to think again about what we are going to do next. This is exactly what we in the AA have been through. It seems like the Secretary of State says he's going to do as I ask, but then he always slips away in his words. I'm gonna let this work on me. I object to the motion being taken over. That is my right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u14	Excellent. The motion will not be taken over, but will continue to be part of the debate and will come back to the voting list, perhaps if I listen to Mrs Keijzer in a strengthened form. Mrs Leijten, I would like to make as few interruptions as possible, but I understand that this was a sensitive point during the debate. I'll allow a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u15	I have an informative question for the Secretary of State. Has the investigation started yet? I imagine you can't mention all the research questions, but I think it's good to know if the research is already going on. In situations like this, it is of course possible for things to be removed. We must not wait, but hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u16	The answer is: yes, even after intensive contact with the whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u17	Now that the motion is not taken over, I assume the Secretary of State will leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u18	Yes, I have no problem with the wording of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u19	Fine. We're moving on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u20	That's the motion in part No. 169 by Mrs Agema. In that she asks me to put an end to the carousel of dysfunctional managers and double hats. This motion is very general. I would point out that it is up to the supervisory board in an institution to ascertain how a driver has operated in a previous position. In the debate I indicated that there is already a ban on administration in the Civil Code. Foundation directors who have been dismissed by the court for malpractice or acts contrary to the law or statutes cannot become directors of a foundation for a period of five years. In addition, the IGZ can have a permanently dysfunctional driver replaced by a lead. In short, there are plenty of possibilities. I'm dissuading the motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 170. I would like to see if I can come to an approach with the applicant. In the debate I indicated that it is important to me that it is not just the case of Alliade. We must avoid making up all kinds of structures that circumvent the profit ban or the WNT. I have asked the supervisors to do this research and to indicate what they are learning from it. See if there are any rules that are obstructive and that might be modified. Mrs Volp indicated in the debate that we should not only look at the Alliade case, but also at the consequences for supervision now and the supervisory rules and what is more. The motion calls for an investigation into the extent to which health care institutions operate with subsidiaries. That's a very broad investigation that's going to take a very long time. I would like to use the case of Alliade to answer the following questions. What does this actually mean for the supervision and the rules? What does this mean for the functioning of institutions? What does this mean for the governance code? In that light, I want to take it with me. We share the approach that we must avoid all kinds of constructions that undermine the rules we have set, for example on profit and pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u21	Healthcare institutions are required to publish: www.jaarrapportsorg.nl. That's quite a few, I think 1,100. These are hospitals, care institutions for the elderly, etc. In the organogram that should be recorded, you can see if there is an bv-tree, so to speak. If so, you can say: in so many percent of the cases care institutions have that construction. And then you could zoom in closer. I'm asking the Secretary of State to do it so pragmatically. The moment you go in there as a journalist or a scientist, I think you should be out in three weeks. We have the NZa for this, don't we? We have a supervisor for this. I really want to avoid that, when we get the results of the research on Alliade, it is said again: this was an incident, we do not have to do anything, we do not know the scope of the application of this construction in the care, so we are not going to take general measures. Does the Secretary of State still see a middle way to get a broader picture of how often this construction is applied in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u22	Honestly, that's what I'm looking for. I want to prevent us from having to look at all the health care institutions that are e.g. There is sometimes nothing wrong with that; e.g. sometimes allowed. This can be a very normal way of working, for example, to avoid risks to the large institution or to separate risks. Sometimes there are other reasons for doing it that way. There's nothing wrong with that. What we want to avoid with each other is that constructions are invented or formed to avoid a number of rules. We don't want that. I'm looking for a way to learn from this. We need to learn lessons from the Alliade case, we need to ask the supervisors what these lessons mean for their supervisory tools and whether they want to look again at whether the current rules need to be adapted in this respect. We need to ask the supervisors a more detailed opinion on what to learn from the Alliade case. Then I can have the debate with your Chamber and see if it will lead to further regulation. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that it should not be left to 'this is a case and then it is done'. We must learn lessons from this and if they are to be drawn, then they must lead to further steps. That's actually what I'm looking for. I can also imagine that Mrs Leijten might continue the motion until the results of the study are available. Then we can see what follow-up steps are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u23	If this investigation comes back and you're going to do further research right away, that's a reason not to change policies. I would rather not do that, because I often criticize it enough. I would like it if we used the time in the case of Alliade to see to what extent it occurs. If I change the motion in such a way that the operative part is 'to have the NZa investigate the extent to which health care institutions work with subsidiaries', point, then it is not necessary to look at whether there is a sign of conflict of interest and the financial flows do not need to be mapped out, but we will find out how often it occurs. The law that makes this possible has been in place for ten years and this kind of question does not arise in the evaluation of that law. I really think it is true that, if you have the annual reports examined by the NZA which is there for............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u24	I think we're almost there. What I want to avoid is that the NZa has to look at a lot of institutions to see what's going on before they can draw conclusions. It is not just about the annual reports, because it does not always contain everything. For example, I have asked the NZa to talk to a number of experts who are involved in these kinds of constructions and who have a great deal of understanding about them. Then you will find out how often it occurs, why it is applied, what its advantages and disadvantages are and what that means for supervision and regulation. I would like to report to the NZa that she should not only investigate Alliade, but also think about its own supervisory tools and consult experts to see why it occurs, to what extent it occurs and what happens in practice. At the same time, the NZa must look at the rules that exist to ensure that it remains in good jobs. If I did, wouldn't we have gone a long way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u25	May I present to you both something? There is still some time between now and the votes. I can tell there's room here. Perhaps you could speak again outside this sitting to see if you can get closer together. We don't just have to do the exact negotiations here. The Secretary of State could suspend his assessment of the motion until the motion has been changed and then let the other members know. Is that a possibility to move on to the next VAO?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u26	Yes, let's do that, because if the Secretary of State says what he wants to do here, it's also investigating the extent to which it occurs, and that's exactly the thrust of the motion. So I think we're almost there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u27	I'm tasting space with you both, and I'd like to introduce you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u28	I have the same willingness, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-01-tweedekamer-24.u29	Fantastic. Then we have come to the end of this VAO. We expect an amended motion from Mrs Leijten on this point. The votes will take place next Tuesday.
