ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by welcoming Mrs Wijker, who is in the chair. You would have done so yourself, so I am doing so on your behalf. Or do you still want to do it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Well, I would like to welcome Mrs Van Wijker to the President's Lodge. Mrs Van Wijker is referred to by Mr Ulenbelt as "Mrs Ulenbelt." Now you can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	Exactly. I was pleased to hear that it is indeed Mrs Wijker or Mrs Van Wijker and that she has her maiden name and is not 'the wife of'. We all know that she played a leading role in Mr Ulenbelt's many debates and contributions. I think Mr Ulenbelt will deal with this later. So welcome from my side too! Unfortunately, underpayment and exploitation continue to occur in the Netherlands. We have set a legal minimum wage, because we believe that there is a minimum that everyone should earn at least for the hours he or she works, regardless of your work, your work speed and whether you are young or old. It is therefore a good thing that we are reviewing whether this is still being done. I'll deal with youth pay first. In March 2015, young people from Young & United started their campaign for the abolition of youth pay. They got thousands of young people up and worked together with all kinds of youth organisations. Their petition was signed over 130,000 times. We all remember the 19-year-old soufian, who undressed half at Ahold's shareholders' meeting: "To match your one-year pay, I have to work 299 years," he said to the CEO. We also remember that a group of young people did the same in our general consultation in the Lower House. That was activism with a clear goal: a fair reward for work, regardless of age. The statutory minimum wage is designed to enable employees to go through life independently. For young adults who have to work for less, we apparently accept that they work full-time and cannot still live on their own. During last year's hearing in the Lower House, young people who were paid much less for exactly the same work than their colleagues were. Think of the young woman who worked as a coupeuse in a bridal shop. She had been trained, did a wonderful job and was just as good as her older colleagues, but she was still on that minimum youth wage. Also think of young people between the ages of 18 and 22 who had to take care of themselves, earn an income and often no longer wanted or could live with their parents. Because of their low youth pay, they often could not even rent a room or had no money left to eat well. The current system assumes that young adults can fall back on their parents. But it can't always be. It shouldn't be in a country where you're supposed to be an adult when you're 18. If you are 18 years old in the Netherlands, you can drive, vote and drink alcohol and pay the full pound for your health insurance, rent and groceries. You have all the rights and duties of an adult, but you deserve a lot less than anyone above 23. That's not fair. The only beneficiaries are the large companies with a business model in which they have exported minimum youth wages to a maximum, at the expense of young people. Making everyone from 18 years of age receive an adult wage is a matter of course for GroenLinks. At the beginning of 2012 our then spokesperson Social Affairs Klaver already suggested to cancel the youth wage from 18 years old. That year it was also in our election program. With the cabinet's proposal, the age for the adult minimum wage goes down first to 22 and two years later to 21. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is a step in the right direction. I would also like to congratulate the Minister on that. But we are not here yet, because of course this is not yet a completely fair reward. As far as we are concerned, we are putting an end to this age discrimination and there is equal pay for equal work for all adults, including from the age of 18. My contribution and my amendment to the legislative proposal will therefore not be surprised. The current youth wage provides underpayment of young workers and unfair competition for older workers. According to opponents, young people would quit their education and work straight away. That hasn't been proven anywhere. Countries without youth wages do not have this experience either. There is also little evidence of the argument that the labour market position of young people is deteriorating when youth wages are increased. In Denmark and Austria there is no separate youth wage and there youth unemployment is lower than in the Netherlands. GroenLinks is for equal pay for equal work, whether you are 18, 28 or 38. Training and experience should determine your salary, not just your age. What does the Minister think of the principle of equal pay for equal work? Does this also apply to an 18-year-old or a 19-year-old? Isn't this kind of principle just important to stick to, not to say unnegotiable? I come to the other two parts of this legislative amendment. 155.000 people work for piecework, paying for every product they produce instead of the work they do in hours. For some, this may work well if they work faster than the norm or if there is a fair time and price for the work they do. For those who earn little, often people with a weak position in the labour market, it is bad. The time in which they have to make a product or deliver a package has been longer than the standard. As a result, they work many hours for a small amount and their salary is far below the minimum wage. That's exploitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	I was just chewing on Mrs Voortman's previous point. I agree with her that the starting point should be equal pay for equal work, and that we should reward it by performance rather than age. She asked the Minister whether it would not be an unnegotiable principle in one go to 18 years. I think that she is referring to an earlier breaking point of the Minister that he has expressed as the candidate for the Labour Party list. But do I hear Mrs Voortman announce a breaking point of GroenLinks here or have I misunderstood her?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	This is a point that we have been in our electoral programme for a long time and which is indeed very important to us. I have not heard that the Minister would prefer 18 years, but that this would be necessary for another reason. That's why we say you have to handle 18 years if you're really for equal pay for equal work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	My question was about the fact that Mrs Voortman said it was an unnegotiable principle. That raised the question whether this is a breaking point for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	This is a very important point for us. We do not formulate breakpoints, but this is very important to us. I hope this point is also important for D66. I just saw a video in which D66 is quite right to be happy about what we have achieved here, but there were also things said about equal work for equal pay. I assume that this also applies to young people from the age of 18 and that Mr Van Weyenberg will not say that he is entirely happy, but that a separate wage for young people aged 18 or 19 is fair. I assume Mr Van Weyenberg will say that later. People who work overtime, but then are not paid well for it because employers apply the minimum wage per week, that too is exploitation. I'll be brief about this. GroenLinks supports the proposal to review the regulation of piecework and additional work in order to better prevent underpayment and exploitation. I have both cases that are very important to enforcement. Does the Minister expect the Inspection SZW to have sufficient capacity and ability to maintain properly? As the Minister points out, a uniform minimum wage can help to maintain the minimum wage properly. In the note on the report he writes that he is still working on a uniform minimum statutory hourly wage, but that it takes time to come up with a careful proposal. When does the Minister expect this proposal to come to the Chamber? Finally, I have a question about exploitation and enforcement that is related to this. At the beginning of this year we saw in a broadcast of Rambam how cleaners in hotels were paid per room. They were given far too little time per room and were considered unpaid by working in their own time. Thus they were paid far below the minimum wage for their work. These are people who have an hourly wage contract, but who were paid out through a dubious calculation scheme per room. In fact, therefore, there was piecework here, of course, without it being so marked. GroenLinks believes that this kind of underpayment should be taken seriously. The Minister wrote that also in 2016 the cleaning of hotels has the continued attention of the Inspection SZW. How much of that do we see now? How many fines have been issued? In 2015, approximately a quarter of inspections detected an infringement. That's reason enough to be on top of it. What's that like in 2016? Is there sufficient enforcement or is there a need for additional action? Do these kinds of disguised piecework constructions occur more often and, if so, what is the Minister going to do to counter them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. I start with compliments for the boys and girls of FNV Young & United who fought the battle. They were supported in the fight against youth pay by a broad coalition of youth organisations. And they've achieved a lot. In my opinion, it has never happened before that a large number of cities in the Netherlands declared themselves free of youth wages. This means that they do not conclude contracts with companies that still pay youth wages. For the first time in 40 years, something has changed and improved around youth wages. That is the great success of these actions. In one of these actions, the Minister acknowledged that the minimum youth wage for a group of young people is a real problem. He literally said: "If you work full-time as an 18- or 19-year-old and you also have to pay the rent, that's almost impossible to do." What the Minister says is true. We heard that from all those kids. The big problem, however, is that this law does not solve this. The young people are protesting at half pay for the whole job. In this law, the final situation is that an 18-year-old stays at half wage. Then the question is whether the Minister still acknowledges that you have a real problem with half a wage if you have to rent a house. Half-wage is a serious problem. If you now got 50% discount on presentation of your ID everywhere, it was all possible, but that is not the case. During the hearing organised by the Chamber, Hennie actually said that he had to undergo an operation, but that he could not afford to pay the youth wage. That's painful. What is the Minister's response to young people when this law comes into force? Youth pay is a poignant form of inequality. Soufian was also mentioned by Mrs Voortman. Anyone could see on the tube that he took off the right half of his clothes. He had to pay half the price for that jacket, but well, for half a wage you only have half a jacket. He did that at Albert Heijn's shareholders' meeting. He was counting on that meeting for him to spend 299 years as a course filler! In order to earn the same income as the annual salary of his senior boss, the courses had to be filled. That's inequality. Anneloes said at the hearing, "Topmen eat steak at night, I eat a peanut butter sandwich at night." Youth pay is a violation of the principle of equal pay for equal work. The Minister is not off the hook to tell how he is going to work in Europe for equal pay for the same work, but he does not arrange this for all working young people in the Netherlands. Why not, is a justified question that I am now asking the Minister. 18 years, you're an adult. You have to take out health insurance, you can drive without your parents, you can buy alcohol and drink, you can have the right to vote, you can sign contracts, you can get married, and you can still go to the casino. There's gonna be few people on youth pay who can go there, but it's okay if you're 18. And you'll be financially responsible at 18 years. The SP has long held the view that adulthood is an adult wage. Not a half wage, but a wage you can really live on. At Albert Heijn and McDonald's alone, they knock about 79 million out of the pockets of working young people every year. Those figures about the theft give FNV Young & United. Companies can hold some of the wages that go with adulthood in their pockets, and in that sense they are actually pickpocketers. In that sense, youth pay is actually theft. This isn't a figment of today. I have a poster that dates back to the end of the 1970s, which says: 'Youth wages are theft'. At the time of that poster I met Mrs Ulenbelt; she is now on the stage. She was with the KWJ, the Catholic Working Youth, I was with the young people of the NVV. The NNV Youngsters said, "Minimum wage at 18 years," and the KWJ said, "Minimum wage 18 years now." You can imagine what battle has been fought between both clubs and between me and Mrs Wijker on the question of what should be on the banner and posters. We have never been able to solve that problem. Her reproach to me when it was all about youth pay again was: "If you had said "Minimum wage now," we wouldn't have to demonstrate together with FNV Young & United." I think Mrs Ulenbelt was right on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	After so many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	That was the end of the seventies; then we talk about more than 40 years. Anyway, we demonstrated together on 15 October last year with FNV Young & United and the other youth organisations. The official motto was, I didn't think of it, it's a quote: "Fuck youth pay." I'm sure if we had thought of that at the time, we would have figured it out. In any case, Mrs Ulenbelt and I were very much in agreement on the motto of this demonstration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	A low youth wage makes education attractive to get a high wage later, writes the CPB. But then you're out of reality. When I was in college, at most 5% of the students worked. Today 95% work and why? To prevent them from getting into debt and to survive. Under these conditions, a higher wage for young people means that they can work shorter and study more. What the CPB is saying is in any case outside reality. During the hearings, there was someone who experienced this in person. That was Yorrick. He said: I want to learn and start a new study, but the costs are too high and wages are too low. That's exactly the problem. Young people are being prevented from studying because they have low incomes. A remarkable part of this story is that employers receive subsidies to pay the slightly higher youth wages. My question to the Minister is: why subsidies for employers and why, therefore, from the Disability Fund? Why do companies that pay their young people decently, who have abolished youth wages in the collective agreement, have to pay for the subsidy to companies that have made a earning model for working with young people on youth pay? According to the CPB............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is a rather weak report from the Central Planning Bureau, because it says that employment is likely to fall. Probably. I would then like to refer the following matter to the Minister. Suppose the Central Planning Office existed in 1874. Suppose the Central Planning Bureau had to assess the Children's Law of Van Houten, on the ban on child labour in industry. If the Central Planning Bureau had looked at this in the same way as it is now looking at youth wages, we would have had child labour in the Netherlands. I am therefore very interested in the Minister's response to this argument. I have one more question. Apparently, the Council of Europe has been critical of the youth wage system in the Netherlands for 20 years. The European Social Rights Committee calls it "obviously unreasonable." Apparently, unfair dismissal would give you a higher discharge. I am very curious to hear what the committee is saying about the legislative proposal we are discussing. Are you sure that's fair? After 41 years there is progress: young people are on the move, they are successful. But the fundamental injustice is not removed. I have therefore tabled an amendment for an adult wage from 18 years of age. Recently, we have also given names to amendments. I ask the Registrar whether she would like to call this amendment 'Minimum wage 18 years now'. And then "now" if it's possible with some capital letters. And, Mr President, you will understand that Mrs Ulenbelt fully agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	The fact that Mr Ulenbelt would like to go further, and I am guessing Mrs Ulenbelt too, is no surprise to me. However, I find Mr Ulenbelt's contribution so gloomy. If he does not do it himself, I would simply like to congratulate Mr Ulenbelt. After 40 years, a big step is taken. The SP has also made an important contribution to this. I understand Mr Ulenbelt is very upset about the glass being half full. I wish him the joy of a half-full glass today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	In 2008 I already proposed to reduce the minimum youth wage as a first step to 22 and to adjust the standard. That was eight years ago. The Labour Party was against it, GroenLinks was in favour, D66 was in no fields or roads to be seen. So yes, I count my blessings after 40 years. That's right. That's what I said. I congratulated the young people on their struggle. I've been a part of it myself. I'm happy for that. But it's like crossing: if you take the first step you're still far from safe, because then you might as well get under the car. Now, this is the first step and new steps need to be taken quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	I understand that it is very complicated in the culture of the Socialist Party to celebrate steps forward. If this is the cheerful Mr. Ulenbelt, then I hold my heart for the gloomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	There's something else going on. I've seen the footage of Mr Van Weyenberg. He received applause at the events of Young & United. But he got that applause for what he said there: the youth wage is no longer of this time. Besides, those young people thought they'd get rid of half the pay. D66 supports this bill, but it simply says: at 18 years you will also get 50% of the adult wage in two years' time. And that's what young people call half wages. And so am I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	A brief response, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	I was just at the Young & United manifestation, not Mr Ulenbelt. The kids asked us to bust in that law today. I think it would be good if Mr Ulenbelt realised that. But did I just hear him say he won't support the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	This is the best proof that Mr Van Weyenberg has not listened or cannot listen. I didn't say anything about that. We support every step forward. We have always done so, and we will do so now. Mr Van Weyenberg really does not have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	No, Mr Van Weyenberg, this is really enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr Ulenbelt has just accused me of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	... that I support this law to add two sentences later that he does it himself. Well, that's a note, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	No, I don't blame you. This is the second proof that you're not listening. I said what you said at that demonstration. You got applause because you were expecting half that pay to go off at 18 years. And that's not what's gonna happen with this bill. Those are the facts. The bill is also about piecework. About 155,000 people in the Netherlands work on piecework. I'm very interested in the history of the workers' movement. In 1895 we had a big strike in Amsterdam among furniture makers. The companions of the company Haak and Hesseling laid down the work, for they demanded payment of wages per hour instead of piece wages. That strike spread all over Amsterdam: 500 furniture makers on strike. The first requirement was to abolish the piecework. They had all kinds of objections to the piece wages and that is perhaps best summarized in the bond song of the furnituremakers' union of 1895: "The piecework that should be abolished The cancer that weakens the mind who sows discord in our rows and reaps the best of Our power." A very poetic resistance to the piecework. The Council of State notes in this legislative proposal that the remuneration around the statutory minimum wage is actually abolished because, if you get your piece wage below the minimum wage, the hours worked count and so you get the minimum wage. That's exactly what those stabbing furniture makers wanted in 1895. Sometimes it takes 40 years, sometimes it takes a lot longer, but it goes in the right direction. I ask the Minister why he does not impose a total ban on piecework. The social complaints of the furniture makers back then, you hear now. I have tabled an amendment to abolish the piecework in the Netherlands altogether. The following was already in my text, but now Mr Van Weyenberg will of course explain it as a gesture to him. It wasn't supposed to be like that, but that's the way it's supposed to be. This law is a first good step. I told you, if you want to get across the street safely, you don't have to take one step, but you have to take more steps quickly. You're gonna get run over anyway. That will not be the intention of this Minister, and it is certainly not my intention. I am glad that I was allowed to fight against youth wages and that I was allowed to do it again with Young & United. What I particularly like is that I was allowed to do it with Mrs Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	So that battle has produced something beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. A beautiful bill often has many fathers. The same applies to this bill, because many people claim that they have laid the foundations for this bill. Actually, I don't want to talk about the fathers right now. I want to talk about the young people. The President hoped for the mothers, but I am really going to talk about the young people! In fact, I think that the young people themselves ultimately managed to get this bill dealt with here today. I would like to give them a very big compliment for that. It also shows that political engagement can have an effect. Let that also be an appeal to all those people who think that something is happening here and that there is no listening. I think this day is living proof that it could lead to a bill if you show that there are unjust practices. So a compliment to the young people for that too! My group also welcomes the legislative proposal. At the time, we co-signed the Van Weyenberg motion which states that steps must be taken to increase the minimum legal wage. This bill improves the salary of young people under the age of 23. They are also entitled to a wage with which they can build their own lives earlier. I do have some questions about the bill and about the effects it could have. First of all, the two-step reduction. The statutory minimum wage applies only from 22 years and after two years the next step comes to 21 years. It follows from the law. I still have some questions about this two-step construction. In the explanatory statement, the Minister writes that the second step, the legal minimum youth wage from 21 years of age, will take effect if the effects of the first step are not too bad. But it's just in the law! It's just been recorded in there. Why has this reservation been made? Is it perhaps an example of a compromise text? If so, I am very curious as to what the Minister actually wants. Does he also just want the statutory minimum wage to apply from the age of 21? If so, why choose this two-step construction? I also think that the argument of the employment effects is a rather special one. We know that the employment effects are stronger in lower age groups and not in a reduction from 22 to 21. In addition, the second step follows after two years. Then you have to keep a close eye on the effects it's already had. Why does the Minister intend to have a better view of the employment effects with these steps and why does he not simply choose to apply the statutory minimum wage at 21 years in one go? As far as I am concerned, he does so with a proper assessment clause in the law, because then we can always talk about it again. Can the Minister clarify this a little? Does he also think it should go to 21 years? Period! The Minister also takes measures to reduce employment effects. He wants to use the low-income advantage and a compensation scheme for employers. I have a bit of the same question as Mr Ulenbelt. There are employers who have incorporated it all nicely into their collective agreement. Do they have to pay later, because there are employers who have not made any arrangements and are compensated for them? That would really be the lid on the nose of the good employers. What exactly does the Minister expect to impact on employment development? What figures does he have showing that this compensation is necessary to prevent young people from losing their jobs if the statutory minimum wage is to start at 21 years? The compensation scheme seems rather complex to me. How does the Minister see this? An exception is made to the increase in the legal minimum youth wage for the apprenticeships. At the same time, a reasonable number of collective agreements have been reached on this subject, which means that the young people covered deserve more than the statutory minimum youth wage. On the one hand, it is regulated and on the other hand, this will lead to fewer learning places being offered. It's one of two: either it can or it can't. It's a little unclear now. Does the Minister have any concrete indications that fewer jobs will be offered at the time when we begin the statutory minimum wage earlier? I haven't been able to find that support, but if the Minister can give it to us, it might help to convince us, too. This applies all the more to those in a sphere of education. If you go to school more than work, you can get a job for which you will get the legal minimum wage. If it's a learning process, so if you work more, you don't get the legal minimum wage, when you don't have time for a side job, because you've been working all week. I think there's an inequality in that. I hope the Minister will be able to shed some light on this. In order to prevent a worker from being unable to earn an income for his primary necessities in the case of piecework payment, piecework payment shall be deemed to be working time. That should prevent displacement. I can imagine. According to the explanatory memorandum, enforcement of this provision by the Inspection SZW is again very difficult. It then determines the actual time spent by the employee in carrying out the work performed. The government assumes that the employer always has an insight into the duration of the work carried out. With the Council of State, I doubt that. Sometimes there's no sign of it. Quite a few young people work remotely. For example, when someone walks leaflets, it should not be the fact that he walks fast or slowly that determines the salary. How should an employer monitor this? I have seen that VVD and CDA have tabled an amendment on this point. I haven't had a lot of time to study it properly, but I get the impression that this can offer some relief. We are extremely opposed to repression, but we must also ensure that such a thing as leaflets does not become a major problem for enforcement, which means that an employer can no longer properly estimate what to pay someone. I am going to look at the amendment, but I would also like a response from the Minister. The statutory minimum wage will also apply to additional work, and we support that. In doing so, as in practice has already been customary, it has been made possible that extra work is not paid in cash but in leisure time. However, the law now provides that only this possibility can be used in so far as it is included in a collective agreement. I get that, driven from the protection of employees. Sometimes, however, an employee wants to be paid himself in free days. Can we do that if there is no collective agreement? Is there therefore freedom of choice for workers to be paid either in cash or in leisure time? It seems strange to me if this is possible if there is a collective agreement, but not if nothing is arranged for it. I want to leave the employee the choice in this. Is that gonna be possible soon? I await the Minister's response with interest. I welcome the fact that Mr Ulenbelt's love story has been included in the Acts by dealing with this bill. These are the last few months when he is still a member of the Chamber, and that seems to me to be a nice conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ulenbelt and I have more in common than you think, besides perhaps a great love. For both of us, this is one of our last debates on this stage, in this beautiful house of democracy. That may sound a little heavy, but I am also trying to compliment Mr Ulenbelt, because today we have a debate of great value. This is why you actually do it in politics. In this debate, you will achieve something with each other, with different parties inside and outside this house, which will allow you to explain in a year, a week and in ten years' time why it is valuable that there is politics and that we can take steps. You can also explain how concrete these steps are, because next year a very large group of young people will earn more money. These young people often also have their own rent and their own costs. As we all know, there is no such thing as youth rent, but these young people do receive a youth wage. That's going up now. I like that. We're under relatively little media attention here, I noticed. Mr Ulenbelt did have a lot of media coverage yesterday, but this is a very nice subject to report on. There's no fighting or fuss. However, we have not discussed this issue since 1974. And it's very fundamental! I have read through the 1968 Acts on the creation of the minimum wage, just like the 1974 ones on the creation of youth wages. In 1968, a member at the time referred to discussions on a guaranteed annual income for all. I would remind you that this year we even had another debate on basic income. They also referred to writers such as Myrdal, Friedman, Fromm and Theobald and to general wage policy. The discussions in 1974, I say to Mrs Schouten, were about the age limit of 23 years. The Minister was asked if he was prepared to look into this subject, provided that there was sufficient cause in the collective agreements. The Labour Foundation wanted to do such a study, but was waiting for a request from the Minister, while the Minister was waiting again to see if the collective agreements gave sufficient cause for this. In short, it is nice to read that these debates still have topical value. The discussions are no longer exactly the same, but they have the same characteristics. The subject was also discussed on the basis of the heart and moral views. I know that Mr Van Weyenberg is attached to some uncomfortable statements by Joop den Uyl. I found in the beautiful biography of Anet Bleich a statement by Den Uyl that I do not want to deny Mr Van Weyenberg. The Social Democrats were not always in favour of lowering the age limit; Mr Ulenbelt is right. Den Uyl said to Wim Duisenberg in an unguarded moment: "If you give those guys more money, the only thing they're going to do is buy more stereo towers." I wanted to give that quote to Mr Van Weyenberg. I do not agree at all with this; you understand that. A prominent CDA, the rather dear Jan de Koning, even wanted to step back in the 1980s as Minister of Social Affairs. Employees should not receive the legal minimum wage for adults at 23 years, but only at 27 years. Fortunately, that didn't happen, bearing in mind his own motto: "If things don't work out as they should, then so be it." Here's to it. I agree with my predecessors and would like to congratulate them: not us, but the young people who organized and initiated this action. They also caught us by surprise with their own stories. Those kids were Soufian, Anneloes and Ali. Thank you! Thank you, too, for coming back today. But economists also stirred, not just on the left. The respected VVD economist Frenchman said: if low wages would bring more prosperity, Bangladesh would be a paradise, but it is not. Mr Wilthagen said: 'They get a youth wage, but there are no youth messages in the supermarket and there is no such thing as a youth rental'. So we are very much in favour of this bill. And yes, before people interrupt me: in our election programme we are going one step further. Nevertheless, we are extremely satisfied with the step we can take here. From this point on, I say that we hope for rapid treatment in the Upper House. Indeed, it is also relevant to look at the effects, although I think they will be very difficult, given the international comparisons. Anyway, I'm saying this based on the pieces that are now there. The recent adjustments in Germany have led to no effect. And we will continue the fight after 15 March. That's for sure. There are two other pieces I would like to consider. The first part is about paying minimum wage for extra work. We have suddenly noticed that we have never laid a legal basis for this, and in that respect it is incredibly relevant that we do at the moment. The second part concerns the payment of minimum wage for piecework. The number of workers working on piecework in the Netherlands is estimated at about 155.000. The minimum wage Act contains a standard for the case in which the employer rewards the employee depending on the results of the work performed. Mrs Schouten also said that working time was defined as "the time reasonably taken to carry out the work carried out." We are in favour of everyone getting a decent reward for their work, and we are therefore pleased that piece-of-wage payments will be subject to full minimum wage. There is one point I have not really mentioned by the previous speakers. It is a bit of a separate sector, on which we have received letters, namely the host parents' offices. Actually, I have to tell the host parents, it's not about the desks, it's about the host parents. Usually host parents receive children from other parents in their own home and they usually do so on the basis of an ovo. Part of this group is now outside the WML. They have to deal with both the WML-ovo bill pending in the First Chamber and this bill. The big problem will arise when a host parent takes care of one or sometimes two children, because suddenly he has to make a huge blow and it is going to be much more expensive. Since this sector has a very special situation, namely receiving children at home, I ask the Minister if he sees any possibility of finding a solution for the host parents within this system. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'm giving the floor to... Oh, Mrs. Schouten has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	Yes, at least I would like to mention that it is one of Mrs Vermeij's last debates. But I also have a question about the two-step system that I have also put in my contribution. The explanatory statement says that we go first to 22 and then to 21 if the effects are not too bad. In any case, that is a bit weird in legal terms, because it is now regulated by the law. But does Mrs Vermeij also agree with me that we should be going to 21? Does she agree with me that this should not be made dependent on anything? There should no longer be any ambiguity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	Legally, it goes to 21. So there is no ambiguity about that. If major disasters were to occur, I would not expect that, and that would not give any research to.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But legally, we do it in two steps, provided the effects are such that we do not consider the second step reasonable. And then it doesn't apply to one person having to think that, but that a lot of people and we all here have to think that. The law says very clearly: we go down in two steps, to 21. I think there can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	But we usually make laws here with an evaluation clause. We say that this must show whether these major disasters occur and whether we need to adapt something. A kind of conditional legislative change, which is now being introduced, cannot provide the clarity that we want to offer these young people today. I just want to hear from Mrs Vermeij that it will apply from 21 years on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	I think that's what the law says, and I can vouch for it. It's going to apply from 21 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. The Party for Freedom is a party for the common man, for ordinary people who want to work, for real jobs, a party that wants to encourage people to do their best to fight for a dignified existence. That is why we see this proposal as a small light at the end of the tunnel in Asscher, where the Netherlands has unfortunately been driving through it for four years. I'm saying it a little crazy this time to the Minister, but we know from each other that we sometimes tease each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	First it was four more years, now it's a compliment. I do not know where this ends with Mr De Graaf!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	Last week, I transferred those four more years to Mr Heerma, who had said on the radio: the Minister gets a six. Then you'll pass. I warned Mr Heerma about that. That is quite different from what I would have said "four more years." Absolutely not. Then this has also been corrected forever in the Acts!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	It is important to realise that young people do not necessarily have to work, but the reality is that they do so at the minimum wage. The minimum wage is a lower limit to protect people from the men's mentality, the shipowners mentality that I know from my own family, not on the side of the shipowner but on the side of the employee. The mentality that used to prevail and which we now often find in particular with the large business, which is part of the globalist elite. Many people are afraid of the developments that are taking place in there and also of the consequences of their actions. The minimum wage is a protection against that elite, which people often only see as an economic thing or a disposable napkin. Of course, we can never agree with that. That protection has nothing to do with left, middle or right, but it has to do with civilisation. The challenge is of course to overcome the minimum wage, by special talents or qualities, by commitment, by challenge, by competition and by perseverance. Also challenging, dealing with it and developing yourself, is of course a form of civilisation. The proposal before us is a step-by-step proposal. It is a proposal that brings competition to young people who deserve the minimum youth wage. The Chamber adopted Mr Van Weyenberg's motion to bring minimum wages more into balance, i.e. minimum wage and minimum youth wage. The government is implementing this proposal. I've got a few questions for the Minister. To what extent does the Minister expect the employment effects to be such that stairs two should not be implemented in a while? Of course, it would be a waste of law if it could not go through. It is also true, of course, that the economic situation seems to attract a little bit. But that also has to do with the international definition of unemployment that currently applies. At one o'clock you already have a job and are no longer listed as unemployed. It used to be 12 hours. If you worked 12 hours a week, you'd have a job. Nowadays, it's at one o'clock. We need to keep that in mind. As a result, unemployment statistics appear to be a little more flourishing than they actually are. That must remain clear for everyone, because that image is more positive than at the kitchen table of the Netherlands. So the question is whether an artificial cyclical picture has been created in which this bill could work out more favourably. This will, of course, allow young people to be tied to the decaying Labour Party in election time. Of course, that should not be the intention of the bill. An adjustment from 23 to 22 and later to 21, in consultation even with employers and employees, look at this: De Graaf once positive about the polder, including a compensation scheme, you can hardly be critical of that. Yeah, it's kind of nice to surprise people once in a while at the end of such a period. In this age group there are plenty of people who live on their own, who are the winners or sometimes even care for a young family. 22-year-olds and 21-year-olds shouldn't be thrown off with the minimum youth wage. However, we are slightly critical of the steps that may follow, because the effects are most important. What are the employment and unemployment effects of this proposal if you continued after that? That is why on the one hand I welcome the proposal, but on the other hand I am slightly critical of Mr Ulenbelt, who says: straight to 18. The next point is for example the Flexwet, which went through the Second and First Chambers with steam and boiling water and many major changes. And that is where we still have the fried pears, and we are still stuck with them for the time being if things are a bit disappointing. If you were to go on to 18 in one go, our fear is that there may be too much change in the economy and that the situation will be out of balance. I'd like to get a response from the Minister to that idea. The second step must indeed be a well-considered step. I see that I am almost through my time, but also because of my text, which saves me, but I also see Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	If you lock up behind the dikes a little bit and don't look abroad, I understand this. But Mr De Graaf also knows, or else I will tell him now that the minimum wage applies in Austria, Denmark and Germany from the age of 18. That's no problem at all. If you talk a lot about equal rights, what's equal pay for equal work, whether you're 18, 19, 20 or 21? That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	This is logical, and the outcome will ultimately be the same, but my group believes that you should not do so at once, because then you will bring about a very big change in the economy, which could also cause the same young people to suffer. That's why we like the idea of kicking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	Why do you let fear rule you? Our neighbors, Germany, did it on 1 January 2015. 4 million people benefited from this. It had no effect on employment. I think Mr De Graaf is a bit scared because he is not now defending equal rights. The PVV lets young people aged 18 work for half a wage. Yeah, it's possible, but it's not neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	These are Mr Ulenbelt's qualifications. I get it from his side. He fought for it for years. So now we're going along with it. We also think that this is a very good step and Mr Ulenbelt is not happy again! I don't understand. Mr Van Weyenberg also said: Jantje is laughing, Jantje is crying; I do not know which way to look when I hear Mr Ulenbelt talking. Germany is a different economy, although it is partly similar to the Dutch economy. We have dealt with a different cabinet than the people in Germany. There are different circumstances. That is why we believe that this is a good point. Eventually, after Mr Ulenbelt's years of struggle, perhaps we will reach the same point. That'd be great. Well, that's scary, isn't it? Fine. Mr Ulenbelt thinks so. I don't think so. I was almost at the end. Mrs Schouten had already mentioned evaluation. The effects on employment rates by drawing the international definition of unemployment from 12 hours to 1 hour per week must be filtered out if the next step is to be taken and a possible next step is to be discussed. Can the Minister promise that he will ensure that his successor takes this up in an evaluation from the Ministry in this way? In the confidence that the two years between the two steps provide sufficient certainty to ensure that these adjustments are stable, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this is a very happy and beautiful day, starting with the young people of Young & United, who, after a beautiful, optimistic and innovative campaign, managed to put something on the agenda in a year, which also brings about real change, after decades of debate. That's good. That is good for them and for all young people who are now going to earn more when they work at 22, have to pay rent and do groceries. They are just as productive and perform just as well but now get less pay. But I also think it is a good signal, as Mrs Schouten quite rightly said, to everyone, in the sense that it makes sense to use yourself, whether in politics, in the trade union movement, in an entrepreneurial club or at your school or university. Joining in and letting you know have some effect. I like that. I also think it's a nice day because it shows that working together in the Chamber pays off. A majority in parliament has clearly said to the cabinet: we want this and if you do not come out ourselves, we will come up with an initiative law. This shows that cooperation can lead to beautiful solutions. I hope that the House's motion, supported by a majority in the Chamber, has also put some extra pressure on the kettle. I also think it is a good day because coalition parties, including in the polder, can overcome differences in exchange, which, as far as I am concerned, made everyone better. For those who had forgotten: besides the increase in youth wages, the problem of seasonal work was also solved. As far as I am concerned, these are both extremely sensible and good measures. It is a good thing that the Minister has arranged this and has directed it in the polder. It is, of course, an extra fine day because, after hearing about her for years, we are allowed to see Mrs Wijker, although I still call her Mrs Ulenbelt, because Mr Ulenbelt always calls her that. I have to give her one bad news, because there is one member of the Ulenbelt household who is mentioned more often, namely Mr Ulenbelt's cleaning robot. Before I gave Mrs Vermeij the idea of taxing this technology in the spirit of Joop den Uyl, I thank her for the fun Joop den Uyl quote. A major and important step is being taken today, but in the Chamber's vote we were asked to do so wisely. This is also a first step as far as D66 is concerned, as I say to Mrs Voortman, although unfortunately she is not here right now, because we believe that your benefits and not your age or seniority should ultimately be decisive for your wages. In that light, I would ask the Minister once again for his attention to the wage curve. As far as I am concerned, performance is still too little at the centre of this as opposed to age and seniority. Does the Minister agree with me? And yes, I am aware that politics is not about the wage curve, but I continue to find that a problem, also because you can still employ three 30-year-olds for the wages of two 55-year-olds. I still firmly believe that many older jobseekers do not help in their often very difficult search for work after they have lost their jobs. This proposal is wisely phased in two steps. As far as I'm concerned, it's clip-and-ready: age goes to 22 and then to 21. That's what the law says. I also noticed the sentence quoted by Mrs Schouten from the explanatory statement. I think that sentence is incorrect. How I read the explanatory statement and what it should have been like as far as I'm concerned is: the age at which you get the minimum wage goes first to 22 and two years later to 21. If there were any unexpected major problems, the cabinet would have to come up with a bill to avoid doing so. That's how I interpreted it. I'm asking the Minister to confirm that here. This is a first step and you can celebrate it. By the way, I saw that the young people of Young & United did the same. With a number of colleagues I even got a nice sash from it once. I do not get it every day and if it is given during a 1 May celebration, you will understand that I had a very special day in the Oosterpark. But all madness: we must, of course, be extremely careful, because the effect on the labour market position and on the education of young people is something that we must carefully monitor. That's what the bill says. In that light, I do have a question about the bl'ers. Mrs Schouten mentioned that as well. The increase in wages for your 18th, 19th and 20th does not apply to people who follow a bl. For them, the wage increase applies to 21- and 22-year-olds. For employers, the low income advantage is to ensure that wage costs do not increase by just over a third of the difference. Two thirds are compensated by employers by the low income advantage. Can the Minister look very explicitly at the effect on the places in the monitoring, including for 21- and 22-year-olds? I support the choice made, which is pragmatic. I do not have a better alternative, but this is one of the points my group was concerned about when this bill was drawn up. I ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this. As far as my group is concerned, age is now going from 22 to 21, and if what I expect is going to happen, namely that it is not so bad, then a next step can be taken. Mr Ulenbelt wanted to cross the road at once, because he thought that was safe, but then I would like to give him another comparison. If you cross a fast flowing river, it is wise to jump from rock to rock and not walk through it in one go. 'Cause you can't make chunks. It must not be the case that the unemployment rate among young people, which is fortunately lower in the Netherlands than in a whole number of other countries but which is still far too high here, is rising or that young people may go to school less. Mr Ulenbelt and I should not think about that. That's why I think this is wise. I have two questions about other parts of the bill. The first question concerns piecework and the introduction of the law. There are companies that want to do this nicely. I am thinking in particular of DHL. This company is a little concerned about the timetable. The law has yet to be passed by the Senate and will enter into force on 1 July. This requires adjustments from them; they work consciously with a piecework and with people employed, and therefore not withzzp'ers. What is the Minister's view of implementation? In my view, there is absolutely good will, but there is some concern about that timetable and how to implement it. Is the Minister aware of this point? Is the Ministry having any discussions about this? And how does the Minister see that? I am not saying this in order to change the date of introduction of the law, but to ensure that parties who are going to comply with the law naturally have sufficient time to do so. Because, yes, some work processes need to be adapted. My second point is the host parents. It seems to me an unintentional effect if this bill fails this group. We are explicating a standard that is in practice unworkable for enforcement. Of course, you weren't allowed to earn below the minimum wage, but that didn't work for inspection in enforcement anyway. There is now an improved system in place. But what if that means that host parents get in big trouble? That is not at all intended. Nor is it a sector where there is a problem. I have the impression that this law is aimed at a specific number of sectors. Is there anything you can do about it? A question precedes that. Is the care of the host family business justified? Or doesn't that concern even apply? Should that concern have any cause for concern, Mrs Vermeij asked for it, too, could it not be considered how we solve it? I think that is an unintentional effect. I'm asking the Minister to fix that. I also wanted to ask questions about the leaflet and newspaper delivery staff, but I have seen the amendment tabled by colleagues Van 't Wout and Heerma. I understand it's legal complex, but I agree with the search. So I have a positive feeling about this and I look forward to the Minister's response. When it comes to hotel cleaning, I have already drawn attention to this with Mr Heerma and Mrs Vermeij, and I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Mrs Voortman. All in all, I think this is a beautiful day. A beautiful day for the involvement of young people. I also think it is a beautiful day because it shows that in politics you can achieve things by working together and compromise. May I also take this opportunity to say a word of thanks to Mrs Vermeij? This is her last debate. I've always worked with her with extraordinary pleasure. We have made agreements with each other, but perhaps I liked the debate as much as we disagreed. At least I enjoyed both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	There is something about Mr Van Weyenberg's hearing capacity today. I don't have a cleaning robot. I have a vacuum cleaner robot. That's a whole other thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	You're absolutely right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	And I'm still very happy about it. Mr Van Weyenberg uses the metaphor of crossing the river from stone to stone. We're doing step one now, but when are we going to be across the river when it comes to the minimum wage at 18 years? When's the half-wage with 18 years gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	I think we're laying more than one rock; we're laying two. So we're halfway across the river. We're going to 22 and 21 years. The law is clear about that. That's making a lot of sense. We really do something about the bars between 18 and 20 years old. Those kids are just gonna make more money. Let us not give the impression that nothing changes there. I know that Mr Ulenbelt does not want that either. Then we'll check it out. If it turns out that it does not have very bad effects, then we can take another step, the same starting point as in the previous Chamber motion. I still want to know that it has no counterproductive effect on education. I know that the same applies to Mr Ulenbelt. If it turns out that it's almost problem-free to go to 21, then the time comes for the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	The chairman of the D66 group always talks about a dot on the horizon. I wonder where the dot lies for Mr Van Weyenberg when crossing his river. Is it a little close? Is it on the horizon? If there are no effects, which I suspect, and if employment attracts, it is a wonderful time to raise wages. The Dutch Bank says the same thing. Is D66 prepared to seriously face the 18 years in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yes. I have already said that this is a first step for me. I think that, in the end, the performance should apply. I will weigh this up if it turns out that this can be done without problems and we can do this later in a way that does not have an adverse effect on educational participation. Mr Ulenbelt is not concerned about that, but I am. The Minister too, because that is why he does not want to change the stalls between 15 and 18 at the moment. The starting point is clear: I think you should just earn the wage that goes with the performance. I hope, moreover, that I will find Mr Ulenbelt on my side more broadly in the wage building and not just among young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. We have spoken on this subject several times over the past few years as a Chamber. In my opinion, three subjects have always returned to these debates. The first was Mrs Ulenbelt, whom I would also refer to as Mrs Ulenbelt. The second topic was the consistent actions that Young & United managed to enter into around these debates. The third was the fact that the proposal that lies here now knows many spiritual fathers and mothers; Mrs Schouten also said it. With regard to Mrs Ulenbelt, after Mr Ulenbelt's story, perhaps we should note that patience is a good thing. With regard to Young & United, we can conclude that they have shown a lot of professional lobbying agencies how to effectively lobby. Several compliments have already been given for this. With regard to all the spiritual fathers and mothers of this bill, after Mr Ulenbelt's contribution, we must note that Mrs Ulenbelt, with her patience, must be seen as the spiritual mother of this bill. Internationally, the Netherlands is an exception to the fact that an adult minimum wage does not apply until 23 years of age. In view of the changes in the socio-economic and social position of young people, the government proposes to gradually reduce the age of the adult minimum wage to 21 years. The CDA also sees these changes, but has always been reluctant to reduce the age, because there is also a risk that you will give young people a higher wage for a job that they will then get less easily. Contrary to what Mr Voortman said in her first term, empirical research shows that a higher minimum wage can have a negative impact on young people's employment. It's not so much as a "one-on-one" thing, and that's what the Cabinet also writes very clearly, that you can translate that one-on-one into differences between countries, because the differences between countries are even greater than the way in which the minimum youth wage is handled, but there is a relationship. The CPB notes that there is also a relationship with the incentive for young people to complete or not complete their training. I therefore tend first to think that what has been agreed around the bbl-course is wise. However, I also see that Mr Schouten has asked questions about this because she has doubts about it. I look forward to the Minister's answers to that. I am also curious how it will be viewed in the two years between the first and second steps and how to keep a finger on the wrist. We all know that we have had a debate on whether there are enough bbl-spots for young people. So I'd like to get an explanation about that. I think the cabinet's proposal is sensible. It's wise not to go further, not to 18 years. It is also sensible to do it step by step, because we have always been afraid that too large, rigorous and substantial a step might be taken, because I believe that the motion for a resolution could be accompanied by job losses for young people. My question is how the cabinet that wants to monitor precisely between that first and second step in the coming years and how it is going to keep its finger on the pulse. And what does that line mean? How's that trade-off going? Like most colleagues, I have a number of questions about the piecework. Let me start by saying that I can see the problem. We talked about the hotel cleaning and the abuses in it. It is a good thing that something is happening to put an end to that. However, in a more general sense, I have the question of the enforcement task. Does this really make it easier? Can the Minister explain how that works? How is it going to be easy to maintain that? Is the inspection also involved and has the inspection given advice on whether this enforcement task will be simplified? I agree with the questions put by several colleagues before me, in any case with those of Mrs Vermeij and Mr Van Weyenberg on the host care. Shouldn't something be arranged for that, or in this law, or in the bill surrounding the ovo's in front of the Upper Chamber? I would also like to join the questions that have been asked about DHL. We have talked extensively here about the problems of parcel delivery, but I do not think that the companies that employed people represented the bottom of the market. How can we prevent more companies from working with zzp structures instead of hiring people? After all, that is not the right move. I shall conclude with one final point. I co-signed an amendment by Mr Van 't Wout to deal with the newspaper delivery. We have also discussed this very extensively in the legislative proposal on the ovo's. We really must avoid creating a new problem by solving a problem. I would like the Minister to respond to this amendment and to hear whether this can be a solution in the newspaper delivery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	I am extremely pleased that Mr Heerma is now also in the camp to take a step. I thought he was good at his own struggle with that. I am glad that he also concludes that this is a sensible step. My question is about the host parents. If it turns out that there is indeed a problem for me, that is the question, perhaps not, and I hope, of course, that Mr Heerma does not agree with me that it should now, with this law, be amended by the cabinet with a small letter of amendment? He referred to the law surrounding the ovo's in front of the Senate in the First Chamber, but that seems complicated to me. Honestly, I'd like to solve something that comes out of this law, even in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	I left it open because I tend to think there's a problem. I would like to say to Mr Van Weyenberg: first let us wait and see the Minister's answers and see if there is a problem. I see ways to solve it both ways. I don't want to make any tough demands. Whether there is a problem, it can be left or right: I am satisfied in both cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. With this amendment to the minimum wage law, we are trying to reduce injustice for young people. Today we heard that unemployment in our country has been below 500,000 people for the first time since 2012. This minister was proud of that. He even called it a milestone and he said it offers hope. Today, however, it also emerged that one in four young people with a migrant background is unemployed, while one in ten young people with a non-migrant background are unemployed. So, unfortunately, migrant young people are two and a half times more unemployed than young people with a non-migrant background. Does the Minister think that this is a milestone? Do these figures offer hope? Over the past few years, this minister has received EUR 600 million for his sector plans. But young people with a migrant background are still far from getting a job. They're still too much at home. We must fight injustice in all areas. Today we are talking about the salaries of young people. The position of DENK is clear: adults who work must receive an adult wage as much as possible. Our young people are not cheap labour, our young people are our future and you need to invest in that future. That is not happening at the moment. Too many young adults in our country are now working for a hunger wage, for a low salary that they can barely make ends meet. They are used by employers to keep the costs of their business low; they are cutting back on our young people. A 18-year-old person is more than half cheaper than a 24-year-old person, while he often does exactly the same work and is often equally productive. Too many employers in our country use a "road culture" because of this injustice. If they need help in their business, they quickly hire a cheap youngster. But if this kid's gonna make a little more money, he's gonna get kicked out and kicked out. For this youngster, there is no future in the company. Then just the next cheap kid gets hired. We think this has to stop. We haven't looked back on our young people's salaries for too long. Our young people must be treated more fairly. DENK wants an adult wage for adult employees. Our young people must be paid to work. We therefore want young people to receive 100% of the statutory minimum wage immediately at the age of 21. DENK wants 18-year-olds to receive at least 70% of the statutory minimum wage instead of the proposed 50%. The Netherlands is now one of the worst boys in the class in Europe. Almost nowhere in Europe is the minimum youth wage so low compared to the statutory minimum wage here. The Netherlands is running out of pace internationally. Young people aged 18 receive 45% of the statutory minimum wage in the Netherlands. The Minister wants to adjust this to 50%, but in the rest of Europe they usually receive more than 70%. In Germany and Belgium, they even get 100%. A few kilometers across the border saves hundreds of euros. For example, a young person aged 18 in Belgium will receive €800 more, a young person aged 19 in France €700, a young person aged 20 in Germany almost €500, and a young person aged 21 in Ireland will now receive €400 more. That's a great injustice, isn't it? The Council of Europe has not stopped us for nothing. He calls it unmistakably unfair and unfair. Young people are less easy to live on than before, according to the statistics of the CBS. At the beginning of this century 45% of young people were able to live well, now it is only 25%. Young people are therefore more often financially dependent on others. 15% of MBO students feel they have a financial problem. 37% of MBOs over 18 are in debt. That's why it's time for action. That is why it is time to do something for our young people. Legislation on minimum youth wage has not been amended since 1983. The law didn't go with the time. You cannot compare the young people of the 1980s with the young people of today. Young people are more independent, young people have different needs and more is expected of young people. The Minister's proposal therefore raises an important problem. We believe, however, that the proposal does not go far enough and that it is slow. Young people aged 18 will initially receive only 2%, while their peers across the border still earn many more euros. The subsequent increase of 2.5% depends on the results of a study. That's gonna ring a bell for us. Since the Motivation investigation, we know what research at this minister means: to steer on the desired results. I understand the struggle between the VVD and the PvdA. I understand that this law is the result of negotiation. I understand that the PvdA hasn't been able to make the best of it. I would therefore like to say to the VVD: all those entrepreneurs you claim to stand up for are also fathers and mothers. These fathers and mothers want their children to be treated justly. These fathers and mothers think of more than just their profits. These fathers and mothers want to invest in the future. The Minister's proposal is not going fast enough. Too much injustice remains, there remains an international imbalance, there remains a culture of young people's driving away. We therefore call on the Minister to make this bill much more robust. We have tabled an amendment to give it more teeth. Minister, dare to look at our young people, dare to be just!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg already referred to it. Last week, I myself took a very close look at the budget debate. We agreed on a package in the coalition and with the social partners in April. In it we do some seasonal work. In doing so, we are going to do something about the transition fee. And this bill is also the result of the package. Certainly around this package I have worked intensively with Mrs Vermeij. She said just now that this is her last debate. I hope she'll just be in the Chamber until 15 March. I would like to sincerely thank her for the good and pleasant cooperation. I think we should be proud that, despite all our differences, we have managed to achieve things. If you assess the overall package and the bill on their merits, there is a explanatory package. The bill provides an answer to the question you always have to ask yourself. Everyone gets a higher wage for young people, but they have to have a job for that. That is why it is good to be careful and not to take too rigorous steps. You need to look at how to mitigate any effects on employment. That is what we are doing with the low-income advantage, which is being increased, and with the 100 million that comes on top of it to relieve employers. We are satisfied with this and we feel strengthened in it because employers and unions are involved and say: this is a good point. The bill is not only about the minimum youth wage, but it also regulates a number of issues relating to piecework and extra work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	I have a question about being careful because of the effects. It's been almost 33 years since the law has been amended. This is the time to tackle this injustice against young people. With 2% and 2.5% added, a lot of young people are happy, I understand that, but this is the time to tackle this great injustice. Doesn't Mr. Van 't Wout think he's missing a big moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	No, because I mentioned the issue of higher wages and employment. I give a higher wage to every young person, but I give them a job in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	We see that young people in Belgium and Germany earn very well. With the fear that employment may cost, a sense of fear is created, so that young people can be deprived of the money. How can Mr Van 't Wout assume that in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	We're taking a step here. In doing so, we are taking measures to mitigate the effects. Halfway, we're going to see how it works out in practice. Of course, we don't do that for nothing. Mr Öztürk can pretend that wage increases have no effect anywhere, but there is that effect. Look at all the studies that have been done. I think we have found a balanced answer to this issue. There will always be a trade-out more or less. Let us look halfway at how this step has worked out. Mr. Chairman. As I said, besides the minimum wage, there are also a number of other issues here, the piecework and the extra work. This is actually about the principle that you can earn the minimum wage that we have agreed with each other if you just work and if we can check that that actually happens. That supports the VVD. That principle supports the VVD, but we are very alert, because: principles are beautiful, but just as important is how they work out in practice. These measures affect very different types of companies and very different sectors and we want to make sure that everything is going well. My main concern is that Mr Heerma and others have already referred to it as part of the daily and leaflet delivery. People there do their work very independently and actually out of sight of the employer. Sometimes they're okay with doing eight hours on delivering a paper route. No one has a problem with that right now, but this bill would make that incredibly complicated. I just don't think that's the point. That is why we have tabled an amendment. Mr Van Weyenberg said about the amendment that it is not the shortest and simplest amendment. I admit that it is, but it is quite complex matter. Moreover, in such an amendment, you try to do justice to the idea behind the bill and to build in some sort of security around the piecework without making it impossible for people to deliver their leaflets at their own pace. Another care also pronounced before is what DHL has indicated. DHL says: fine, we want to do this, but make no mistake about the effects it all has. These are all kinds of practical matters, which I cannot immediately see. An example is the computer systems that need to be adapted. I ask the Minister to involve the companies affected by the bill in a really good way in the further roll-out and implementation. That also applies to the inspection, because then it is clear to everyone what the inspection is going to look at after 1 July. I would ask the Minister to let us know in the spring how the preparatory process is going. I ask that in order to prevent a small part of the software from operating on 1 August and that therefore a company that is of good will gets into trouble at once. Mr President, I'm accelerating something. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add my voice to the questions that have been asked about the host parents. In my opinion, the problem lies in the fact that in the House of Representatives it has been said that piecework is precisely the solution not to get into trouble with the contract of assignment. Things are threatening to cross over now, and that problem just needs to be solved, because I'm not married to the way we solve it in the bill. I cannot imagine that it is someone's intention to make that kind of childcare complicated or impossible at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	Before I suspend, I would like to ask Mr Öztürk about his amendment. Mr Öztürk, you would table that amendment, but will it indeed be distributed later? I can see you nodding yes, so you still owe us that amendment. I suggest we suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr. Chairman. The American astronaut Scott Kelly once said that the trip to Mars consists of a large number of baby steps, a large number of which have already been taken. The first step was probably the launch of Yuri Gagarin, who was first shot into space in 1961. It is quite translated, of course, that the journey to the future has been going on for a long time, but you often don't notice it and you don't see it until you look back, when you look back at the past. For example, look at the parliamentary history of the minimum wage law. The law dates back to the 1960s, the time of Gagarin. Look how they talked about it back then. As far as I am concerned, a jewel from history is the verdict of then MP Van Rossum of the SGP. He was particularly concerned about the level of the minimum wage: "We want to continue to assume that the worker is worthy of his food, but that the servant should not exceed his lord." 50 years later we live in a different time, in which perhaps we talk about "eat" rather than "food" and in which the Van Dale rightly describes the word "servant" as archaic. It's also a time when we've started to think very differently about pay. At the time, in 1968, the statutory minimum wage was already a huge step towards a fairer future. "It can be said with gratitude that nowhere in the world there is such a decent minimum wage scheme as in our small country," said my predecessor, Minister Roolvink, at the time. He also spoke of "the great significance of this law for hundreds of thousands of people who, through this legal provision, received formidable support in their weak backs." Those are fine words, but also words you have to put in the spirit of the time. With our collective moving insight we are now quite a few steps further. In the meantime, we believe that all adults deserve a full reward, regardless of their age, whether you are paid on the basis of hours worked or delivered products. More work should simply be paid out. Lack of rules has been in the way of this progressive insight for a long time. The minimum youth wage dates back to 1974, 42 years ago, and has not been adjusted since 1983, 33 years ago. I am glad that we are finally taking a new step in this cabinet period. That is a big step and a much needed step, because for a society of the future you should not cling to the achievements and wisdoms of that time, but build on them. With this bill, we are not only taking a next step towards a future-proof minimum wage, but also a step towards a fairer future, not only for employees but also for well-intentioned employers. On 21 April, we reached an agreement with the coalition parties and the social partners on this review, as well as on other bottlenecks in the labour market. I am pleased to see that the same year, albeit in the last few weeks, the law increasing and abolishing the minimum youth wage for 21- and 22-year-olds, with the Chamber. Young & United's activists deserve all the credit for that. For this, the Ulenbelt family deserves all the praise; I do not distinguish between robot, man or woman. For that all spiritual fathers and mothers in the Chamber deserve all praise, appreciation and compliments. I thank the Members of Parliament for the first-term questions and for the compliments and support for the legislative proposal. I think it's a good thing we're reminiscing the immediate trigger. One of the most challenging developments in our labour market was that of the effects of the free movement of persons within the European Union, particularly those from Central and Eastern Europe. Because of the lower wages in those countries, the then government provided that any wage in the Netherlands, even in the case of payment below the statutory minimum youth wage, could be higher than in the country of origin. That's right. This led to the expectation that these workers would be at high risk of underpayment. But because they still deserve more than in the country where they come from, they would be less inclined, as the situation was, to get their own justice through civil proceedings. This would jeopardise the aims of the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act and put pressure on the level playing field between employers by giving underpaying employers an unfair competitive advantage over well-intentioned employers. Therefore, since 2007 it has been chosen to proceed with the administrative enforcement of the WML. At the time, the Chamber adopted this proposal unanimously. In recent years, we have gained experience of administrative enforcement. We have encountered a number of bottlenecks. It has proved difficult to maintain the minimum wage effectively in both overworking and piecework situations. The proposed changes to piecework and additional work solve two major bottlenecks and reduce new constructions designed to pay below. I'll get back to that later. Mrs Voortman spoke about the cabinet's intention to introduce the minimum statutory hourly wage. Indeed, the Cabinet believes that this could further simplify enforcement, thereby increasing effectiveness with existing capacity. The cabinet investigates this, but takes more time for this because of the due diligence. This allows for extensive consultation of stakeholders and experts. The first step in this is the internet consultation of an official preliminary draft, which will take place in the first months of 2017. I told you, the minimum youth wage has not been adjusted since 1983, 33 years ago. In the meantime, our labour market has changed dramatically. It is therefore high time to adapt the law to the changed social perception of the labour market and the income position of young people. With this bill, the minimum youth wage also fits much better with what is internationally common. Young & United's actions effectively put that on the map and featured it. I agree with those Members of Parliament who have congratulated them on this. Mrs Voortman and Mr Ulenbelt pointed out that the start was made by Soufian, who, at the Ahold shareholders' meeting in April 2015, made a very funny statement for a full wage for young people. In addition, autograph actions, publicity and discussions with the House of Representatives showed that there was real support for a change. This led to the majority of the Chamber calling for a substantial increase in the minimum youth wage. However, the Chamber did not give me an easy mandate, because the same motion asked to take into account the employment effects, the effects on participation in training and the effects on apprenticeships in secondary vocational education. That brings me to Mrs Voortman's question, which was also asked by Mr Ulenbelt, whether I support the principle of equal pay for equal work. That is to ask for the familiar way, because of course I share that principle. This also applies to the objective of ensuring that young people are entitled to full income. This means that they must be able to earn a decent wage, but also that we must ensure that they have opportunities for good work and good education. That is why these figures from the Central Planning Bureau are important in the assessment. Employment is important for young people, whether they are migrants or not, and therefore we need to look very closely at the effects of this type of change. The Central Planning Office has passed on a number of variants of the adjustment of the minimum wage. Mrs Voortman and Mr Ulenbelt said that they should not be taken so seriously, but I think that is unwise. The independent mathematicians are not there to decide what to do politically. They are there because it is useful to be able to ask independent third parties to help us calculate. The figures show that if we reduced the age for the adult minimum wage at one stroke to 18 years, the employment effects would be extremely large. This reduction, also in response to Mr De Graaf's question, is estimated by the Central Planning Bureau at 135.000 people. This is a multiple of the effects of the change that the cabinet is now proposing to the Chamber. It is precisely in order to minimise negative effects on employment, unemployment and training decisions that we choose to adjust the age for which the WML applies to 21 years. We do that step by step, and we adjust the stem. With that argument and also because of the lack of coverage for the costs involved in Mrs Voortman's and Mr Ulenbelt's proposals, I would advise against the amendment, including Amendment No NOW. The legislative proposal stipulates that we must keep a close eye on the labour market situation of young people in the coming years. Mr Ulenbelt gave me a nice question in that respect. What would the Central Planning Bureau have found of the introduction of the child law of Van Houten? That is a law of 1874, on the initiative of liberal politician Samuel van Houten. It is good that the pride of social legislation is shared in liberal circles. You're gonna see things differently. I can come up with anything the Central Planning Bureau could put in the picture. They could deal with the labour supply. You can hope that they would also point out the importance for the Netherlands and our economy and the fact that we all become more prosperous when children go to school instead of working in the factory. But, as far as I am concerned, speculating on that is pointless. It is ultimately about what is decided here, but in doing so you must ensure that you have as many relevant facts as possible. There is always more to this than just an economic effect, but also what you think is fair or not. I have thus understood the mandate of the Chamber: not only an increase in the minimum wage for young people, but a smart increase. With this proposal, we opt for such a smart increase. Step-by-step from 23 years to 21 years, so that the right is set for all while taking into account possible negative effects of a higher minimum wage for young people. The minimum wage is a very important tool for ensuring the security of life, but it also involves costs in terms of employment. That is precisely why I am taking a number of specific measures. Mrs Schouten also informed about this step-by-step introduction. This gives employers more time to anticipate and we can now keep a finger on the pulse with regard to the effects. Bbl-spots are partly excluded, so it remains attractive for employers to offer these places. Mrs Schouten, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma already asked me about the exception for bbl-spots. The cabinet opts for this exception to ensure that it remains attractive for employers to offer these places, precisely because they remain so useful on their way to the labour market. Such an exception is also common in other countries, such as Germany, France and Belgium. With the monitoring we will look very closely at the development of the number of bbl-spots, including those of 21- and 22-year-olds. And yes, there can then be a small difference between the minimum remuneration of students in bbl-courses and bol-courses. At the same time, the Centraal Planning Bureau's note shows that a large proportion of the employees already earn more than the minimum wage in the current situation. The difference will therefore not be too great. In addition, employers are partly compensated for the increase, which has been designed for 18- to 21-year-olds. 21- and 22-year-olds may, if they meet the conditions, qualify for the LIV, the low-income advantage. That is also the answer to Mr Ulenbelt's question as to why employers receive compensation. By compensating them, we are not only ensuring that young people receive a higher wage, but also that they keep their jobs. By financing that compensation from the Disability Fund (AOF), the costs are borne by all employers together. It is solidarity between employers in the interests of young people. The AOF is the only fund to which all employers contribute, both private and government employers. Mrs Schouten and Mr Van Weyenberg also asked me about the way in which this monitoring will take place. Mid-August 2018 we have data on four quarters of youth unemployment and employment development. These four quarters are needed to correct seasonal effects. At that time, we have data on the development of the labour force, unemployment, employment by sector, participation in education and, specifically, the number of enrolments for learning places in the bbl for the academic year 2017-2018. These data give an indication of the labour market position of young people at that time. This is the overall picture of the minimum legal wage, the measures that limit the negative labour market effects and, of course, the economic situation. At that time, it can be considered whether the development of the labour market position of young people differs significantly from the development of the labour market as a whole. If that is the case, if the government decided to do so, the law could be amended in order not to allow a second step to be taken. So it is as Mr Van Weyenberg just said: that second step is in the law and the monitoring is there to be able to pull the emergency brake if it goes completely wrong. I thank Mr De Graaf for his increasing confidence. I'm counting a three-stage. It began with the appointment of John de Wolf, which Mr De Graaf enthusiastically supported. Last week, during the budget debate, he expressed his wish for four more years, which he later tried to pin on the CDA. Now stand up for what you find! Today he talked about the light at the end of the tunnel. We all know that this can also be an upcoming train, but I think this light was really positive, although I now see that it is turning away from that too. I hear Mr De Graaf screaming in four years' time in that tunnel. I've felt that way with him in that tunnel, let's just say that. But sometimes we all agree that something is wise. That's worth something in politics, too. In this respect, I can fully endorse what Mrs Vermeij said about this in her commendable contribution. It's good to realize between all that noise that you can accomplish things in this room. In this connection, Mr De Graaf asked me if I could ask my successor, whom he hopes I am myself, to report on this monitoring also on the basis of the old national definition of unemployment. I don't think that makes any sense. I think it would be wiser to follow the CBS. It uses the international definition and also makes a comparison with previous years on the basis of the same definition. It is good to always mention that, because otherwise there will be some kind of conspiracy theory about that definition and fortunately that is not the case. Mrs Schouten asked me why the compensation scheme is so complicated. The scheme may look complex, but it only has two conditions in itself: an age criterion and an hourly wage criterion, and is therefore relatively simple. These two conditions are necessary in order to ensure that it reaches the young people concerned, namely those between 18 and 22 years of age with a wage around the minimum wage for young people. In addition, the employer does not have to apply for compensation in the wage costs, which is paid automatically by the Tax Administration. That falls into the old category of "We can't make it any better, but we can make it easier." In this case, more fun also applies. This is done automatically. These measures improve the income position of working young people, respond to changing social attitudes and minimise negative effects. In this connection, Mr Van Weyenberg asked me whether I would pay attention to the relationship between pay, performance and seniority. Mr Van Weyenberg and I have had several exchanges of views on this subject, when discussing the Action Plan Perspective for over 50 people, but also in numerous general discussions. As indicated earlier, wage curves in the Netherlands are comparable in international perspective to those in our neighbouring countries. When comparing the Netherlands with continental-European countries such as Austria, France, Belgium and Germany, it is particularly striking that the wage profile in the Netherlands is becoming more flatter at the end of the career. It is indeed up to employers and employees to make agreements together, both at sectoral and individual level. The government welcomes the development of more and more collective agreements based on training and experience, rather than just age-based. The law lays down the minimum wage per month. The minimum wage per week is derived from that. Depending on the working time in corresponding industrial relations, the so-called normal working time, the worker generally has to work 36 to 40 hours. In the case of part-time work, the worker is entitled to a part-time minimum wage, but what if a worker works structurally or occasionally far more than the agreed hours or normal working hours? Logically, he would then be entitled to a proportional increase in the minimum weekly wage. That is what our inspection was based on in enforcement policy, but there was no explicit legal basis in the law. This made it impossible to maintain the minimum wage in this respect. This led to the situation where someone has to work 50 hours a week in structural terms, while under the law he is only entitled to a minimum weekly wage. That's undesirable. This also leads to displacement and artificial labour costs. This bill will fix that defect. In addition to the agreed and normal working hours, the employee is entitled to the minimum wage in proportion to the hour. In order to prevent this from being avoided by artificially increasing normal working hours, the normal working hours are limited to the maximum usually applied by employers and workers, namely 40 hours a week. However, the proposal provides for flexibility to include hours worked above the agreed working time in free time under conditions at a later date. Thus, under conditions, because if an employee does not get paid his hours and only has a vague agreement about later inclusion in free will, this could in turn lead to an erosion of the protection of the WML. Therefore, as usual during holiday hours, the employee should be given the opportunity to record the more worked hours before 1 July of the following year. If they are not admitted, they still have to be paid out at that time. It was also agreed that such time-before-time arrangements should be made possible in the collective agreement. In the case of temporary workers, this is the collective agreement of the user. Mrs Schouten asked why it should be that way. It concerns flexibility with regard to the minimum protection of workers. This minimum protection cannot therefore be made dependent on what is agreed individually. This does not adequately reflect the dependent position in which employees, especially those who are rewarded at the statutory minimum wage, are in relation to the employer. That can lead to abuse soon. That is why compensation for additional work at a later stage can only be done in this way. This ensures that the choice of flexibility in minimum protection takes due account of the interests of the workers concerned. That means that I must answer Mrs Schouten's question in the negative as well. There is nothing wrong with it in itself if a reward is made conditional on the performance of the work. There's something wrong with it if it means that you can't make enough money with a full working week to provide your primary necessities. That's what's going on with piecework. That is precisely the situation that this legislative proposal counteracts. Piece pay will remain possible, but we'll put a bottom under it. Workers must be paid at least the statutory minimum wage per hour worked. In doing so, we are combating unfair competition on working conditions at the expense of workers. This will also combat repression. We also achieve that employees receive a fair wage. The current legislation does not provide sufficient opportunities to address the abuse of piece-of-work payment. Several examples have come through the Chamber. It is the employer who sets the performance standard and indicates how much time it takes to stick a kilo of asparagus or clean a hotel room and what he then pays for it. The employee often has no insight into this or elements that do help to determine or even slow down the pace of work do not appear to be included in the performance standard. You can also see this in the Panteia study on the use of piece wages. Sometimes the employer calculates the time so tight that the performance standard is not feasible for many employees. In the end, as an employee, you do not receive the minimum wage but less, sometimes even significantly less. This leads to artificially low-cost production and therefore competes on unfair terms with other employers who believe that the minimum wage for working in the Netherlands should be paid and that you should not pass the bill on to employees. It is important that the inspection should be able to maintain the minimum wage even in the case of payment based on piecework. With the current legislation, our inspection cannot be carried out properly enough. That is why the piecework provision in the WML is adjusted, so that the right to pay the statutory minimum wage is guaranteed even in the case of piecework payment. It is no longer dependent on subjective performance standards defined unilaterally and often unverifiable by an employer. Sometimes you hear the objection that this could impair the motivation of employees. They will be paid the minimum wage after all and may no longer be motivated to do more. I'm not convinced of that. I think it's motivating for an employee if he knows that his employer pays him an acceptable wage and maybe a little more if he works hard. If the employee does not make sufficient efforts, the employer must contact him, as is the case with employees who are paid time wages. That's the other side of the coin. The employee is guaranteed the minimum wage, but has to do his job properly. Another objection to consequences for employers is that there would be a huge paperwork if everyone had to keep track of how many hours worked. The Working Time Act already requires the registration of working hours, including in the case of work outside the company. So this is not a new demand. In addition, the registration for the WML is form-free, so that the employer can best match the obligations he already has. Mr Van 't Wout has drawn attention to the conversion of employers who now work with piecework. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked whether employers would have sufficient time to prepare themselves. Employers in sectors affected by this change in the piecework provision have sufficient time. The bill was presented to the Chamber on 17 October. It's been public ever since. Anyone who has followed this debate can also assume that a rather large majority of the House will support the legislative proposal, so we can start preparing ourselves. For a number of sectors where piecework is paid, it is also very easy to determine and assess working hours. However, I realize that, and I have to admit to Mr Van 't Wout, it really requires a different approach for a number of individual employers. That is why I will speak with the social partners about the impact of changing the piecework provision on management and how we will adapt enforcement to it. There is a special sounding board set up for which employers working with piecework will be invited. I will get the signal that Mr Van 't Wout has delivered here today. Let us be aware that these are employees, people who are just above minimum wage levels and who have to work a full week in order to provide for themselves or their families. It's those people who need the protection. I am convinced that we can introduce it in such a way that it will take place on 1 July next year without creating surprises for companies or being sufficiently involved in this preparation. I would also like to update this in the spring, but these workers should not be beaten by unreasonable or unclear performance standards that lead to actual underpayment without us being able to do anything about it from the inspection. It gives a huge feeling of injustice when it is evident and yet you can do too little. In this context, Mrs Voortman referred to Rambam's broadcast on the hotel sector. She asked how many fines were imposed and whether hidden pieces of wages were more frequent. She asked me what I want to do about it. The inspection puts the capacity at risk. That means where there are the most persistent problems and the probability of impact is the greatest. The aim is to tackle the notorious offenders and abuses. Those are the companies that knowingly break the law. These companies are undermining a well-functioning labour market and they are undermining our social security system. One of these risk sectors is the cleaning sector. That is why the inspection has set up a separate monitoring programme. Within this programme, an optimal mix of tools is sought to achieve the objectives and effects: information, conversations with the industry, but also sanctioning, maintaining and monitoring. Furthermore, it is asked whether hidden constructions are more common. Yes, the inspection encounters a multitude of sneaky constructions. This bill lays the ground under that piece of money. I think it is very important that the standard be set. The statutory minimum wage must be paid per hour and the inspection will also have more opportunities to act. Mr Heerma asked how employers can be prevented from evasive towards zzp structures. An employer can't just switch tozzp-structures. The nature and circumstances of the work determine the nature of the employment relationship and whether there is an employeeship or a company. It is therefore not possible to opt for the use ofzzp'ers where employees were previously involved. Mrs Vermeij and Mr Van Weyenberg asked what I am doing to avoid problems with host parents now that the piecework is being abolished. It is true that by changing the piece wage provision at least the minimum wage per hour must be paid and that host parents will in principle be covered by the WML following the adoption of the WML-ovo bill. So that would bring about a change. It is true that this can have significant consequences for the price that demand parents will have to pay and, consequently, for the offer of host parents who cannot or do not want to receive more than one child at a time. With two kids, you're already here. However, the WML-ovo legislative proposal also provides for the possibility of excluding from the scope of the WML the employment relationship of certain categories of persons in AMvB due to special circumstances. The host care facility is eligible for this. It is a special employment relationship, in which one works in one's own home and can partially combine this with one's own tasks. In addition, the ovo is closed per parent couple. This leads to the situation that when a parent brings two children to a host parent, a fee of two times €5.60 is enough, but when the eldest child goes to school, the rate for the other child suddenly has to rise significantly. For the host parents, once they receive two children from one parent couple, they receive the minimum wage per hour, but if they receive two children from different parents, they must receive the minimum wage from both parents. It's two contract agreements. This makes it clear that there is a specific situation here which justifies an exception for that sector. I will therefore make use of the possibility of excluding from AMvB host parents the WML, so that the current remuneration structure and flexibility can be maintained. The WML-ovo bill will enter into force six months after publication. This offers plenty of time to prepare the AMvB. Moreover, I very much hope that the First Chamber will follow the example of the House of Representatives some time later and will indeed accept the bill. That would be very good. Mrs Schouten and Mr Heerma asked me how I assess the consequences of abolishing piecework during work outside the company, for example at home. How can the employer monitor productivity and hours worked? Well, in many sectors, distance work in any form is daily practice, even when it comes to remuneration to space of time. For example, when it comes to parcel delivery, home care and cleaning, it is already customary and well organised to keep track of how much time is being worked. The employee can do that by himself. That doesn't cause any problems either. When delivering leaflets, that space is generally available to the employee and therefore an employer will have to take measures to verify the number of hours worked. In fact, these measures involve monitoring of implementation. There may be costs involved. Ultimately, the question is whether the additional actions and costs required for employers outweigh the desired additional protection of workers and the prevention of distortions of competition through underpayment. In my view, the answer to that question is affirmative. Workers at the bottom of the labour market must also be able to trust that if they do their job properly, they will be able to receive the statutory minimum wage. Employers must be able to rely on their colleagues or competitors to pay fair wages to their employees and to compete fairly. However, I will go into the amendment that has been tabled in a moment. An amendment has been tabled by the VVD and the CDA in order to be able to work with the "reasonably" standard on piecework in certain specific cases. Mrs Schouten already asked me what I think of that amendment. I understand the wish expressed. After all, you want to set it up in such a way that all sectors can get out of the way with this law. I think this is the case with the legislative proposal that lies in itself, but at the same time I note that I have not been able to convince everyone of it. This means that I would like to leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. I do so with confidence, because the criteria that will apply to depart from the legislation show that there is a balance. There must be reasons to deal with the worker's freedom to organise his own work and the limited possibilities for the employer to supervise. Those reasons are reviewed by the foundation and by me at the joint request of the foundation. There are also safeguards to ensure that workers will earn the statutory minimum wage, even if the so-called "reasonably" standard is used. That standard will be established on a decentralised basis, and that is also a good thing. Not every employer will be able to set a standard for himself and at sectoral level it can. That was also part of the criticism of the Council of State. A standard supported by the sector also has a guarantee that that standard is right. It prevents underpayment and will simplify enforcement. In short, I leave this amendment to the House's discretion. The SP has tabled an amendment to abolish piecework altogether. I'd advise against that. As I have indicated, it is a well-established method of remuneration in a number of sectors, which also works in practice. It can also be perceived as stimulating. The major problem we face with this law is precisely the lack of soil. No misunderstanding, I do not close my eyes to the fact that in some cases piece wages can deliberately lead to underpayment and exploitation. That is not acceptable, and that is why this bill provides for that kind of soil. Mrs Voortman asked me if the inspection has sufficient capacity to maintain. Mr Heerma asked about the enforcement role and whether it would indeed be simpler. He also asked if the inspection was involved in the bill. The bill gives the inspection more opportunities to maintain unwanted situations in more cases, such as underpayment by applying piecework or non-payment of additional work. As I indicated in the explanatory memorandum, the current regime does not allow the inspection to continue. The change whereby the minimum wage must be paid per hour at least makes the inspection better able to maintain. In addition, the inspection can now do nothing about paying minimum wage for which much more hours are to be worked than can be expected. I have outlined the lack of a legal basis for this. The draft law does, however, lead to an intensification of enforcement. There will be underpayment in more cases, so more research is needed and a fine report needs to be drawn up more often. But that's what we want, because we're against underpayment. We would like the inspection to be able to maintain and actually do so. As these surveys are increasing in size and more cases of underpayment can be identified, we will take this into account when prioritizing. Last week we discussed the development of the inspection. In the motion Heerma/Van Weyenberg is asked to see how we will continue to develop the inspection in the coming period. If I am not mistaken, the Court has also adopted proposals for structural strengthening of the capacity of the inspection. The inspection also carried out an enforcement test on the draft legislative proposal. I'm closing up. I would like to thank the Chamber and all those involved in the drafting of the legislative proposal for the support that is now available for this proposal. I think it is extremely important to note that sometimes decades pass before the law changes, but that we are able to find each other, in the interests of the future and in the interests of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	I had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Weyenberg. That was going to cross the street or rivers and stuff. It took 40 years and this is either the first or the second stone. I am very curious to see what perspective the Minister sees so that we no longer get criticism from the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	I enjoyed that debate very much. You see how a metaphor like that works with people. Before you know it, you're all in the middle of the river or on a busy highway. The point is that we are doing something for the first time in 40 years, that youth wages are rising and that we are doing so in a sensible way. I think the voter's gonna talk about how that goes. You see different starting points in the election programmes of the different parties. I am very pleased, grateful and proud that, in addition to all those spiritual fathers and mothers in this Chamber, I can defend this proposal as a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	It's been 40 years and I've been through all these years. An obvious question then is whether I'm going to see it go to 18 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	I wish Mr Ulenbelt every success. I wish him a long, healthy life, with Mrs Ulenbelt. I don't know when it's gonna be like this, but I do wish it on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	I think it was Mrs Van Wijken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	Marga Wijker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	Okay, excuse me. So what's the final goal the minister wants to go to? He pleads as a list leader for your ideals to be based on. Everyone understands that you have to compromise. You can't always realize your specific programme exactly. But what is the ultimate goal of this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you. I was previously described in the Volkskrant as the savior of Mr Ulenbelt's marriage. Sometimes you have to collect what you get, even when it's unexpected. I think that this was an exaggeration and that he is personally responsible for it, but if I have been able to contribute to it, I welcome it. Mrs. Voortman is asking a very nice question. It is important to answer them honestly in politics. What is the difference between what you want as a list leader or a politician with your program and what you do here as a minister? Indeed, you describe your ideals and as a minister or a politician you put them into practice by taking steps forward. Everyone in this Chamber agrees that we are taking a step forward today. It's a wonderful time to explain, including to voters, that it works that way. You describe your ideals. Sometimes they're different from each other. You look for majorities, you try to do it wisely, you also consider objections and you take a step forward. The fact that this only succeeds once every 40 years on such a subject shows how difficult it is, but also how worthwhile it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	Do we have to wait another 40 years before it goes to 18 years? Or does it go much faster to 18 years if it's the minister's fault? What are we gonna do in the next term?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	The government is now proposing to reduce it in two steps. The various political parties, including the party I am a member of, propose to go faster to 18 years. It is first up to the electorate to decide which parties are at the helm for the next period. Whatever happens and whatever the interruption, I enjoy the fact that I am the minister who can defend this proposal today. It's a big step forward. I wanted to take this space metaphor a small step for man, but not a big step for mankind, because it was even more delirious, but we do have debates with each other in which the differences of opinion are greater. I very much agree with Mrs Voortman that you should ultimately come up with a full reward from all adults, but there is nothing against working to that in a sensible way, taking into account the fact that you want young people to keep their jobs. Will that take 40 years? I don't think so, but neither of us knows where we'll be in 40 years. That is the characteristic of the trip to Mars, or as a Chinese proverb says: a 1000-mile journey starts with one step. In hindsight, you only see when the steps were small and when they were big. Today it is a big step, but we do not know when the next one will be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	Perhaps this interruption will prevent a second deadline. We are working on legislation here. My point may be a little less uplifting, but nevertheless important. I welcome the Minister's assessment of my and the CDA's amendment. I just see that the daily publishers have also said that it is supported and that the clients can handle it well. However, there are still two things. There must be a ministerial arrangement if the clients or employers are to work with such a standard. Can we have that arrangement soon? I hope so. The Minister also knows that this is difficult in some sectors because employers are not organised in these sectors. For example, you could think of an external audit firm. I would ask the Minister to include this in his report. You will work with a standard again; that is the purpose of the law and that is what we support. However, in view of the intention of the amendment, it seems to me appropriate to say here that it should be possible to work with this in order to ensure that the practice is reasonable. We want to do justice to that too. I'll make it a little bit more visual: it doesn't matter if you deliver leaflets in a flat where all the mailboxes are next to each other or if you deliver leaflets to farms that are miles apart. I hope that the Minister will interpret it that way when this amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	Yes. I would like to congratulate Mr Van 't Wout on the technical aspect of his amendment. With this, the co-legislator improves the bill with utmost precision. I can see the balance in that. I think it would be good to discuss this explicitly with each other. This balance means that an exception can be obtained if it is appropriate for the sector and there are sufficient grounds for doing so. Mr Van 't Wout asks what happens if a sectoral standard is needed, but a sector is not organised, if there is no normal interview partner or if it is not possible for an employer to get out of it in a normal, reasonable way with the employees. I understand that very well. The amendment provides that this can be done, but at the same time it is subject to conditions. We do not want an employer in such a sector to say 'do only 100 hotel rooms an hour', because it is obvious that you should not want that. Then someone should consider whether that is another standard that can be worked on. That someone shouldn't be the minister, because he doesn't know about it and doesn't know how many rooms you can clean in an hour. So there must be a condition that can be exactly as Mr Van 't Wout describes it: you point out an independent third party who knows the sector or you ask perhaps two or three people to make a judgment on the standard. It should not involve a great deal of red tape, but the balance between the employer's interests and the employee's interests, which characterises the legislative proposal, should be there. In this way, I would also like to shape these conditions by way of ministerial regulation. I understand very well that Mr Van 't Wout says that he also wants to be able to see that last piece soon if the bill enters into force on 1 July. I agree to start with that immediately and to send that arrangement to the Chamber when we are together, so that you can see how I have shaped it. That must be the case in February. I understand the concern and I think we share the goal. That is why I also welcome the amendment, which allows us to keep the balance that is being sought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	I note that only Mr Öztürk needs a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I've had to type two motions to ask the Chamber for a ruling. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 22% of Dutch young people with a migrant background are unemployed, compared with 9% of young people without a migrant background;]] [[Considers that this is extremely worrying and that it is therefore desirable to establish a checkable ambition to achieve improvement in the future;]] [[points out that it is desirable to draw up policy targets on unemployment among young people with a migrant background,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34573-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	Then I'll move on to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that monitoring of the labour market position of young people is part of the present legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account in this monitoring of young people's labour market position:]] [[possible differences in the labour market position between young people with different background characteristics, such as origin or level of education;]] [[possible consequences with regard to the nature of employment;]] [[young people's training decisions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34573-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. Chairman. I was also guilty of commenting on the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Öztürk. This one came in a little later and I didn't have her in the preparation. My response to that amendment is in line with my previous response to Mrs Voortman's and Mr Ulenbelt's amendments, where we have deliberately chosen to shape the abolition of youth pay for 21- and 22-year-olds in two steps, because we want to ensure that at the same time they receive higher pay and retain the jobs that young people have. That is a choice that requires me to discourage this amendment. I will continue with Mr Öztürk's two motions. In his first motion, that in part No. 13, there is no request to the government, so I cannot give an opinion on a ruling from the Court on this matter. His second motion, in part No. 14, is about the design of the monitor. Some of the elements mentioned in his motion will certainly be involved in the monitor. But I think it would be better to agree to submit the design of that monitor to the Chamber in due course. The members Schouten, Heerma and Van 't Wout also asked about this. The Court could then assess whether elements should be added or removed. If we put these three things into that now, I do not think that does justice to the complexity of this. I would ask Mr Öztürk to hold this motion until the monitoring proposal comes to the Chamber. If not, I would have to discourage the motion, because we would then be violating the importance of carefully examining this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	We will vote next Tuesday on the bill, the amendments and the motions tabled. I thank the Minister, but also the MPs. I thought this was a very quiet debate. It's nice for a president to see that, too. But, as has already been said, it also shows how cooperation can sometimes lead to good results.
