ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, EenVandaag came up with the disturbing message that a lot of seizures are going wrong. Stuff gets lost in the police after raids and arrests. Everything disappears: bags, drugs, jewelry. You're wondering if that's an administrative sloppy thing or if it's a setup. In the latter case, we're talking about theft. That's a suspicion that gets the police in big trouble. In the broadcast of EenVandaag we already saw that suspects often do not press charges. After all, how and why would you complain about drugs that disappeared after seizure and therefore can no longer end up on your charge? That's not in your best interest as a suspect. That's how the person who embezzles the stuff gets away with it with impunity. If police officers are reprimanded, that punishment is not always effective. They are transferred and thus kept within the organisation. But you can't be "a little" integrity inside the police, can you? In addition, this issue is not new; as early as 2015, the National Ombudsman concluded that amounts are being misunderstood in minutes. The Rambam program also denounced theft by the police. Something really needs to be done now, because this affects the integrity of and trust in the police. The Minister is ultimately responsible for the police and that's why I'm here. My questions to the Minister are as follows. Does the Minister know how big this problem is? Does he know the causes of the disappearances of items? If he doesn't, will he investigate it? What has the Minister done so far and what are the results?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u2	I call the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Swinkels for asking these questions. I sent an extensive letter to the Chamber early this morning containing my response and answers to the message from Nieuwsuur. I will refer to this in my speech. I won't repeat myself. In fact, on a very large number of points, I have already indicated what the policies of recent years have been and how we have changed things, in particular as a result of the 2013 WODC study and the 2013 inspection investigation. Indeed, a number of wrongdoings came to light. A whole policy was then implemented, which was audited by means of an audit in 2015. At that time, fortunately, only two improvements were possible, but in the whole other part of the National Police Corps, the seizure was in order. Let me say first of all that it is quite right for Mrs Swinkels to ask questions, because seizure is an important process in the search. After all, crime must not be rewarded. The process requires care and attention. It is very important that when incidents occur in the seizure process, it is carefully considered whether there is any integrity violations, whether there is any need to act against them, or whether there is any carelessness. If there is a suspicion of criminal offences, an investigation will of course be launched. Mrs Swinkels is right to say that theft and embezzlement of seized goods is unacceptable. For the rest, of course, the herd process must be monitored by the investigative services. That is very important. In response to the broadcast, the Public Prosecutor's Office has therefore undertaken to examine with the Dutch Association of Criminal Law Advocates the specific information on which the lawyers base their rulings. If it comes with concrete information, action can be taken. Anyone who has seen the news will know that there were not many concrete indications. I think it's important that they come. For the record, it might be good to note that the National Ombudsman is currently conducting an investigation into the seizure process. Of course, I will inform you about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u4	When I listen to the Minister in this way, I hear him say that, in view of the audit in 2015, it is all in order. Furthermore, I hear him saying that this is an incident. Well, then I'm worried. I want the Minister to solve this problem in the shortest possible time, because it undermines trust in the police. We had all the police moles and we just talked about ethnic profiling. Trust in the police is getting a big chew now. Do not let the Minister dismiss that broadcast of One-Today as an incident and let him take that signal seriously. Does the Minister speak to Chief Akerboom in the short term to resolve this? Is he not only doing this in the autumn? There are many more investigations announced but is he still doing so this summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u5	I just made it very clear that in 2013 a problem had been identified by the WODC. That was then carefully considered by the inspection. Improvement measures have been implemented in many areas, and we have also informed your Chamber. For example, the work process, training, ICT and chain-wide cooperation have been addressed. Subsequently internal audits of the seizure process were carried out in all units. That review in 2015 showed that, except for two, all units have the internal process in order. We then have a number of measures, which I also mentioned in the letter; I will not repeat them. On the number of complaints, Mrs Swinkels says it is a major problem. On the basis of the figures, I can't confirm that. In 2014, there were 83 complaints and in 2015 only 62, thus significantly less, out of a total volume of 200,000 seizures. I think it is very important that the association of criminal attorneys informs the Public Prosecutor about the concrete examples, so that it can be considered whether action should be taken on them. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u6	I hear the Minister saying that the number of complaints would be small. From the broadcast of EenVandaag we point out that the lawyers complain that signals are being done far too little and that it is a long-term and ongoing problem. I'll be on the audit. Perhaps internal processes are in order, but once again, paper is patient. I am concerned with the implementation of these processes. In other words, is there now a view and control of these seizures? That is why I would like to put pressure on the Minister to put this right now. Can the Minister promise that he will let the Chamber know at the end of September how the theft of seized property could happen and what has actually been done about this problem within the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u7	That's all in the letter I sent this morning, so I'd like to refer Mrs. Swinkels to that. The essence is that the police have taken and continue to take action in a number of areas and that the National Ombudsman is carrying out an investigation. Of course I will inform you about all these points. Moreover, in modernising the Code of Criminal Procedure, I will review the entire seizure process. This arrangement will be sent to the Court as early as June in the progress report on the modernisation of the Code. I also refer in the letter to the integrity policy. The police inform and report on this in the annual report. As soon as the Ombudsman has completed his inquiry, I will, of course, inform the Court, as Mrs Schwinkels has requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u8	The Minister always refers to a letter sent to the Chamber this morning. However, that letter was sent to the Chamber after the announcement of the oral questions, so that makes the discussion a bit complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u9	I see I still have time, so I would like to ask one more clarification. The Minister says he's going to inform the Chamber. Then I would like to have the promise that this will be done by September at the latest. Can he promise that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u10	I have just said that I will inform the Chamber as soon as the National Ombudsman has completed his inquiry. As is well known, the National Ombudsman is a High College of State. I can't have his schedule. As soon as the investigation is available, I think that is very important, and for Mrs Swinkels too, I will, of course, send it to the Chamber, if necessary, with any reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u11	You may make a final remark, Mrs. Swinkels, but you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u12	I still can't hear the minister say "September." Of course, this is much more than the investigation of the National Ombudsman. I still urge him to inform the Chamber in September of what is happening with this stuff and what he is going to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u13	I said what I said about it. I have also indicated in the letter what steps are being taken and at what point the Chamber will be informed. This is particularly true of the Ombudsman. When it's done with his investigation, I'll send it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u14	It is a good thing that the Minister sent a letter this morning, because in response to the broadcast the Ministry and therefore the Minister were actually a bit playful. They didn't take it seriously at all, but apparently they did now. There are two elements in the Minister's letter explaining what measures have been taken: the four-eyed principle, so that the police do more together, and a good education. Let that be just the problem with the police, which is in the water's face and which this cabinet once again wants to make too little money available. Is the Minister still able to respond to that? What's he gonna do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u15	What I describe in the letter is simply provided for in the national police's standing budget of over 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-31-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
