ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mr Van Raak, Mrs Fokke, Mrs Thieme and Mr Klein, and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber. I would also like to welcome Mrs Van den Berg, the counsellor of the initiators. I would remind the Chamber that the votes on the aforementioned legislative proposals were removed from the Chamber's agenda on 16 February 2016 in connection with the request for a third deadline, including roll-call votes. We are now starting with the third term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would almost like to add a cheerful welcome to the initiators and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but I am aware that they see this third term with more mixed feelings than I do, so I shall leave that aside. However, it is nice that they are prepared to continue this debate with us. We concluded the debate on the bill and the novel on the House of whistleblowers three weeks ago with the commitment of the initiators to send a further position to the Chamber on a single point. This was in particular a possible prohibition to penalise employees other than employees with an employment relationship or contract of employment that ring the bell in their employment relationship with the employer or client. These are independent contractors, trainees and volunteers. In their letter of 12 February, the initiators gave an overview of the existing civil law possibilities forzzp'ers to stand up against disadvantage. They merely did not answer the question as to why, following the ban on dismissal for workers on a contract of employment, no generic protection against disadvantage for other whistleblowers could be incorporated into the law. In conjunction with the specific provisions mentioned by the initiators, such a generic provision provides precisely that additional protection tozzp's, trainees and volunteers that they also deserve, and not just civil servants and contract staff. Minister Plasterk also put a dime in the bag, by letter of 15 February. The Minister stated that an explicit ban on the disadvantage of these groups could not be a simple or simple repair of the present law, because the ban on harm in the system of promoters is linked to workers' rights for which there is a legal basis. The latter is true, but that does not rule out a simple repair of course. On 10 February, the Klokluiders Advisory Point reminded us of an earlier suggestion made to the House of Representatives that a provision should be included in the law expressly prohibiting the employer from harming those who, other than in employment, have performed or have performed work in connection with the in good faith and duly reporting of a defect, as referred to in Article 1 (d) of the Act. That is a concrete possibility which has been ignored in the debate and in the letters. I would also like to draw attention to the clear question raised three weeks ago by Mrs Barth, who is unfortunately absent because of illness today. She asked why the law did not choose the concept of a whistleblower rather than the concept of an employee. In short, insufficient clarity has been created in the debate and subsequent letters from the initiators and the minister. That is why this third deadline has been applied for. Part of this Chamber, I hope a majority, wishes to clarify this by deciding on the desirability of an arrangement after the adoption and entry into force of this law. I have wholeheartedly signed the motion that Mr Bikker of the Christian Union will be tabling shortly. A second point that has not yet led to clarity concerns the separation between the importance of the investigation and the criminal justice system. The system chosen by the initiators is a subject of considerable hesitation in several political groups. Moreover, there is this hesitation with the advisor of the initiators who is not present at the moment, but last time. He has strongly distanced himself from them at this point. I would like to invite the initiators to respond to that powerful movement of Mr Van Vollenhoven. I assume that Mrs Bikker, who is also in the process of preparing a motion which I support, will explain this further. Subject to these two points, my group can support the initiative proposal. We shall therefore vote in favour. Why this should be done in a roll-call vote is, moreover, completely lacking in us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors and the Minister for writing about the differences in the legal protection of whistleblowers. And thank you to Mr De Graaf for applying for a third term. Both letters do not give my group the decisive argument for accepting that the legal protection varies between employees within the meaning of the WFD or civil servants within the meaning of civil service law, on the one hand, and whistleblowers who are involved in an organisation as an undertaking, a trainee or a volunteer, on the other. The Clockblowers Advisory Point already sent us a clear proposal on how to apply the ban on bellblowers to all whistleblowers. In the arguments put forward by the authors and the Minister, my group lacks an answer to the question of why legal protection is unequal. The Minister's reply, in which he refers to the chosen legal system, namely the linking of the ban on discrimination to the workers' rights which have a legal basis, is a factual definition but does not answer the question of why. Furthermore, the Minister's speech underlines the point that Mrs Barth made on behalf of the PvdA Group in the first term, namely that this should be about the protection of whistleblowers and not about who has legal workers' rights. The Christian Union Group remains convinced that equal legal protection should be the starting point for all whistleblowers and that an extension of the ban on harm is therefore appropriate. Therefore, in consultation with colleagues from PvdA, D66, VVD, GroenLinks, SGP, SP and Party for Animals, I will also table the following motion on their behalf. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr De Graaf, Mr Köhler, Mr Schalk, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Barth and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the House for whistleblowers has an advisory function for all whistleblowers, both for employees and for those who are or have been engaged in employment other than in employment;]] [[noting that the legal protection of whistleblowers is restricted to employees and civil servants by the prohibition of harm;]] [[Whereas the person who is or has been engaged in employment other than in employment is also entitled to legal protection against disadvantage as a result of the notification of a suspicion of misconduct;]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly implement a supplement to the bill so that the person who, other than in employment, has carried out or has reported on the suspicion of a defect is also legally protected against disadvantage as a result of reporting a suspicion of a defect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33258-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u4	I take it I can move on? That's the case. Welcome to the extra petitioner who came in. I am particularly concerned about my second point, namely that this legislative proposal has not removed the tension between the information position of the Public Prosecutor and the Nemo-Tenetur principle. A whistleblower will not want to contribute to his own conviction and will therefore only cooperate limitedly in the investigation if he or she himself has for some time made himself guilty of causing wrongdoing. Moreover, this will also apply at the research stage to colleagues of the whistleblower, to their own actions or to those of managers. The current proposal provides for a cooperation protocol between the Public Prosecutor and the House. In the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, this is not the case. It is either based on the principle that one does not have to contribute to one's own conviction, or it does not guarantee that the investigation will serve to unlock the truth. Is that truth still gonna be found? At the same time, it must be made very clear that reporting a suspicion of wrongdoing at the House for whistleblowers cannot lead to the exclusion of criminal proceedings if a person has committed criminal acts. The House and the Public Prosecutor's Office both have their own responsibilities. For the Research Council for Security, another investigating body where the tension field is similar, a clear article is therefore included in the law. This offers a better, clear, recognizable and legal solution to the tension field. I therefore urge the proposers and the Minister to see whether this tension can be resolved in a similar way. So it does not have to be in exactly the same way, but in a way that more justice is done to the nemo-tenetur principle on the one hand and to finding the truth on the other. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr De Graaf, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Schalk, Mr Ester and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the House wishes to offer advice to whistleblowers and, if necessary, investigate after reporting a suspicion of a failure;]] [[Whereas a whistleblower should not enjoy immunity by making a notification of a suspicion of a failure;]] [[Whereas the proposed protocol of cooperation between the House for Whistleblowers and the Public Prosecutor's Office continues to be tense, since a whistleblower cannot be expected to cooperate in his own conviction, which may hinder the discovery of the truth;]] [[Whereas a similar field of tension has been chosen by the Security Research Council for a clear legal framework;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to ensure that the legal framework for the information position of the Public Prosecutor's Office in respect of the House for whistleblowers is comparable to that of the relevant provisions of the National Security Research Council Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33258-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u5	In addition, I agree with Mr De Graaf's question on the objections raised by the main advisor to the applicants on this point. I hope that together we can come up with an amendment to the bill, which will give the House for whistleblowers an effective investigative function. I believe that the proposals on these two points can lead to a better and more effective way of working for the House and that they can also prevent problems in the future. However, these are not points for my group which should await further implementation of this law. The Christian Union can agree to the current bill and hopes that the Minister will come forward with good proposals to supplement the law at a later date, after acceptance and entry into force, on the basis of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. We discussed this bill for a very long time and seven points of criticism were raised a few weeks ago. The first two concerned some technical shortcomings and Article 7. The Minister has promised that he will improve it with a repair law. There were three points the VVD attached very much to. They concerned the accumulation of supervision and the accumulation of research, the lack of openness of research results and the lack of legal protection in the decisions taken by the House for whistleblowers. The Minister has promised that he will pay extra attention and, if necessary, intervene in the coming period, until the evaluation. That's enough for us. We are following developments up to the evaluation with attention. Then there are two points left. They have already been mentioned by Mr De Graaf and Mrs Bikker, and Mrs Bikker has tabled two motions. These issues concern the position ofzzp'ers, trainees and volunteers and the relationship to criminal law. As far as the first is concerned, the Minister in his letter from, I believe, 15 February indicated that he would follow the practice and that, if he identifies bottlenecks, he would do something about it. If the Minister says so, we'll take into account that he does. That means that we agree with the content of the motion on this point, but in our opinion she is asking for something that the Minister has already promised in his letter. That is why we will not vote in favour of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u7	Although I would very much like to have Mr Schouwenaar sitting next to me in the bench, I think he is now over-identifying the motion with the letter. He acts like the motion is actually saying what the minister says in his letter. However, the Minister makes it very clear that he keeps his finger on the wrist and that he will make legal protection equal if problems arise. However, the motion says that all whistleblowers, apart from that, deserve equal protection and that therefore the ban on harm must apply to all. It may still be that Mr Schouwenaar greatly appreciates the Minister's letter. It's possible. However, I do not think he should identify the motion with the Minister's letter. At least that wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u8	No, the motion cannot of course be identified by the Minister's letter. The motion is a response to the question raised at the time. Mrs Bikker leaves a little more room for the Minister, who he may not use as much as she likes, but in the end he will have to do it later. That is what we have focused primarily on. We have the confidence that he will do so that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u9	For the sake of clarity, the motion does not ask for the finger to be held on the wrist and to wait for something to go wrong, but for an adaptation of the legal regime so that legal protection is there for all whistleblowers, whether they are employed or not. That's a difference from holding the finger on the wrist. I'd like to mark that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u10	That is correct, as Mrs Bikker says. However, the Minister also states that he will not do what she asks directly, but offers the finger on the wrist as an appropriate alternative. I'm assuming he'll act as soon as he feels something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u11	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u12	Then we also have the order of things. There was a letter from the minister saying finger on the wrist. There's a motion that says not just a finger on the wrist, but legal protection for all. I hope, of course, that the Minister will be sympathetic to this motion, Mr Schouwenaar also mentioned the feelings of the Minister and that he will embrace her. So this is what the motion calls for, so not to say again: I have written such a beautiful letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u13	He has also explained very well that it is not so easy to align these legal positions. We consider that to be a more than acceptable argument on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr Schouwenaar reminds me a little of someone who says it's nice that someone else says he's going to put out when there's a fire, when the proposal is to prevent the fire. He says, "You don't have to, because if there's a fire, you can put it out. Of course, he'll have to know. He says it's not easy, but I'm asking him to respond to the advice point whistleblowers' proposal. That has designed a provision that shines in its simplicity. Why can't it be introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u15	I have no longer explicitly included the opinion of the Advisory Point Whistleblowers in the consideration, because it was simply too late. When it came, there was no possibility to incorporate it into the lyrics anymore. We have to do it with the Minister's response. I see that Mr De Graaf has the opinion on hand, but I do not have it in my head. I am afraid that not only will we start talking along each other, but we will end up with that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u16	The letter is dated 10 February, so that's about three weeks ago. I know that we as First Members of Parliament take our time and want to be satisfied, but it must be possible to read such a letter in three weeks. That letter also refers to previous letters to the Lower House, which are also included in the legislative dossier. It is simply proposed that what is regulated in the Civil Code for the employee on a contract of employment should now also be included in the House of Whistleblowers Act for others than those on a contract of employment. It is exactly the same wording, namely that you should not be harmed when you report in good faith and properly an error. So my question is again why it is so complicated to include it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u17	Mr De Graaf is now asking me to explain a statement from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u18	No, Mr Schouwenaar. You have just made it clear that you do not wish to support the motion. I therefore ask for an explanation. Why don't you want to, while the option the motion suggests is so simple?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u19	I just gave that explanation. I can't help but over and over again. In our thinking, it is exactly what the Minister says, and it cannot be straightened with one stroke of pens in one movement. There are some complications, some different legal positions. Several ministries are also involved. That the Minister would prefer to keep his finger on the pulse, just as the question of what he feels is that he will act on matters and that he will intervene if necessary, is enough for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u20	That's what I understand. For me, the fact that several ministries are involved is really a new argument against legislation. It's too complicated, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u21	No, but it's too complicated for a repair bill, and that's what's being asked. But, yes, I'm getting in a position to stand up for the Minister. That might be a little too much honor. You do not see my minister's career as such, I see you, Mr De Graaf. Anyway, I have to live with that. I would like to move on to the relationship with criminal law, the second point. That is a little more complicated or more complicated, I have to say now than the previous one. This bill, I say very briefly, gives the whistleblower who has also been guilty of criminal offences, or at least suspected of such offences, a right of silence. It's good he doesn't have to incriminate himself. That's how it fits into our system. However, his colleagues do not have that right to remain silent. They'll have to speak. The D.A. also has access to those statements and to other evidence that may be related to them. That may lead, though it does not have to be, to the whistleblower eventually being able to face a conviction, and that may lead to it again, it does not have to be that participation in investigations by the House's investigation department will not be very large. You can see that as a problem. The solution provided for in the second motion was in one of the previous concepts an arrangement in accordance with Article 69, first paragraph of the National Security Research Council Act. That later became "comparable with" to provide a little more space. The fact remains that the whistleblower has a duty to speak on the basis of that regulation and therefore the prosecution does not have access to that data either. That's possible, but it doesn't have to lead to impunity from the whistleblower. We do not want that consequence. We do not agree with the substance of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u22	Mr. Chairman. It is an honor, but no pleasure to speak on behalf of my colleague Marleen Barth. It is not a pleasure, because, of course, we would have preferred her to be here in good health, also to conclude this fine initiative proposal on behalf of the PvdA Group. I'll do my best to do her some justice. We would like to thank the authors and the Minister for their second-term replies and for the letters they sent in mid-February. These have clarified a number of issues. For the Labour Party, these letters are grounds for submitting the motion by Mr Bikker of the Christian Union on the extension of the target group. My group also welcomes the fact that the ban on discrimination under the law will apply not only to permanent workers, but also to workers, trainees and volunteers. With regard to Mr Bikker's second motion on the desirability of legislation on the relationship between the House for whistleblowers and the Public Prosecutor, we await with interest the Minister's reply. For us, the ban on harm is in itself a reason to be positive about this bill, although we are shocked by the limited justification that both the proposers and the minister have so far given for this ban on harm. Also in the letters they do not go much further than the words that the Minister spoke in the First Chamber in the first term: the ban on harm is more explicit than the duty of good employership already included in the Civil Code. That can't be all, can it? I'd like to get a little richer explanation. The key question is whether an explicit ban on the use of whistleblowers will actually lead to greater protection in the future. Mr Van Raak stated in his earlier terms that he did not want people to be fired because of whistleblowing. My group fears that this is an illusion. Whistleblowing quickly leads to disturbed working relationships. There will be few judges willingly to maintain such disturbed relationships. As far as we are concerned, therefore, it is a question of how people are dismissed and whether, thanks to a ban on discrimination, the judge will conclude more quickly that there is an unjustified dismissal. If that is not the case, it seems that whistleblowers are better protected by this bill, but in practice that protection is a wash nose. My group does not feel much about sending whistleblowers with just an idea of better protection. On behalf of my group, therefore, I am making a final attempt today to see whether the ban on harm actually leads to better protection of whistleblowers in relation to the provisions leading to good employership in the current legislation. Will the proposers and the minister explain that? Protection of whistleblowers is important and must therefore be something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. It feels a bit like we're playing in injury time and the reserve bank is showing up, because like Mr Postema, I'm also speaking on behalf of a colleague, Mrs Vos, who is currently abroad. In the first few years of the debate, my group, through Mrs Vos, has already indicated that it supports the legislative proposal of the initiators in principle. My group did have a few more questions. It thanks for the answers that have been given to them so far. My group, too, has difficulty with a single part of the proposal before us and is in line with what has been said. The law makes it possible for the Public Prosecutor to obtain the information that the House collects for whistleblowers during his investigation. This leads to the possibility that the prosecution will prosecute a whistleblower for facts he or she has brought forward on his or her own initiative. In my group's view, this violates the principle that no one has to cooperate in their own condemnation. We fear that this will lead to a higher threshold for whistleblowers to report and provide information. For this reason, we support the motion of the Christian Union, signed by several parties and by us, to achieve a protocol similar to that used by the Security Research Council. We ask the authors of the bill once again to continue to look very critically at the protocols in which agreements are made with, among other things, the Public Prosecutor's Office and to keep an eye on whether whistleblowers are sufficiently protected in practice. As far as my group is concerned, this is an important part of the assessment in five years' time, although it is not just a matter of looking at it, but also during the journey. There is a need for a thorough examination of whether this point is adequately addressed. I am curious to hear the words of the initiators in this matter and what the Minister intends to mean in this regard. My group also supports the motion calling for people without employment to be protected as well as civil servants and workers. My group believes that there is no reason to excludezzp'ers, volunteers, trainees or anyone who identifies these abuses from protection. We would like to hear whether the cabinet intends to come forward with repair legislation in this area. Despite improvements proposed in motions for resolutions, my group considers it important to give its support to this bill anyway, trusting that the motions will be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the House for whistleblowers and is not happy with the fact that its organisation is further delayed by this third deadline. Speaking of which, I would like to share with you the concerns of a number of experts and stakeholders. I ask the Cabinet to remove these concerns as soon as possible. Today, Ariane Kleijt reported in De Telegraaf that the law, which has been discussed here with great approval, could silence the whistleblower. The reasoning was as follows: anyone who is about to report to the House for whistleblowers may experience the problem that he should remain silent from that moment on in the interest of the investigation. This means that he can no longer go to the press, which in turn means that the purifying effect of the press can be ignored by the whistleblower. Attorney Anja Hoffmans, who assisted a whistleblower who brought out information about unsafe mosque internationaties, then reached that this municipal official had to be rehired on the orders of the judge, partly under pressure from the media attention. This lawyer doubts that the judge will make such a decision again at the time when the official concerned would have gone to the media instead of going to the House for whistleblowers. Those who do not go to the House for whistleblowers may in this way have less rights than in the old situation. From now on, the whistleblower will have to wait and see what the House of whistleblowers will do with his report. However, it is not yet clear whether the House will be a powerful institution from the outset, which will deal with malicious bodies if it does not have adequate private sector research powers and has an annual budget of €400,000. Transparency International shares those concerns. That too is the opinion that with four tons you can hardly make a fist. The lack of scope for in-depth research, while anonymised reports will be produced, presumably based on marginal research, could pose a problem. Media attorney Jens van den Brink also believes that this bill can make the cleansing effect of whistleblowing more difficult in public. Sometimes it just takes a public debate to solve wrongdoings, says Anja Hoffmans in De Telegraaf; not all wrongdoings can be solved behind closed doors. I would ask the authors to reflect on this criticism. I would also ask the Minister if he sees any reason to rush into giving the House more budget and more research opportunities for whistleblowers to prevent the initiative from getting off to a false start. More precisely, I would like to ask the Minister how he intends to prevent a whistleblower who does not yet have faith in a House for whistleblowers which is not yet on its feet, from reporting there and going to the media with his problems and getting zero on the record with the accusation that he should have gone to the House for whistleblowers. How does the Cabinet intend to exclude all other options during the construction phase, which could lead to the failure of the whistleblower by the judge? Apart from the criticism that has now been voiced, my group remains of the opinion that it is a good thing to start facilitating whistleblowers, preferably as soon as possible. But let it be a firm start immediately and not a start in which, during the construction of the House for whistleblowers, the possibilities for whistleblowers are limited. It's up to the Cabinet not to let that happen. I would ask the Minister to make a commitment that, right from the coming financial year, there will be room for giving the House for whistleblowers the solid backbone it deserves and needs. Finally, the position of thezzp'ers. Of course, it is important to settle this issue properly, especially where they have in many cases replaced employees. But don't let the better in this case become the enemy of good: don't let this criticism stand in the way of an early start of the House for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, we had a long debate in this house about the Wet Huis voor bellblowers. I mentioned this at the time a special debate, because all parties seemed to agree on the need for this law and on the need for good support and guidance for whistleblowers. All parties also recalled the long process of this initiative proposal: ten years now. The proposers were also rightly complimented, because they had incorporated the mountain of homework that the First Chamber had given them in May 2014 so well into the proposal. We all agreed that the amended own-initiative proposal was much better than the previous one in 2014. In short, the debate for a long time had the impression that it would be a problem-free handling and that the quarters of the House for whistleblowers could quickly get to work in order to make the introduction possible on 1 July. Gradually, however, the debate took a strange turn. Some parties continued to insist on the ban on harm, which they considered should also apply to volunteers and trainees. The proposers made it clear that all categories of workers, including volunteers and trainees, could go to the House for whistleblowers to report a failure. But the ban on harm is simply a result of an employment relationship. It is different for volunteers and trainees, simply because in their case there are no major financial consequences if they are no longer able to stay with the company or the institution after a failure has been reported. But it was not necessarily a question of financial consequences for the roommates. Volunteers can indeed be disadvantaged, because the loss of volunteer work that is one's lust and life can be very profound, said the colleague of the PvdA. The fact that the new law is not at all adapted to this interpretation of disadvantage, namely emotional damage, should be corrected by the Minister in a repair law. They pretended it was merely a textual change, but proposers and ministers have been very clear: such a interpretation would not fit into the current House of Whistleblowers Act, as it stands. They made that clear during the debate and then in a letter. Because they did not get what they wanted, some parties sent in on a third term, so that the vote was postponed. That with these two weeks of delay they put the entry into force of the new House at risk on 1 July, they waved away with the careless remark that the House should only start two weeks later. Potential whistleblowers can wait a while. That is an attitude that my party finds incomprehensible. The PVV won't do it. We will vote in favour and we are pleased to hear that most of the other parties will do the same, so that the House for whistleblowers can open its doors on 1 July and provide expert advice and indispensable support to all those brave people who will be whistle-blower in the future and thereby make society a little better for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u26	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Are the initiators able to respond immediately? That's the case. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Raak,
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. Most of the questions have been asked to the Minister. The motions are addressed to the government, so I'll be brief. That's what I said last time, but that was a terrible failure. I'm gonna do my best. I would like to thank all those who have spoken and those who have not spoken today. I would also like to thank the President very much for having been able to do so in such a short time. Mrs Van Weerdenburg has pointed out why this was so important. Many questions have been asked, as has been said, to the Minister. It is our job as proposers to put it right again, how we have done it, especially on the points on which everyone has asked questions, namely thezzp'ers and the public prosecutors. The law states that the employer must not penalise the worker as a result of the in good faith and proper notification of a suspicion of a failure during and after the treatment of this law to the employer or the competent authority for that purpose. That can be the inspection, the supervisor, the organisation where is reported or the employer, anything. We then extended the concept of workers to cover all categories of workers, i.e. employees and all the other categories mentioned. The Minister said last time: all these people can therefore appeal to the House for whistleblowers, report the suspicion of a miscarriage, get advice and support and ask for an investigation into the miscarriage. It is very important in this context that they also have the possibility of an investigation. That is of great importance to the person of the whistleblower, whatever his employment relationship. In any case, that report to the detection of a failure, i.e. the whistleblower, can be inserted into a possible procedure to be carried out. In doing so, the judge will also assess the standards of reasonableness and fairness. He will include this report in his consideration. Mr Postema specifically asked what the legal added value of a ban on harm, as contained in the bill, was. That ban has a legal added value as it lays down how the principle of good employership should be applied in the event of careful whistle-blowing. Without this provision of law, this would have to crystallise in case law. It therefore provides, as we have now arranged, the desired clarity and legal certainty and thus prevents recourse to the courts. That's important. What we want with this House is to prevent people from going to court as much as possible. In the literature, too, the legal added value of the ban on abuse of the law is recognised. I would like to refer to the articles of Mr. Govaert and Mr. Helstone in the Pre-Opinion of the Association Trade Law "Clockblowers in perspective," reflections on corporate governance, (legal) labour law, private law and criminal law in the light of the bill House for whistleblowers. That's a wonderful advice. I saw it on most of the spokesmen's benches. Chapters 5 and 6 indicate that this added value is indeed there. I'm not gonna read it to you, because I wouldn't do the president any favors. I would also like to refer to the article by the attorneys, Van den Brink and Mr Jurjens, on the protection of whistleblowers under Article 10 of the ECHR. They write on page 24 that the dismissal protection laid down in this initiative proposal will undoubtedly entail additional protection. For a long time we have thought that whistleblowers in the private sector would be sufficiently protected by the concept of "good employership" in the Civil Code. We also see that case law is developing in the right direction, partly because of the discussions on this bill that have been going on for ten years, but we have nevertheless established a specific ban on the protection of whistleblowers. This gives concrete meaning, specific colouring, to the concept of "good employership" for the benefit of whistleblowers. The judge may examine this concrete interpretation rather than make a balance of interests on the basis of a more general standard of good employership. This specific arrangement provides clarity for all parties. I would like to stress once again that, in our view, it is also expected to have a preventive effect. We do not want the courts to be involved; we want them to be ahead of us. In addition to the lawyers I mentioned earlier, I would also like to refer briefly to the cabinet letter accompanying the evaluation report to report safe wrongdoings at the work of 27 October 2014, which shows that the position of the reporter requires further attention. About one third of the reporters have only had negative effects from a report. In addition, there appears to be a great deal of ignorance in the field of legal protection. More than a third of workers do not know whether legal protection is provided. It is therefore very important that adequate and regular information be provided by individual employers to the employees they employ. The house will also play an important role in this. But that's not enough. This specific ban, as we have included in the legislative proposal, is part of this. Perhaps a plethora: for officials, the already existing ban on abuse is extended in the Civil Service Act to whistleblowers. We believe that, if you look at the package of measures in this law, this will also contribute to cultural change. Organisational culture and reporting infrastructure are important for a policy. This also includes an explicit ban, and for everyone, for employers and employees, in this law. The motions are addressed to the Minister. At this stage, I think it would be clearer to leave it to the Minister to give an opinion on this. In response to the comments made on the relationship between the house and the Public Prosecutor's Office, I would like to explain, on behalf of the petitioners, why we have arranged it this way and how we have dealt with it. Article 8 (3) of the law explicitly states that a judgment or recommendation of the house............................................................................................................................................................................................................ Article 10 (2) for the public sector and Article 13 (6) for the private sector lays down the principle of non-discrimination. This states that the provision of information or the submission of documents to the investigation department of the house may be refused if a person would thereby expose himself or one of his blood or related persons etc. to the danger of a criminal conviction in respect of a crime. It is not, therefore, as Mr Lintmeijer said, that you are forced to cooperate in your own condemnation. On the contrary, there is an explicit right to change. What's the difference with the National Security Research Council? It does not include such a right to be changed during the investigation phase. Witnesses have no right to remain silent. Why not? That is because the Security Research Council must be able to provide the best possible picture of the events, the accident or the disaster. For this, the Research Council obviously needs as complete a picture as possible and as much information as possible. You can't change there; you have to answer. On the other hand, Article 69 (1) of the Reichswet provides that, inter alia, reports of the Research Council cannot be used as evidence. That's how the witnesses are protected, at the back of the investigation. An article similar to Article 69 is not included in the Bill House for Whistleblowers, because we do not believe that it was necessary, since it includes all the right to be changed during the investigation phase. That is the balance that we have made. Mrs Bikker was quite right to point out the tension between an investigation into a miscarriage and criminal prosecution; the continuation of a miscarriage. There's a tension between them. Whatever way you choose, whether you choose this way, which is also practice at the OIO research institute, or that of the Research Council for Security: it is a choice. We have chosen that it is in the public interest that a proper investigation should be carried out into the social situation, but that it is also in the public interest that criminal prosecution should not be made impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u28	First of all, the motion for a resolution does not in any way make criminal prosecution impossible. On the contrary, that is what the public prosecutor's principle of opportunity is about, and we must keep it that way in this country. But the point that an important advisor has also made of the proposers is that in many cases it will be quite difficult for a whistleblower to reveal a miscarriage without getting himself into trouble. The underlying question then is to what extent truth finding will take place and how useful the whole research function of the house becomes when the whistleblower is thus restricted to contribute to the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u29	I'm a member of the House of Representatives and I'm always inclined to take care of things. That's why they hired us. This type of investigation will show a difference between an investigation by the D.A., an investigation by the Security Research Council and an investigation by the House. Those are other types of investigations. But each individual case will also be different. In the run-up to such an investigation, the whistleblower will examine the extent to which he himself was involved in the miscarriage and to what extent he himself may have a responsibility for it. In a lot of cases, probably most of them, they won't, but in some of them they will. Then it has to do with how much you are involved and to what extent you have responsibility. For example, did you file a report before you were forced to do so because of a criminal investigation, or not? Or have you done that before? Our expectation is that the judge will eventually consider those cases as well. This will be different per investigation and a whistleblower will have to be advised differently in each investigation. That is why we have included in the bill that someone should not incriminate themselves; someone does not have to cooperate in the prosecution. This may restrict the House's investigation in a number of cases. But on the other hand, if you took care of it like you're doing now at the Security Research Council, you might be imposing unnecessary restrictions on the criminal investigation. Mrs Bikker outlined this tension field and we gave this answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u30	In fact, the proposers say that if a whistleblower himself was also "strong with his fingers in the door," he shouldn't report a miscarriage, because he will always have to incriminate himself, as the proposers call it. I am referring to the Nemo-Tenetur principle, because I think that is a better word, but we have already talked about this in the first period. The second point is: is it about the truth finding or not? I think that's the core of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u31	I advise people in the future to go to the House. The House will soon see if you are a whistleblower or not. If you have a labor dispute with your boss, you go to the union or to the judge. If you're a whistleblower, you'll be advised in that trial. There is therefore a review of what is possible your position in relation to the miscarriage. So you will be advised individually. Our experience is that in by far the majority of cases there will be no problem, because someone is not involved in the miscarriage in such a way that it can have criminal consequences. If that could be the case, a reporter could be advised. That is why we are very pleased with the wall, the separation that has now been quite rightly made between advice and research, which was one of Mrs Bikker's homework assignments. The whistleblower, the detector will be advised prior to the investigation. The advisers can say: if there are questions like this, I would not answer them. I do not know whether this is always beneficial for the research, but it is also a question of what research we want to do in the field of tension outlined by Mrs Bikker in which we are sitting. Her second question was, is there a truth finding or not? Yeah, there's truth. This also applies to the investigation by the OVV and the investigation by the D.A. We all do truth finding, but not for the same purpose. The purpose of the House's investigation for whistleblowers is to map out the error and make recommendations to take it away. The House must be able to carry out sufficient research to identify the situation and to make recommendations to remedy the situation; that is the essence. That is why we, as proposers, have great hopes for the co-ordination protocol. Professionals of the House will make agreements with professionals of the D.A. about this. These agreements will also be submitted to the government. There is no doubt that we can understand that. If it turns out that the professionals aren't coming out of it, I don't think it will be, also in view of the letters we received from the College of Attorney General, then it's time for politics, but I think we should first give the floor to the professionals. I hope that the President will also give the Minister the floor soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. Apart from the two issues raised in a point of order, two questions have been put to me. The PvdA Group asked: what exactly is the ban on harm? Mr Van Raak has already answered that question. For the sake of clarity, I agree with what Mr Van Raak has said on this point. It is also in line with what I have already reported in writing and in the first and second term of the government. I believe that a ban on discrimination in the law should make more explicit what is implicitly decided in the good employership, and that, in the case of judicial review, it might provide a slightly better legal protection than referring only to the legal protection that is implicitly decided in the good employership or should in any case be. I expect that will be the case. Mr Koffeman asked a question referring to an article in the Telegraaf. I noticed that even without his question when I read the paper. This seems to indicate a contradiction between going to the media and reporting to the House for whistleblowers. There is no contradiction. It doesn't say that you shouldn't turn to the House for whistleblowers and that you shouldn't ring the bell in the audience, too. The intention of the law is, of course, that people do not need to seek publicity, because they also have the opportunity, in the House's secrecy, to denounce a social error for whistleblowers, but that in no way deprives them of the right to do so. I therefore contradict the fact that there is a contradiction. Fresh two is as if it is wise. I can imagine that someone will deal with the matter before they come out with it, but they will not lose any right when they turn to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u33	It is not so much about the loss of rights as about the fact that a House for whistleblowers under construction can place whistleblowers in the short term before the next dilemma. If I go to the House for whistleblowers, I'll have to wait for the procedure for a while and then my momentum may be lost and I can't go to the media anymore. If I go to the media and not to the House for whistleblowers and then I go to the judge, then the judge might as well ask: why didn't you go to the House for whistleblowers? Lawyers of whistleblowers express the fear that if they do not go to the House for whistleblowers under construction, with a small budget and without the possibility of their own investigation, people will soon forfeit the right to get rehabilitation, because the judge says you did not go to the House for whistleblowers, so I don't see why you should get your job back. Transparency International shares that fear. I asked that question and the Minister has not yet answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u34	I believe that the initiators have already made it clear in the debate in the House of Representatives that it is an additional facility which in no way interferes with the rights that people naturally already have. So I do not share the concern that the establishment of the House for whistleblowers would deprive people of a right. Nor is it the intention of the judge at any time to say: you are inadmissible or your position is weakened, because you have not turned to me through the House for whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u35	I think it is important for the history of law to be included in the Acts that it should not be the intention for anyone who goes to the media and not to the House for whistleblowers to be heard from the judge on the basis of the history of law and the possibilities: had gone to the House for whistleblowers; now that you have not done so, you have no right to rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u36	I am glad that this question was put by Mr Koffeman and that I was able to answer it. Then I come to the two motion-bikker c.s. The first motion concerns the ban on harm to workers other than employees. Before giving my opinion on this matter, let me refer to the argument I gave in first and second terms and in writing as to why the system of this law lays down the disadvantages in relation to the statutory rights that people have either as employees or as civil servants. That's the system of this law. Since it is the question for trainees,zzp'ers and volunteers what exactly these rights are, it is not easy to define the disadvantage in relation to that basic level of rights. That's the underlying logic of this law. However, the proposers are not asking for this law to be amended, but for a new law to be established. That is my first comment. The second comment I make is that there has not yet been any administrative consultation with, for example, the unions ofzzp'ers such as FNV Self-employed and ZZP-approved. It seems to me to be a good thing that this is happening, especially since they still have some reservations about such a ban, as I understand from the media, because, as I said, I have not had any administrative consultation with them. I would consider it appropriate to discuss these comments with them. I have already promised Mr De Graaf and Mrs Barth in the first term to keep the finger on the wrist. That is how I said it at the time, but I would like to go a step further. When the House starts, I would like to give it the explicit question of identifying where there is a real disadvantage of non-workers or could arise against which a ban on harm could possibly be used to generate a weapon. If I promise to do so, I must, of course, consult with the colleagues responsible for these sectors. In interns, that's OCW, because that's about education. The volunteer has the lead at VWS. With zzp'ers it is the colleague of SZW. I will then, in consultation with them, make a legislative proposal, if necessary. If I may read the motion in this way, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. I might add another step to that. We have discussed the review in five years' time, but in any case I will come back to the Chamber within a year with a legislative proposal or with an explanation as to why it might have to be resolved in a different way than by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u37	But the Minister still does not answer the question as to why the ban could not already apply to these groups. It is logical, of course, that when he makes a bill about certain groups, he goes into consultation with those groups and with the ministries. That's the job of a minister when he makes legislation. It is requested that all whistleblowers have uniform legal protection. Of course, there is a difference between whistleblowers, but the legal protection they should be able to count on can be the same, can be in the same legal title. There is also a clear opinion on this from the Advice Point Whistleblowers. Why I can't do that, I'm still missing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u38	Mr De Graaf, do you have a subsequent question? Or would you like to wait for the Minister's answer first? It's gonna be this last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u39	I note that, in the third term, there is a novelle here concerning the Whistleblowers' Wet Huis in which workers and civil servants are prohibited and not for other categories. Mrs Bikker asks why that is, but in a way you come up with a repeat of it. I have just explained, but also on previous occasions, why I do understand that it is decorated in this way. In fact, it refers to the rights which are legally enshrined in the Civil Code and in civil service law. So it is more than a simple repair of the bill to do something else with it. Anyway, Mrs. Bikker sees that advantage with me. Once again, I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber, with the reading I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u40	The Minister is not going to answer my question. I have clearly asked why legal protection is not the same for all whistleblowers, regardless of the legal workers' rights they have. That's not the Minister's answer. He goes back to all sorts of things from the past. I'm not interested in that right now. I'm talking about the current question of why.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u41	I'm trying to listen carefully and give a good answer. Mrs Bikker wants legal protection to apply to all whistleblowers, regardless of what workers' rights they have. However, this motion is about whistleblowers who do not have workers' rights. It could be a soccer coach on Saturday afternoon who works as a volunteer somewhere and denounces a social disorder. This person is received by the House for whistleblowers. He's getting advice. He can also enter into an investigation, which will fully analyse and visualise the social situation in question. But when you say that he should not be harmed, the question is: in what right is he not? So what exactly is the right of that soccer coach who's on the field on Saturday afternoon? That is why I say that we need to pay close attention to this before we adopt that ban in the form of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u42	I hear the Minister now saying that he should talk about it with the unions ofzzp'ers and so on, as well as with colleagues from different ministries. Of course, the latter is true, because the Minister also speaks on behalf of the government. However, there is a proposal from the Advisory Point Whistleblowers. That is quite simple: a text similar to that in the Civil Code is included in this law and that applies to anyone who is not a contract worker. It is already dealt with separately for civil servants. The Minister may ask what it adds, but my question is: what would be the objection to the existence of such a provision? This Chamber is asking the Minister to include that in the repair law. It's just that provision, so it's not that complicated. Would it not result in judges, if there is a case, having an additional provision on which they can base their judgement? That provision is: there should be no disadvantage in any form whatsoever. That disadvantage can be different for the soccer coach than for a volunteer, an intern or azzp'er who has a longer running assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u43	Mr Postema, does your question follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u44	Yeah, it fits in. I hear the Minister say that he is leaving the vote to the Chamber and that he is taking the motion to his colleagues to examine the need and added value. I'll ask the Minister to turn it around. Let him say: I will leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber, I will get to work on it and I will make sure that the extension of the target group actually takes place. If the implementation of the motion turns out to be actually impossible, then we would like to hear it back from the Minister. That's my idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u45	That is why I have also said that I will leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. It's asking for a new law. Mr De Graaf just used the word "repair" but it is not. This bill will, I hope, be passed by the Chamber. For a new law, advice must first be sought from the Council of State and then the House of Representatives must give an opinion on it. I have undertaken to understand myself with those who need to be consulted before we come up with that bill, for example the FNV association ofzzp'ers, from which I have heard critical noises so far. I do not want to say that they are decisive, but that seems to me to be the way forward. On that note, I would like to leave the opinion on the motion to the Chamber. A bit different is the motion under letter J, in which Mrs Bikker notes that there is a similar tension at the Research Council for Security. The motion therefore calls for a proposal so that the legal framework for alignment with the prosecution becomes comparable. Mr Van Raak also said this. I wouldn't advise you to do that. In the Rijkswet Onderzoeksraad voor veiligheid, all emphasis has been placed on getting the job done. Everything has been made subordinate to that. No one should have any reason not to provide full information that can shed light on a disaster like that in the Bijlmer or any other major event. That is why there is no right to remain silent. One must speak. On the basis of the Nemo-Tenetur principle, which Mrs Bikker has also put forward in her terms, it cannot be that one is incriminating oneself. That is why it is laid down in that law that the information and files collected by the Security Research Council cannot be requested by the Public Prosecutor. It's been done on purpose. Actually, that's the exception. With the present law, we want to raise social abuses. If someone has done something criminal, then we want the prosecution to be able to do so and that people can be punished, for example, if they have discharged poison or done something else that should not be done. In order to protect the whistleblower then, a right of silence is included in this law, as Mr Van Raak has also read out: the provision of information and the submission of documents to the investigation department may be refused if it would expose the person himself or one of his blood or related persons to a risk of criminal conviction. So that's where it's deliberately decorated in a different way. There the one who is heard has the right to say: I do not tell, because then I would burden myself. The downside of that is that there is no reason why the D.A. wouldn't use that information when it would then want to start a criminal trial. That has been a conscious choice. At an earlier stage, the College of Attorneys-General has also expressly said that you should start a House for whistleblowers, but we do not wish that to interfere with the duties we have to pursue criminal offences. That was the intention of the initiators, and I support them in that. I would add that a co-ordination protocol will be drawn up between the House for whistleblowers and the Public Prosecutor. It will set out the precise ways of making agreements on confidentiality. However, I admit directly to Mrs Bikker that this does not replace a legal system, in which this system is consciously and emphatically different from that of the Security Research Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u46	Fortunately, the Public Prosecutor's Office states that it should not interfere, because the prosecution monopoly is there, and that is quite right. That implies that the prosecution will always prosecute if there are criminal offences. That's a good thing. As a result, however, the investigation function of the House for whistleblowers will be very limited, as it will be very difficult to testify to reports involving whistleblowers or direct managers. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether he accepts that the research function is very limited and that the truth finding will be obstructed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u47	No, I disagree. Any intern, anyzzp'er and any member of staff can ask for an investigation and thus also initiate a series of activities that ultimately lead to criminal prosecution of those who have committed a social miscarriage. I think this is an advantage for the whistleblower, because he knows that it is not only concluded that something has gone wrong, but that the information that has come up with can also be used to prosecute those responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u48	One of the key advisors of the initiators said: from my experience it seems to me that few whistleblowers will dare to come forward. The Minister doesn't have that fear at all. Do I listen carefully to him that, as soon as that happens, he will immediately make a legal change?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u49	Other important government advisers are, for example, the College of Attorneys General, the Public Prosecutor and my colleague from V and J. I am speaking on behalf of the entire cabinet, but I would like to emphasise this. I note that from the beginning, the conscious choice has been made that you do not obtain immunity by whistleblowing. By the way, even if you're whistleblower, you don't have to answer every question. Because you don't have to incriminate yourself. So it's a conclusive system. And certainly the authority to which you ring the bells is not protected from criminal prosecution. The precise protocol for this will still have to be adopted, but that dossier can indeed be requested and used. This seems to me to be precisely the intention when it comes to condemning a social failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u50	I think it is about the effectiveness of the law on this point. If I listen to her carefully, Mr Bikker asks the following about the House's research function. If, in practice, it turns out that it is not actually an effective toolbox and therefore little effective use is made of it, is that reason to immediately check whether a more criminal regime is needed, as in the case of the Research Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u51	Let me say that first of all. I would add that I would choose something else to say 'a more criminal regime'. I believe that the regime is not so much more punishing, but simply opts for another system. At the Security Research Council, truth finding is allowed. How exactly did it go? If necessary, the criminality of what has happened should be at the expense of the criminality of what has happened. Here, however, a different choice is made: no, we want to denounce a social error, and if that information can also be used by the prosecutor for criminal prosecution, that is so, and then we do not find it a disadvantage. But my answer to the specific question is: should it become apparent that the pessimists' expectations are correct and that something quite different is happening than the intention, then we must of course return to the legislator. In any case, this is an initiative legislative proposal with a ten-year trajectory in which many people have shed their light on it. Let's do it now. I am also pleased that the Chamber, through this time limit, will ensure that it can now happen quickly. But let's not be afraid to learn from practice either. If there is reason to do so, of course we will come back. That's what I'm telling you. If I'm in that position, I will, but I suppose that goes without saying anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u52	Mr President, I am being challenged by the Minister, who called me a pessimist. That's not usually how I'm known, I can assure him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u53	I didn't mean Mrs. Bikker, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u54	Thank you! It is nice to hear that the Minister is making a commitment that he will keep a close eye on this and that he will intervene if the investigative function is indeed undermined by the fact that people are afraid to report because they are afraid that the prosecution will take place. That, by the way, is the right of the public prosecutor; that is what I keep saying. Only I want that to be a little more concrete. For example, after a year, will he take a look at how things are going? Or after two years? I want that commitment to be given hands and feet, otherwise we will be back in such an exegesis of: when is it serious enough and what exactly is it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u55	Let us commit that to: a year after the House entered into force. Then we'll inform the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u56	I understand that Mr Van Raak wishes to answer one more question that he had not answered. I give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. I made that request while the Minister was still answering. He has provided Mr Koffeman with a very good response on the use of the press. I can only repeat that a whistleblower is not obliged to go to the House for whistleblowers. It's a house. You don't have to go there. You can always go to the media. That freedom exists, but we have now legally regulated it in such a way that dismissal protection, other forms of protection, treatment research and investigations must have a legal basis. They must be linked to an institution. That's how we've legalized it now. We can't take care of all these things if someone just goes to the media. But all roads remain open, even in the future. Mr President, while I am standing here, I would like to thank a number of people. I'll start with the proposers. Mrs Koşer Kaya, Mr Klein, Mr Segers, Mrs Thieme, Mrs Voortman and in particular Mrs Fokke: thank you very much. We've come a long way. In 2006, the Chamber adopted motions. There was a major evaluation in 2008 at our request. In 2010 we started the bill. That was done in 2012. In 2014 we had a majority in the Lower House. In 2014, we didn't have a majority in your room. You've given us a lot of homework. We did that homework afterwards with great pleasure, because the law has gotten better. You have also asked us to seek good cooperation with all those involved in the legislative process. That was not easy, because many of the people involved were initially very critical of this law. We've got them involved, and we've moved in together. Your Chamber also asked us as proposers to cooperate well with the Ministry and with the Minister. You have seen our way of acting today that this has worked very well. I said that last time. The cooperation with this minister was particularly good, and completely different from until 20 May 2014. In this connection, your Chamber played an important role in linking. We've come a long way, and it's about time. I sincerely hope that the House for whistleblowers can begin on 1 July. I can say on behalf of all the proposers that we have fought the long battle with great pleasure and great energy. I hope that the House will play an important role in giving whistleblowers confidence, giving organisations more learning capacity and increasing confidence in our democracy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u58	Thank you. Before I close the debate, I would like to greet Mrs Koşer Kaya, who came in some time ago. When I greeted the other initiators, she was just not there, so here: welcome. I will close the debate... no, Mrs Bikker has another question. To who?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u59	It is up to you, Mr President, because first of all I have a point of order. I've received a commitment from the Minister on the matter of the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's what my second motion was about. On behalf of the other signatories, I would therefore like to continue this motion. The motion therefore does not need to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u60	At Mrs Bikker's request, I propose that her motion (33258, 34105, letter J) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u61	The second point is that I ask the Minister if the first motion on legal protection for all is adopted, to come forward within a month with a letter on how he is going to carry out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u62	Then I ask the Minister to respond to this question before we vote on the bill. We have to get the cathedral back. I want it recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u63	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-01-eerstekamer-8.u64	Thank you. I do think this should be properly recorded, hence the operation with the cathedral. As agreed, the legislative proposals will be voted on immediately. I press the bell and suspend the sitting for a single minute to allow Members to go to the Chamber.
