ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. My 3-year-old boy makes a building once in a while. If something goes wrong or if it doesn't go exactly the way he wants it to, he'll beat up the whole tower, because then he'll be angry. As a father you say: you don't always get what you want; beating up your whole building doesn't really help because then you have nothing at all. I had to think about this when I saw the Minister working with the Organization Law Supreme Administrative Court. He was almost there, but then the Chamber adopted amendments. So it didn't go exactly the way the minister wanted it to. Then the Minister withdrew the whole law. Anything for nothing. The legislative capacity, the unrest in the colleges and the judges and we are back to square one. So the minister threw in his own structure. My son is 3, but this minister isn't. It may be assumed that the Minister is wiser and also has more respect for democratic decision-making in the Lower House. The project's administrative jurisdiction has thus failed. I come to the formation of the national police force, also a structure that really is not yet in place. However, there was more that did not go well in recent times. I refer, for example, to the case law, which is under pressure. The organisation of legal aid in the ZSM method of operation has not been successful. Improving access to justice has also failed. Huge cuts on this have even had to stop the Chamber. I would also mention the major cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch Forensic Institute and the quality of the autopsy not to miss crimes. Two years ago, the SP called for a lot of attention from this place. Nothing has been done about that in the interim. The clearing rate is still around 25. So that's way too low. The number of convicts out there is far too high. My first question to this VVD Minister is: how did you actually feel about it? And we had stuff, a lot of stuff. I mention: the ticketing affair, the drug-criminal deal Cees H., the unjustly through the mire of MH17 professor Maat, the photograph of Volkert van der G. and the debates about terrorist attacks where the information always didn't come to the right place. There have been periods where literally no week went by or there was trouble again. How does the Minister himself look at this? What did all this do to the confidence? The evaluation of six years of VVD at the Ministry of Security and Justice is therefore not good for the VVD. The VVD has badly ensured the rule of law. The VVD hasn't handled our country's security properly. The VVD has not done a good job of trusting the Ministry of Security and Justice and the VVD leaves a risky budget with gaps in it. The latter confirms the General Court of Auditors. The budget is therefore risky. Mistakes can be expected, including from national police and justice. Their own funds have been exhausted in recent years. Why does the Minister do that? How big are these budgetary risks? Why is this minister now presenting new austerity plans, dubious austerity plans? I refer to the payment of a levy by people who are under curate. Yes, millions have become available to do important things, but that extra money is not extra money; less money goes off. It's a bit like you've dug a far too deep pit and expect a pat on the back when you discard a few shovels of sand. The fact that the Minister is good at collapsing his own structures can also be seen in the construction of the national police. The only foundation of this building that still stands like a house is the staff themselves. The plan, which was essentially good, turns out to have been implemented disastrously. Do you remember the promises of the national police? They were: less bureaucracy, more service, better ICT and more agents in the neighbourhood and on the street. Ask a random cop about it. It will indicate that none of these promises have come to fruition. And do you remember the VVD's election vows in 2012? "There's no need to cut back on safety." Promise broken. Another one: "Blue belongs on the street, not behind a desk." Yeah, the VVD does put cops out on the street, just a little too literal. She shuts down 200 police stations and removes 2,500 agents. I don't understand. There are still too few district agents at the moment. The neighborhood agents who are there are still busy with other tasks, while the police should maintain their information position in the neighbourhoods, especially in view of the terrorist threat. This is where the cabinet really fails. Does the Minister recognize that? In order to make it even more difficult for officers to be in their neighbourhoods, the cabinet also closes half of all police stations. Blue is getting more and more out of the neighborhoods. It's often impossible to report them in the neighborhood. Cops themselves say they're losing contact with the neighborhoods. This while accessibility is really essential. It also creates even more dangerous situations for citizens and police personnel themselves, as driving times become longer. Now we hear that the Minister also wants to cut mobility. How much more is going to be saved on mobility? What does this mean for the police fleet? ICT is still not in order in the police. People still have to work with computers from the Flintstone era. The servers are now in need of thorough maintenance. The base is actually a gang. Turning off a video on a desk is just an impossible task. Can the Minister indicate how and when he's going to solve this? Cops are in the front line day in, day out, but they're not trained enough. The initial knowledge of cops is still insufficient. There's a lot of late maintenance. But the cuts in police education are also significant. What's the Minister gonna do to fix this? Fortunately, pressure from the entire opposition got money for the police. The police can keep the store open now. But for everything I just mentioned, there's no money. Innovation to keep up with the bad guys? No money. The reserves of the national police have been drastically reduced and so setbacks can no longer be met. With this, the Minister takes a risk, including financially. Why does the Minister do that? What if the police are going to function properly and start running at full speed? Then the follow-up to the criminal justice chain is not well prepared for this, because the Public Prosecutor's Office has also been severely cut back in recent years. We're asking more and more of them, but we're giving them less and less budget. That's unwise, if you want to catch more rather than less crooks, as the SP wants. I never understood why the Dutch Forensic Institute, the Dutch CSI, had to be cut so hard, especially because there is more and more technically possible. Isn't cutting the NFI so much contrary to the development that there is more and more possible? The cuts on the NFI forced 75 people to leave. Now we need to recruit and train staff again. What a capital destruction! In some cases doubts arise later. A suicide wasn't a felony, was it? The SP believes that the possibilities for next of kin to have the file examined should be extended, in the interests of truth finding and mourning. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, because I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second term. The funding of justice is too tight. Since the VVD delivered the executives for Security and Justice in 2010, fewer cases have been pre-financed than is the result of the agreements. Own funds are now zero, while we know that additional costs are to be expected. The question is particularly important: what does all this do with the quality of justice, the production pressure in the courts and the workload in the courts? Can they still take the time needed for good justice? That's what people in court can expect. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Is there any financial room for future justice? We are talking about socially effective case law that matters, such as the judge of the office and the judge of the administration in the case of divorces. I also like to get a reaction to this. The SP proposes to have a separate discussion about justice, our third state power in the trias politicians. For this reason, the SP has submitted an initiative legislative proposal which separates the budget from the Ministry's budget. The case law is not an implementing organisation. A separate budget is more appropriate to the independent position of the judiciary. Judicial errors are a disaster for the rule of law. Professor Ton Derksen published a book last week concluding that there are many more innocent people in prison than we think so far. The SP thinks we should take this very seriously. In any case, we must make it easier than we are now to recover unjustified convictions. The thresholds are now too high. Firstly, why is the criterion for revision that it should be a novel? Serious doubt about the conviction should be enough to reopen a closed criminal case. Secondly, the SP proposes that a fund be set up to investigate questionable convictions. Money must never be a reason for one person to remain in prison innocently and not the other. Thirdly, a review of judicial error should not take years. It must be subject to deadlines. I would like a response from the Minister to these proposals. Does the Minister share the view that we should minimise the risk of innocent people being detained and real perpetrators remaining free? Access to justice is not a good thing. In the earlier notes Right to justice, the SP argues for lower own contributions and wider income limits for subsidised legal aid. Another important point that also affects small and medium-sized enterprises is that having the right at your side and getting your right are still two different things. For an unpaid claim of €501, an entrepreneur must pay €471 to the Registry. Of course you can't. Paybacks are so rewarded, and that's a bad thing. The SP calls on the Minister to make an additional contribution to this type of claim in the interests of SMEs. After the destruction plan for the prison system there is a huge sword of Damocles over the prison system of even more destruction and even more closures. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Kooiman motion adopted (24587, nr. 666), which requires that prisons should not be closed down or partially closed down? We hear sounds that prisons are still being dismantled halfway. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Due to the demolition policy of this cabinet, there is now a shortage of operational capacity in the prison system. As a solution, security guards are being hired who have never worked with prisoners or seen a prison inside, or are being asked to put more people in one cell. This creates dangerous situations for staff and prisoners. Will the Secretary of State stop taking these bad half measures? When does he come up with a structural solution? What the SP is happy about, of course, is that there seems to be a majority now for regulating the back door of the coffeeshops. Indeed, the majority of the VVD party congress voted in favour of it. That's very good. How does the Minister see that smart regulation? Back to the budget. A great deal is being cut back, such as important subsidies for prevention and hotlines, so that criminals can be caught and victims prevented, and alternatives to traditional judicial proceedings. So the Minister is really scraping a lot, because he doesn't think there is any money for it at the moment, knowing that it will cost more in the long term and will cause more social damage than you are now cutting back. Turn this back. I think this short-term policy is making you miserable. The SP isn't in on this. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments. The SP proposes to continue funding the Foundation's Consumer Disputes Committees, because we believe it is important that consumers can achieve their rights in an accessible and cheap way. We want the Dutch Association for Justice (NVvR) as a critical counterpower of the Ministry not to be weakened, as the Minister wishes, and to continue to give critical advice on legislation. The SP wants to invest more in the Children's Porn Contact Point, because we think it is important that this hotline can track the dramatic increase in reports about child pornography material. With a contribution to sect signal trust, the SP aims to ensure that Sect signal can continue the important work for victims of wrongdoing within sects. The continuation of important work also applies to the UN Special Rapporteur, who ensures that child trafficking, child prostitution and child pornography can be better dealt with. Mr Kooiman and I have put forward proposals on all these important issues. In addition, we have also submitted proposals to ensure that the Communication Point Discrimination Internet is maintained, the subsidy for the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security is maintained and mediation in criminal law continues to exist. We have co-signed these amendments by colleagues Marcouch, Tellegen and Recourt. This was the last time we had budgetary treatment with VVD executives at the Ministry of V and J; really the last time. I say that not only because elections are coming, but also because the Ministry of V and J needs to be split up. This ministry, in this form, with this name ceases to exist, as far as we are concerned. At least I don't want to see the VVD back in this ministry. It's been long enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. You might think that, after so much justified criticism, there is now a very positive story, but unfortunately, that is not the case. I too will ask many critical questions to the cabinet about asylum, the fight against fraud and privacy, although there is certainly a compliment hidden somewhere. Lebanon has been catching more than one and a half million refugees for years. One and a half million refugees! A quarter of the population is refugees there. Kenya has been home to hundreds of thousands of people in the largest refugee camp in the world, Dadaab. Other countries in conflict regions, such as Ethiopia, where members of the Security and Justice Commission were recently, Rwanda and Turkey, are catching massive flows of refugees, both structuralally and occasionally, as well and as badly as possible. Countries such as Lebanon and Kenya look at Europe and see that fortress Europe is closing down ever further. Europe is scared and angry and lets others do the job: as long as fewer refugees come to Europe. Unfortunately, that is also the cynical aim of this cabinet: less, less, less refugees. That's what the Rutte cabinet wants to do. For an important part, the cabinet also succeeds, according to recent figures. Tell me honestly: there is also little to expect resistance from people who are trapped far away in tent camps or, worse, have to survive on the streets. The Turkey deal works in the sense that Europe needs less refugees. Turkey is shooting at Syrians trying to cross the border. Greece has become an open-air prison, where more than 60,000 refugees are unable to move. The issue of refugees shows the failure of the European Union. Instead of working together to solve problems and alleviate suffering, Member States point to each other, turn a blind eye to the EU and put their self-esteem on sale. The government here welcomes the lower influx of the last few months, while I would like us to pay a little more attention to international solidarity. I find it sad, but it is not surprising that a country like Kenya is keeping a close eye on what Europe is doing and, unfortunately, seems to want to follow the European example: it wants to close the camp at Dadaab. The mantra "care in the region is best" is often true. Especially for emergency aid, it's a truth like a Dutch cow. However, many regions burst out of their joints. In this kind of extreme situation, the Netherlands must lead the way and want to resettle more people. I'd like to get a reaction to this. A typical example of how the government tries to ignore the situation in the world as much as possible is the way in which refugees from Yemen have recently been dealt with. On 12 August 2015, a decision and departure Moratorium was established for them. On 7 July 2016, a shocking report was issued on the security situation in Yemen. By the end of April of this year, over 21 million Yemenis needed humanitarian aid. Half of them were kids. However, the decision that Yemenis cannot be returned and should therefore be granted a temporary residence permit under Article 15c of the Qualifications Directive only became known last week. At that time the Yemenis had been in uncertainty in our country for 15 months; they should not have worked or integrated. How is it that there are months between the appearance of the new post and the final decision? What political considerations are behind this? Is the cabinet afraid of a new large influx, like the one from Syria a year ago? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The same uncertainty also applies to the refugees who have been persecuted by the Secretary of State for the past week, who said that the negotiations, better known as the bed-bath-bread negotiations, had failed. What's gonna happen to them now? What the government was quick with was the dismantling of the azc's, the dismissal of IND employees and the cessation of the self-care arrangement. The inflow rates have fallen and the system is dismantled without a change. The emergency shelter had to be kicked out of the ground last year in days and sometimes even in hours. Groups of civilians felt mugged. Refugees were distraught because they had to wait months for their procedure or family reunification. Are we gonna see that again? I hope that the conflict in Syria will come to an end soon, but last week all the hospitals in Aleppo were bombed! All of them! It doesn't surprise me that people are forced to flee. Is the Secretary of State prepared to maintain a spare capacity of 3,000 beds? After all, governance is forward-looking. Yesterday, VVD and PvdA were able to jointly prevent the Chamber from debating this debate, which was requested by Mr Verhoeven, on Erdogan's statements on the opening of borders. They have blocked it, but it is statements that we have to take into account. What will the situation, Secretary of State, look like in the Netherlands if this does happen? In many cases, crime follows money. I ask these questions to the Minister and vice versa. Our attention to financial and economic offences must therefore be particularly high at this time. Last year, the Financial Intelligence Unit reported that files in search services remain because of lack of capacity. The Minister assured me that this has gotten better. Fine! So I lit my own light. I was impressed by the way in which the FIU presented itself to me and I am convinced that very good and important work is being done there. To the Minister, but above all through the Minister, a compliment to the people working in this service! However, it appears that many cases are still a long way from being dealt with and that there is a preference to deal with those cases that are most likely to be dealt with. That is a risk, of course, because not only the simplest things are worth tracking down and checking out. May I have a response from the Minister? The FIU suffers from a capacity shortage. They are equipped with 57 FTEs, but ideally there would be 80. The Minister would look at more capacity for research into terrorist financing by the FIU, but what about money laundering? Let's start with 10 extra FTEs. That's a million dollars, but these people pay themselves back double and square. In the fight against fraud, the cabinet wants to be too often in front of a dime in the first place, for example, take the dirty funding of the Fraudhelpdesk. Why does the cabinet remain so reluctant? Does the Minister himself not see the need and benefits of providing good information to citizens and businesses and to those who have been victims of fraud? May I remind you that we are talking about many billions a year, which not only damages society but also the Dutch tax authorities? Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about privacy. Privacy is of vital importance to all people. We can't live our lives without it. It's one of the key elements of our rule of law that you can't just be followed or bugged, that the content of your mail is secret, and that you know that no one is watching when you're surfing the Internet. But this government has little use for privacy and the privacy of all Dutch people has been under attack for years. The unfocused collection of telecommunications data, the possibility of hacking by search services, the approval of data exchange with the US: that is what the government stood for. She does so all under loud protest from Dutch and European supervisors, because many measures that help to destroy privacy in an attempt to make society safer create more insecurity. Large amounts of data increase the risk of identity fraud. The conscious creation or exploitation of vulnerabilities in software or the destruction of encryption make ICT an easier target for criminals who, of course, communicate with each other in a different way in secret. Is it perhaps because of all this valid criticism from, among other things, the Personal Data Authority that the same authority is being financed with such economy? The General Data Protection Regulation does however examine the impact on the performance of the tasks and the workload of the Authority. This year, the report would be ready. How's that going? Following the report, the Minister would consider whether money could be released by 2018. I think that's too late, and that's why I'm considering a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, too, we have often talked about safety in our country. We talked about the police working with man and power 24 hours a day on that security and about all the other people working to make our country safe and to keep it safe. I refer to the people of the fire department, those of the rescue brigade, those of justice, those of the FIOD, the people of the KMAR and those of customs. I call the boas, the private security guards, the people of the D.A.'s office and so on. I'm bound to miss a lot of them. We have talked about laws that have proved necessary in order to be able to do even more work on tackling crime and crime. And we have talked about important measures in the fight against terror, in order to minimise the risk of an attack in our country. It has been the fight against terror, the threat from a jihadist angle, which has led to our security being at stake at national or international level over the past year. Think of the many times we debated with each other after attacks were carried out in Paris and Brussels, among others. The images of this will be on our retina for a long time to come and make us realize that such an attack could have happened in the Netherlands as well. In addition to the terrorist threat, other developments beyond our borders created an unsafe feeling here at home. Think of the demonstrations in our country that followed the coup in Turkey or think of the asylum problem with the many riots in relation to the arrival of azc's as a result. It is developments that have led people to worry and feel unsafe. The security portfolio is not just a portfolio; the subject is at the heart of our existence. Security is the foundation of our society. People want to be safe and feel safe. They want to live safely, live safely and work safely. That's the point. Especially in these uncertain times when there is insecurity within and beyond our borders, parents want their daughters to be able to cycle safely to school without being harassed, to go to Saint Nicholas's entrance without being trampled underfoot by fighting protestors, elderly people want to be safe on the streets without being robbed, conductors on the train can do their job safely without being harassed, shopkeepers do not want to make a fortress against robberies, fathers with their sons want to safely go to football law and two men in public can walk the streets. It is this sense of security that is under pressure, which is no longer self-evident and for which we must fight. Without security, there is no freedom and security is the most important task of the government. All 17 million people in our country can only enjoy their freedom if their security is in order. It has been said many times: unfortunately, we cannot guarantee this safety. However, we can do everything we can to make our country as safe as possible. And looking back on recent years, we have seen progress in many areas: the crime rates of the so-called high impact crimes have fallen, the comprehensive approach to undermining crime and organised crime is paying off; in the fight against terror, there is a very broad and robust package of measures to minimise the risk of an attack, and in the field of the storage of personal data, laws have been adopted that allow for longer retention of data from potential criminals under strict conditions. Important legislative proposals such as the Computer Crime III Bill and the intelligence and security services will hopefully be dealt with during this cabinet period. Last but not least, this budget adds 450 million for security and for the consolidation and strengthening of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u5	I heard Mrs Tellegen use the word'security' very often in the last few minutes. I think she called it a hundred times. Apparently, the VVD thinks security is important, and so does Mrs Tellegen. I'm glad. Only the VVD started this period on Security and Justice after an election in which she said: you should not cut back on security. So the VVD says that security is the most important thing and that it is not going to cut back on safety. However, in 2013 a press release was issued that more than 1 billion savings in security were made. If the VVD considers security so important, why is there so much savings in the past period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr Verhoeven is well aware of how we started this cabinet period. There was an order to bend 50 billion, as we say in jargon. 50 billion! Each ministry has taken on its responsibilities in this respect. Security and Justice could not say at that time: we are not participating. Why should we cut back on care, but rule out security and justice? Everyone has assumed their responsibilities, so has Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u7	I understand very well that sometimes you face a difficult task when you take government responsibility. The question is why the VVD said very clearly to the whole of the Netherlands in advance: you should not cut back on safety. That's not the only thing. The VVD also said: from now on, punishment for anyone who deserves punishment, and it turns out that in 2015, 12,000 convicts were just out there. Criminals go free because of the public prosecutor's workload. CID's running out of quality. There are all kinds of reports that show that there is no punishment at all for anyone who deserves punishment, and so there is a lot of savings in security from the VVD. So yes, we are here to deal with the budget, it is the last time. Mr Van Nispen said it: happy. I myself am very relieved that this is the last time, but why did the VVD do this? Why say you're gonna give security and then just don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u8	As I said, the Ministry of Security and Justice has also contributed to the 50 billion that this country had to cough up in order to make it financially sound. When I look back at what has happened in the meantime to add that amount again, that is quite a lot. I'll take you through the years. In February 2015 128 million additional structuralally. In November 2015 250 million additional structuralally. In May 2016 48.5 million structuralally added. And now, 450 million more structuralally. So where the ministry could, it actually put money back in.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u9	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u10	This is a bit of a double message. First of all, say that you have to take government responsibility and that you must also cut back on security, that safety that you are talking about and which you think is so important, and that that makes perfect sense. And then say that you returned a lot of money after you made that cut; of course less than you took it off. And who did that come from? Especially by the opposition, which has said endlessly to the cabinet and to the coalition: do something about that security. So let's note that the VVD didn't think security was so important at all, until the opposition to the VVD said: this goes wrong on all fronts. The AIVD, the CID, the neighborhood cop, everyone's short-handed to do their job properly. All those people who are in the front line and Mrs Tellegen always says that they are doing such good work, were not getting enough money. Now the VVD says: yes, we have all made up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u11	And so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u12	I think we should ask each other here to be honest. Mrs Tellegen is talking about an additional 450 million. Does the budget of Security and Justice go up or down net over the years? There's been a billion cuts. Now there's some money coming up. You can't talk about extra money, can you? Then there's still just being cut back, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u13	Words are being put in my mouth. I'm not talking about extra money. I have just said that we have taken on our responsibilities and that we have had a huge task. We all took it on us, including V and J. Where it could have come with money to close the hole again. I note that with this budget there is an additional 450 million for security. So, yes, we're in an upward spiral. We're coming out of a huge financial crisis. I have just listened very carefully to Mr Van Nispen's plea. It makes you spontaneously depressed. In the world he sketches, it's all trouble and misery, we live here in a banana republic and it's incredibly bad, on all fronts, which we're also looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u14	This is very interesting. I have just made 15 constructive proposals to strengthen the rule of law and improve security. I am standing here to put a question to Mrs Tellegen of the VVD. The VVD is responsible for cutting back on Security and Justice in the last few years, but really hard. You did say... you just said it again in your answer: there will be 450 million euros. Then be honest. Tell the whole story. We're not in a rising line. No, we're in a falling line. The budget is going down every year, in total. I want us to be honest about that and to establish that with each other. I would also like to acknowledge the fact that the CDA, D66, the SP and other parties have forced the cabinet to draw out that extra money, because it really could not do so anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u15	I don't know what Mr. Van Nispen is looking for. I said there was a mission that also applied to V and J. It applied to all ministries. That's the responsibility we've taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u16	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u17	That 50 billion mission is not a natural disaster that happens to you, but a political choice. It has been a political choice to cut back on Security and Justice so hard. So don't pretend that happened to us. Don't give up the suggestion that extra money will be added. That's not true. There's been a lot of cuts. That has been a political choice. The VVD continues with that, because no trend is reversed. There's no money. There's a little less money going off. That's the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u18	I'm going on. Mr. Chairman. Is that what we're dealing with? No, absolutely not, because safety is never finished. We want people to actually see it now. We are on the right track in many areas, but new challenges and new security risks are lurking. If it's up to the VVD, we'll continue the fight against terror and do everything we can to combat terrorism, jihadism and radicalisation in the Netherlands. If it is up to the VVD, authority must return to the streets, it is more but also better blue, and we must prepare ourselves firmly for the crime of the future. First of all, the fight against terror. I told you. Over the past year, Europe has been alarmed by a series of attacks. Where our neighbouring countries are only just beginning to take action, the Netherlands is at the forefront. There is a solid package of anti-terror legislation. The core is still: prevent jihad fighters from travelling out. They're gonna beat that, aren't they? Then prevent them from returning. For those who return anyway: lock them up and give them as little room for manoeuvre as possible. This reduces the chance for Dutch jihad fighters to return. The center of gravity is therefore increasingly moving to the home stayers. It is therefore even more important to tackle jihadists and potential radicalisation nests in our country. Over the past year, the VVD has been fighting for all kinds of measures to counter radicalisation and be ahead of it. For example, mosques where radical ideas are preached must be addressed. For example, funding flows from non-free countries to mosques in the Netherlands must be stopped in order to avoid radicalisation with large pockets of money. For example, the black list with names of hate imams can separate the chaff from the corn. We must do everything we can to bring about radicalisation in our country. That is why I am making a proposal here today. Last week there was an article in the newspaper about a mosque in Amsterdam. A police investigation is under way into two board members suspected of radicalisation and jihadism. When I read that, I thought, "What exactly is happening?" What kind of mosque is this? Do the visitors of that mosque know who these directors are? Do they even know what imam they're listening to? When I read a message like that, I'm worried. I think more needs to be done than we are doing now. The cessation of funding flows and the curate setting of a mosque is only the beginning. These are figures who stand with their backs to Dutch society. These are institutions that have a very different view of the Netherlands than the vast majority in our country. These are people who create fear and lay the foundations for radicalisation. You want to fish it out and tackle it. I'm getting to my point. We know the freedom of religion in the Netherlands and that is a great good. Politics is not about what is said in a church or in a mosque. Nor is it about the way in which a movement of faith is organized internally. But we're all about security. All religious movements in the Netherlands do have a form of organisation in which their predecessors are registered and often accredited. But this is not the case within the Islamic community in the Netherlands. Any Muslim can call himself imam. It is a liberal profession, for which no conditions, training requirements or criteria are required. Every imam in every mosque has free play. He's not registered anywhere. There is no authority that has ever officially said: you meet the requirements; you may perform the title imam. I think this is particularly a problem because every clergyman in our country, including an imam, can invoke the right to change. For example, if there is an investigation into funding flows, the imam can rely on the fact that certain information may not be used because it has a duty of confidentiality towards its followers. That would be entirely justified if an imam, like a vicar, rabbi, priest, lawyer or doctor, had an authority that could confirm that it was officially registered and therefore entitled to bear that title. But that is not the case for the imams in the Netherlands. The right to change is a great thing, but if you want to appeal to it, there must be something about it. We must prevent the title imam from being used as a cover. Like I said, the government isn't about faith issues. The only thing I can do from here is, for example, call on the Contact Body Muslims and Government to work on a form of registration. I would also ask the cabinet whether this issue can be taken into account in the revision of the right to change. I would like a reaction from the government on this point. In addition to terrorism, the issue of asylum and the unrest in the Middle East and Turkey have also led to a feeling of insecurity. These international issues lead to polarisation in our country and a division in our society. Unfortunately, this is also evident from the latest threat picture of the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security. In addition to the threat posed by IS, there is a risk of extremism in our country, both from the left and right angles. Just think about that for a second. That's more than a worrying signal. It says something about how the flag hangs in our country. In this polarized context, the police work day in, day out for security in the Netherlands. That brings me to my second point: whether it is the fights around the arrival of azc's or the treiter vloggers and youth gangs that make streets and neighborhoods unsafe, it must be clear to everyone that this cannot be done. Boys of less than 14 years of age seriously affect people's enjoyment of living and sometimes they don't even dare to do a shopping at the local mall. My group has already spoken clearly on this subject: authority must return to the streets. In recent years, Rutte II has adopted numerous laws that contain instruments to act against criminals, assholes, football hooligans and vandals.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u19	I briefly referred to what Mrs Tellegen said about young people, sometimes less than 14 years old. Why does the VVD want to raise the criminal age limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u20	As far as I'm concerned, we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u21	Then you need to look at the budget, because that is what it literally says. It is also stated in the answers to the written questions. Reference is made to the Annex to some note. Basically, it's purely a austerity measure to rake in money. So again the question: why does the VVD want to raise the criminal age limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u22	As far as I know, that is not the case. I know that there has been a WHO Youth in which this has been discussed. This is the subject of another bill from the Secretary of State. I do not know better than that my colleague Brigitte van der Burg is very critical of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u23	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u24	I refer Mr Tellegen to page 53 of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. That toolbox is full. Local government has every opportunity to act and yet this does not always happen quickly and decisively. Too often they try to de-escalate, calm things down. That's what the thugs know that in the district of Burgemeesters in Maassluis scared the hell out of the people. That's what guys in Zaanstad know who threatened NS personnel and spit on bus drivers. The treacherous vloggers in Zaandam know that. The police must have every minute of the day and be given every opportunity to act, 300% supported by the executives and local government. When I say that authority must return to the streets, then the scum that terrorizes a neighborhood should not be given one millimeter of space. Then we should no longer be talking about double standards. Then no one should dance on the roof of a police car, not in Blaricum, but not in Zaandam. It must be clear that everyone is equal before the law, that you have to behave and that the same rules apply to everyone. It must also be clear who is in charge. The cops don't get messed with. We respect the cop on the street who's willing to risk his life for our safety. If he's gonna have to pull his gun, this cop deserves the proper legal protection. The VVD wants to protect the cop better. Peter van Zaalen recently said it nicely when offering a petition on this subject: there is a difference between policemen who have had to use violence during their work and criminals who do so. Where is the bill to settle this, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mrs Tellegen talks about the large toolbox that is filling the cabinet, apparently in the form of all kinds of new laws and measures that the VVD is very pleased with and proud of. That is the way for the VVD to increase security in this country. Think of the Law on Computer Crime III, the Law on Preservation, the Game Act and now again the redesigning of the right of change, the extension of the provisional detention without suspicion or the taking away of the Netherlands. The VVD constantly mentions all kinds of proposals, as proof that the Netherlands is becoming safer. The biggest issue, of course, is implementation in practice. We have often talked about this, but I do not hear Mrs Tellegen now. I think that is an important subject. Due to the way in which all kinds of information is handled, calls are not answered, e-mails are not answered and there are system errors... we have a lot of information that is easily available, not at the right moments. What will the VVD do about it? I think that's more important than all those big words, tough laws and new powers. We just need to make sure the base is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u27	This reminds me of a little debate I had last week with Mr Verhoeven during AO Terrorism. That was right about this. That's what I said. First of all, measures are needed to be able to act. I note that a lot of justified measures have been taken. They are now in the toolbox of, for example, the mayor. That's how he can deal with radicalization. Implementation in practice is, of course, equally important. That's exactly the point I'm making here. We have passed a number of laws that make action easier, but now they must also be implemented in practice. And yes, then a telephone must be picked up and information must be properly shared; I fully agree with Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u28	The VVD masks the fact that a lot of things go wrong in the base all the time. It is doing so by constantly saying: there has been a lot of money in this budget; we all have new proposals, new measures, new laws and new powers. However, everyone says that the threat has increased over the last few months. There would even be a possibility of an attack around the Lower House elections. That kind of thing is said, and at the same time we seem to accept it or we think we should do something about it, that at the most crucial moments there is no contact between the different services and the different organisations. That's impossible, isn't it? Then the VVD has to say something about that to her own minister, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u29	That's what I did. In fact, I remember a piece in last week's newspaper where I qualified the fact that that phone wasn't hired as "sucky." So I do not recognize myself in the image that Mr Verhoeven sketches here. It can, of course, have very far-reaching consequences if something like this goes wrong in practice at the time it matters. That is what we must continue to look at; I agree with Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u30	But what is the VVD going to do in concrete terms to ensure that in the last few months that this Minister of Security is still responsible for all these organisations, there are no unnecessary system errors on that point? What is she going to do to make sure that the base is fixed, so that we know for sure that we don't have to read back in the next incident: we already had the information and it was already in sight, but the portal wasn't opened for a while, the phone wasn't answered or the mailbox was opened after the weekend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u31	This is a bit of an impossible question from Mr Verhoeven. These are mistakes that are made. You can never say: we're going to do this one hundred percent good with all of us. If Mr Verhoeven specifically refers to the phone call we talked about in detail last week, then I say that this was a mistake and this should not have happened. These things happen, however, and the advantage of this is that, in response to this incident, I would like to say once again: that should not have happened, but that would have taken a number of steps to do better in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u32	I would like to return to the point made by Mrs Tellegen before the interruption. She was talking about police officers dealing with charges because, for example, they used violence wrongly. Mrs Tellegen insisted on making haste with a legislative proposal on this issue. At that point, I like to join her, but does she also see the problem that it often takes so long before there is clarity for the police officer involved? Does she hear that from people in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u33	Yeah, we've talked about that before in relation to that violence instruction. It is very unfortunate that an agent, if in the extreme case he had to draw his weapon, has to wait a very long time before he receives the signal, the signal or the letter with the message "you have acted lawfully." So I think it is important to look at that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u34	Fine, but couldn't that go one step further? Could we not say that we are asking the D.A. and the Rijkrecherche at the moment when there are allegations of a police officer who may be on the grounds of violence or because someone has been wrongly detained to deal with the matter as a matter of priority and that we take as a starting point that there is clarity for the officer concerned with three weeks? Then the police officer will not be further hindered in the performance of his duties and will know in three weeks whether it has been good or if anything else is happening. In that case, it will be clear within such a time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u35	I think that sounds very sympathetic and quite right. An agent should be as short as possible in uncertainty in situations like this. I just don't know what's possible and if the D.A. can make it happen if we ask for something like that, but I think it's an interesting and good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u36	In this context, Mrs Tellegen could perhaps ask the cabinet to ensure that the National Crimina is put in order, because there are a lot of things on the table there. They can't handle that anymore. I've had a conversation with people at the National CID, and they're worried sick. Perhaps this can be taken on board at this point, because that is where the crux is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u37	A question to the cabinet through Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yeah, right here. We need to get the authority back on the street. I'm sure residents can help with that. The VVD is a strong supporter of neighbourhood apps and community prevention teams. For example, residents themselves can contribute to a greater sense of security together with the police, but also, of course, the old saying that prevention is better than cure. Prevention is very important. It's horrible to be a victim of a home invasion or robbery, but even minor offences often affect someone's sense of security. That's what you'd like to avoid. Hence my amendment to maintain the subsidy for the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security for 2017 at least. Entrepreneurs too often suffer from crime. The VVD also wants to maintain the Qualitymark Safe Business and the Safety Small Business Scheme in 2017 by maintaining the grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u39	We often hear the VVD about "harder, harder, hardest" punishments and "who deserves punishment must be punished." What does my colleague of the VVD think of the at least 1,000 innocents who are being punished by error? Ton Derksen recently wrote a book about this and give a number of examples. The VVD also knows the striking examples. Does the VVD, together with GroenLinks, think that there should also be a huge amount of action against this, namely on the preventive side?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr Van Nispen has just made a point of this. Yeah, that sounds logical and right. Strong punishment is important, but it must be done fairly. Where that doesn't happen properly, you need to see how that can be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u41	That raises a question. The VVD is the largest government party. Then what is the VVD calling this cabinet to? The same book says that only a few errors are eventually recognised, for example the case of Lucia de B, where ultimately there was no crime at all but simply problems with statistics and medical science. How do we ensure that so many errors cannot happen within our judicial system? What does the VVD intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u42	I hear there's been an investigation into this and there's a whole report now. First of all, I think it would be very useful to look at the reaction of the cabinet to this. If that research gives a comprehensive picture of the situation in the Netherlands, we must take it as a starting point. There will be more security issues every day and they will become more complex. That requires a lot of our cops. Just last week I spoke to police chief Frank Paauw, from Rotterdam. Over the past few weeks, he's lost hundreds of policemen to the Sinterklaas party that got out of hand. Those agents have not been able to do any other work, because they have to be taken away from their regular tasks every time for this kind of business. These are all social developments that put enormous pressure on regular police work. That brings me to my third point. Tjibbe Joustra of the Research Council for Security recently rightly said in an interview that there is a need for peace and quiet in order to put the basis of the national police in order and to finish in 2017. Once that base is final, serious work can be done on the further modernisation of the device. I can only very much agree with that, because we need more but also better and more modern blue. First of all, I'm talking about "more blue." That call for more agents is of all times. There's always a shortage. The VVD also wants more agents in the next cabinet period, but how do we find out exactly what is needed and with what number of agents the daily tasks but also the additional tasks, such as asylum and terrorism, can be done properly? We agreed to work towards 49,802 available police officers in 2021, but what is that number based on? Not on the stacking of the current task package; that's for sure. So I ask the Minister how he sees this now. The VVD wants a clear relationship between the number of tasks and the number of associated agents. There's no such relationship right now. The VVD also wants the police to be able to use agents more flexibly. We are already seeing this happening in the fight against organised crime, but this must be made possible by national police, for example, in the area of traffic enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u43	I have a quick question. I just don't understand. Why is the VVD asking for more agents in the next cabinet period? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u44	Short answer: that is in our election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u45	Fantastic! As in the VVD election programme in 2012 and as in the VVD election programme in 2010. Fantastic! What good is this gonna do us? What do we need today from the largest government party to call for more agents in the next cabinet period? Then what are your words worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u46	If Mr Van Nispen has listened carefully, then he heard that this sentence is part of a total story about the point I want to make here, namely that it cracks and squeaks, not only with the police but also with the Royal Marechaussee. There are so many more tasks added than the police stood for three or four years ago. In the merger of 26 police forces, so many police officers were wiped together. A number of police officers have come out of that and they are now entitled to do all the tasks they are getting on their plate. There is no relationship between their duties and the number of police officers in front of them. That's the point I want to make. So it turns out that the task of the police is so extensive at the moment that it no longer fits the number of people it has to carry out. That is clear to all of us by now. So I would first like to know where we stand now, what tasks lie ahead and what calculation we put under it to see what is needed. In that context, I have said that I assume that more agents are needed. That's what I said. So that's what my words are worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u47	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u48	I think my SP colleague, Mr Kooiman, knows like no other how hard the police are, that it is true that a lot of tasks have been added, how difficult it is with the national police and that it is squeaking and cracking. If Mrs Tellegen now notes this and promises more agents to come, why does the VVD accept 2,500 agents less in 2021 than in 2016? This is just in the budget. So now the VVD accepts that. The VVD is responsible for this and this VVD Minister is responsible for this. Mrs Tellegen can again make promises for another cabinet period, but her party has had six years. And then it beeps and cracks. Yeah, great. We'd seen that a long time ago. It's true, but why wait until another cabinet period? Do something about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr Van Nispen only encourages me in the story I am keeping here. The 49.802 FTE were agreed with all of us in 2012 when we formed the national police. We haven't done anything about that since then, but the world has changed since then. Since then, there have been many more tasks. So I'd like to go back to a way to look at that and see what it takes. So maybe I'll make a motion on that later. I'd like to hear the Minister's answers first. So this is not a request for more blue, Mr Van Nispen, this is a request to see how the relationship between the tasks and the number of people is. Surely you can't disagree with me that there isn't this relationship right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'm just saying that the SP had seen this much before the VVD, but let's not turn it into a competition. If the VVD says today: it beeps and it cracks, it can't come out and it doesn't add up, we just think of it as good news. Don't blame me. It's really good news. But then submit an amendment. Say, "We'll get more cops." Mrs Tellegen can now promise something that is in the election programme, as in 2012 and as in 2010, and to a motion that seeks to "call on the government to identify certain things" or "to ensure more blue in the future" we have nothing. We are now discussing the budget of 2,500 agents less in 2021 than in 2016. You shouldn't agree to that. That is why you must table an amendment if you are to keep the story that you are keeping.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u51	What I have to do, we'll see. I am concerned about the system, Mr Van Nispen. That reasoning follows you very well. No, I don't have any money to open a can of 5,000 cops right now. Where's the money supposed to come from? This is not a gratuitous plea for another cabinet period. Surely you agree with me that the number of police officers at the moment does not fit in with the number of tasks that lie ahead and that we should discuss them? We have been doing this for a very long time, but perhaps it would be useful to investigate this in order to ensure that we do again, after so many years, a zero measurement, because we have not done that measurement, nor have we done it in the national police. Then we all said: we sweep it together, and this is the number of agents we have to do it with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u52	What the VVD is doing now, I find deeply sad in all honesty. She is responsible for this ministry for six years and now she calls for serious consideration to be given to how many agents are actually needed. If we also look at the figures, we see that the employability of the police has been reduced. Last year it was 94%, but it fell to 90%. The neighborhood agents that were agreed are still not here. How can the VVD make a crack at her election program and tell more agents to come, while the cabinet lets this go? The VVD was at the wheel and ran this ministry as a VVD party office. That's shameless, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u53	I didn't hear a question. I've only heard a very dramatic statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u54	That is fine; I will ask a specific question. What does Mrs Tellegen think, for example, that this cabinet still counts all the aspirants to make beautiful decorations? Those are people who are still learning, looking around the streets for the first time and facing a terrible crime. These people are fully included in the determination of police strength. This minister is beating himself up because that's how he's doing it. Isn't Mrs. Tellegen ashamed that these people are counted as policemen while they're just above water?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u55	I'm not ashamed of anything. It is very nice to see all this happening in this Chamber, but I am simply trying to make a plea here that is not based on the opening of a can of agents on the basis of this budget. After all, there is no money for that. I would like us to think more carefully about the tasks of the police in this country and how we can calculate how many people fit in. That is what I am advocating here, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u56	The humiliation of the Chamber is, of course, due to the fact that, after the VVD was responsible for this ministry for six years, the police are not in order, the parts of the police are not in order, the detectives are no longer able to handle it, the clearance rate has fallen, the willingness to report has fallen and the driving times are still appalling. That is why I say that the VVD should be ashamed, because beautiful promises do not make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u57	My colleague from the VVD is under a lot of pressure here, so I'm gonna go help her out. She says she doesn't have the money to rip open a can of police officers, but she's willing to look at the police's duties. If the police have other tasks, it may well be used as priorities. Perhaps the amendment aimed at increasing funding for the police will not receive support, but the initiatives to legalise weed will at least receive that support. This is, after all, the prime means of generating police capacity. Now the police must count the plants on windowsills and be busy at the back door of the coffee shop. This leads to court cases where acquittal is almost the standard. We can then use these agents for genuinely socially useful tasks. Can we expect support from the VVD for this? Then we have solved part of the problem of police capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u58	The answer is very brief: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u59	There's been a problem for six years. This is recognised by the VVD. More police capacity is needed and tasks need to be considered. This is obvious; in this way we can look at the tasks of the police. However, the only answer from the VVD is: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u60	This is lame. I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren's plea that we should look closely at who is doing what in the chain. I have also discussed this in many general consultations about the police. If the police do not need to be directly involved, other partners in the chain will have to complement or take over. For example, the police have lost a lot of capacity because of confused persons. This has often been the subject of discussion. In this respect, much better cooperation with other partners can be achieved. I therefore agree with Mrs Van Tongeren on that part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u61	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u62	So after six years of VVD policy, it's found squeaking and cracking. There is no money for extra police, but a measure that is very obvious to free capacity, legalizing weed, is rejected by the VVD. So it is actually said that we have created a problem, but we are in no way prepared to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u63	That was a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u64	There's some uncertainty about legalizing weed. A certain part of the Chamber says: it would be very good if municipalities were to grow and act, if the threshold for drugs were to be reduced a little. Another part of the Chamber says: no, the threshold for drugs must remain high. Mrs. Tellegen and I were always shoulder to shoulder. Now there has been a debate in her party and there is some ambiguity. One says that the Congress proposal doesn't really change anything, the other says that it's really good to regulate. Where does the VVD group stand in the fight against these terrible drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u65	I'm taking Mr Segers to Noordwijkerhout. Two weeks ago, the VVD's election programme could be amended. There were incredibly many amendments on pot growing. A lot of amendments did not make it. In fact, the only amendment that has succeeded is that we have now settled it in a strange and inconsistent way and that we need to regulate it in a smarter way. Two aspects are very important. The first is security and the fight against crime. The other aspect is that we think it is primarily a national issue and not a municipal issue. These two aspects must be taken into account, but the thrust of the amendment itself is that the whole system must be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u66	As unclear as it was in the coverage, it stays here. I have no idea what it means what Mrs Tellegen is saying. The Minister has pointed out here that most of the crop is for export and that we should not export it. That has been an important argument in the fight against drugs. We supported the Minister in that. We have said that we should not lower the threshold but raise it. That there is indeed a strange inconsistency between the front and the back door, I agree. But then what's the solution? Are you going to lower or raise that threshold? That's the choice we stand for. It is completely unclear to me whether the VVD will continue to fight drugs and addiction or whether the VVD will give up that fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u67	As I said, I fully support Mr Segers' plea on crime, exports and all the negative aspects. At the party congress, it was very clearly stated that it is also stated in the explanatory statement to the amendment that these problems must be resolved in any case, whatever solution is ultimately chosen. That is therefore a very strict condition. Another condition is that we want a national solution in advance to Mr Verhoeven of D66..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We don't want local authorities to take it out on their own. The position is clear. This is a compromise following a discussion in our party. We have said that the whole system must be kept under review. You can actually choose two things, and that's what we're going to investigate. If you have a lock on the back, you must have it in the front. The other extreme is that you tolerate it at the front, allowing weed cultivation at the back. That's what we're gonna look at right now. Once again, that is what we are going to do with these two points: that we must, in any case, find the best solution to the crime and the insecurity it entails and that we are looking for a national solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u68	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u69	If it is proposed here to solve dilemmas, to be for safety and to be against addiction, 150 hands will go into the air here. But we're at a crossroads now. We are faced with a choice: do we support the Minister's policy or give up? That's the choice. Mrs Tellegen outlines the dilemma she is facing, but I ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u70	For the moment, we stand for the Minister's policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u71	There are now municipalities that say: we do have that resident criterion, but we do not maintain it. About the distance from schools, they say, "Well, we're a little out of control, we're letting that run a little bit. Are we actually gonna keep it? Are we going to continue that fight or not? The dilemma is clear, but the answer of the VVD is completely unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u72	If Mr Segers asks me whether I support the Minister's policy, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u73	I'm not talking about weed. The VVD Congress has made a clear statement and I am confident that the Congress will return Mrs Tellegen and the Minister and eventually choose the sensible path, namely the way to save a lot of police capacity and use it better. I listened with interest to Mrs Tellegen. The VVD made false promises before the elections and then all made cuts. She has formed the national police, but that has actually gone wrong on a lot of points. Then Mrs Tellegen beats herself on the shoulder and says that there is a solid budget. However, in 2021, 2,500 FTE police appear to be less. Mrs. Tellegen says it beeps and cracks. Then why does the VVD not just table a firm amendment instead of a weak motion on a new system? Mr Van Nispen also asked this and I think it is a very fair question. Why doesn't she put in an amendment to get more money for the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u74	This is the same question as Mr Van Nispen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u75	The answer is: the money is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u76	The same answer as that given to Mr Van Nispen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u77	Then why does Mrs Tellegen say it's squeaking and cracking and that she's so sorry? She says she's worried about it, she wants to make some of it, and she wants to change the system. You're kidding me, aren't you? Then we just better say, "There's no money, we have to do it and we don't talk about it anymore?" However, Mrs Tellegen now pretends to be very concerned, as if she were very sorry, but when she can finally do something, she does nothing. That's the VVD on Security and Justice in the last six years: the mouth full of tough language, but when it comes to it, it doesn't deliver anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u78	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u79	I think 200 million went to the police this year, but that's quite aside. I was working on soft drugs policy. In my opinion, if I have listened to her correctly, the VVD spokesperson says that the VVD could be in favour if there is a good arrangement which is firmly opposed to export abroad and which has not been motivated locally. The VVD can therefore vote in favour of any good solution that will secure this and solve the problem of the back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u80	I follow Mr Recourt, but he's moving too fast in this. I'm not going with it. This would also undermine the congressional amendment. We agreed there that we're gonna keep the whole system under review. This may have different results, however frustrating that may sound at the moment for Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u81	I listened with interest to the discussion about the VVD and soft drugs. Can Mrs Tellegen summarise the conclusion? What else can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u82	I can even read out the text of the amendment to Mr Van der Staaij, if he likes it. Then it's clear to everyone. That's how it's gonna be in our election program. "While the sale of cannabis at the front door is tolerated, its purchase is now illegal. The VVD wants to get rid of that strange situation and regulate the policy on soft drugs smarter. It is time to redesign the entire domain of and around soft drugs. That redevelopment can only take place nationally. Municipalities must stop experimenting with pot growing as soon as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u83	The only clarity is therefore that municipalities should at least stop regulating weed cultivation. That sounds very concrete. Furthermore, there is no clarity at national level as to what this solution should look like. The world needs to be better, but we don't know how, is actually the summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u84	I have also mentioned the other aspect, from the explanatory statement to the amendment, namely that crime and security must be dealt with in the best way. A solution must also be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u85	D66 said it was obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u86	Yeah, he's a rich man, but that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u87	He is wrongly reckoning rich; of which he is aware. Does this also mean that, unlike D66, there is a very real chance that the policy will be strengthened if the VVD is in charge?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mr Van der Staaij understood that very well. More blue should also be better blue. Modern times call for modern policemen. That is why it is a good thing that 10 million more should be made available in this budget for better equipment. The modern agent has his desk in his pocket, in the form of his smartphone. More work is now rightly being done on this. Apart from smartphones, money is made available for the introduction of bodycams, with everything aimed at faster and more effective action. The chances of getting caught are increasing and the public is even better informed. Mobile work is the future. The modern agent vlogs himself; he tweets, posts on Facebook and communicates directly. The modern agent is an information-driven agent for whom mobile work is the norm. All this can only be done if the ICT works optimally with the agent on the street, but also with the detectives and in all business systems. Companies all spend more than 10% of their budget on ICT. I know there will be another report from the General Court, but I would like to ask you how this is going to be with the police. I read that some 400 million is being spent. That's less than 10% of the total budget. How is ICT handled within the national police budget? With more blue is also an ambition. The end of the reorganisation is in sight. There's money being invested in CID. It is good to note that the criminality approach in the Netherlands is paying off, but we want more of the crimes committed to be resolved. For years, the clearing rate has fluctuated around 25. Although a much higher percentage of serious crimes is being resolved, we want the average to go up over the full width. There's been a million reports every year. Around 200,000 cases are resolved. The VVD would like to see clear and quantitative targets set with all partners in the chain for the flow and handling of cases in the criminal justice chain. I would like to hear from the cabinet what ambitions it has on this point. I come to my final point: the crime of the future. I'll start with organized crime. Mr Van Oosten has done a good job in tackling undermining crime and taking away criminal money. The cabinet is investing money again, namely 7 million, in order to make the most of this next year. That's good news. In line with this, the VVD is pleased that the Public Prosecutor is currently exploring the possibilities of banning motorcycle gangs. The scale and impact of organized crime in the Netherlands have such a huge impact on society that we will also have to work with it in the coming years. The same applies to cybercrime. The D.A.'s office predicts that we will increasingly be faced with this. By 2021, 50% of crime will be digital. The world is digitizing and so is crime. We come here before Christmas to discuss in detail the Law on Computer Crime III, a law that is urgently needed to give the police the same powers in the digital world as in the physical world. In the report Netherlands digital dry feet are very useful recommendations about this. Can the Secretary of State indicate what, with this report under the arm, needs to be done to make our systems digitally resilient? Shouldn't our investments in cybersecurity and countering cybercrime in the very near future be significantly increased? I'm rounding up. The Netherlands is getting safer. Crime is decreasing and yet people are not always experienced and feel that security. This is mainly due to threats from outside our borders. People want to know where they stand, whether the Netherlands remains the Netherlands, whether we can live our lives here in freedom. We can't take away that uncertainty. However, we can do everything we can to make the Netherlands as safe as possible and make every effort to do so day in, day out. The budget we are discussing today is an important and very strong start. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. Over the past period, the VVD has been firmly committed to making the asylum flow to our country manageable. At present, over 65 million people in this world are fleeing or displaced. This number is expected to increase further in the coming years. And I'm not even talking about the huge population explosion that the continent of Africa will be going through. Although many will understand that you are looking for a place for yourself and your family where you are safe or where you can live under better conditions, many people are at the same time concerned about the large numbers of migrants. Last year, in our country, we experienced a large uncontrolled influx of asylum seekers. This has led people to worry about the survival of the Netherlands as they know it. People wonder whether the Netherlands, with all its achievements and freedoms, for which generations have fought, will also be preserved for future generations. Is the Netherlands still the Netherlands or is it losing its identity because of the arrival of large groups of migrants with different cultural norms and values? We have seen that our society cannot cope with these groups. Our country was flooded with asylum seekers who travelled from safe countries to our country in search of the place with the best facilities and perspectives. This led to azc's in places that sometimes doubled the original population and unfortunately also to unsafe situations around these shelters. But even when these groups arrive in our society after first care, the problems are great. I'm not saying it for the first time: large groups don't integrate but segregate. A large proportion of these people end up in welfare. A large part of asylum seekers have a different culture of values and standards, with the result that they will not quickly embrace the freedoms of our society, but will question or even abuse them. That is what our society needs to be protected from. The fact that we had no control over the numbers and background of the asylum seekers who came in has made us feel unsafe. This has also reduced support for the reception of asylum seekers. That does not make us racist or heartless, but realistic. Most people do think it is important to reach out to real refugees, preferably by helping them in their own region, but if there is no other way to do it by providing temporary shelter for small groups here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr Azmani just said that large groups do not integrate. But then I do not understand why the VVD is blocking everything at the moment when there are great pleas for small-scale reception and for the reception of asylum seekers in the neighbourhoods as much as possible. The VVD says: no, it doesn't have to be all small-scale and we don't do priority on waiting lists for houses either. Instead, the VVD has people trapped in asylum seekers' centres. Surely this does not promote integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u91	These are two different elements, namely housing after the granting of a status and the reception of asylum seekers. In the debate I had with Mrs Voortman at the time, it was about realism. Last year we were confronted with the fact that in some weeks 4,000 asylum seekers had to be sought shelter. You can say very easily and cheaply that we should do so with reception facilities of about 100 people, but that would mean that the Secretary of State and the municipalities together should have ensured that 40 municipalities were provided with reception facilities every week. At that time, we saw that not many municipalities were keen to realize these reception conditions, let alone that we should have signed 40 municipalities every week with the question: can I have one more? You already have one, but you may realize a second reception facility. It was not real at the time to take the view that we should do it with small facilities. I have never been against small facilities, but I have always wanted to keep realism in the debate. I think it is too cheap a political message to say:'municipality, you only have to open a small supply'. Municipalities would then have to offer to open several facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u92	The cabinet could also have chosen to make agreements with municipalities on the reception of 500 or 1,000 asylum seekers and then leave it to those municipalities themselves to deal with them. Municipalities would have been able to decide for themselves if they had done that with five times a hundred and ten times fifty. All of that could have happened. I note that Mr Azmani does not go into my other example, namely the example of the status holders who are now in the asylum-seekers' centres. They keep places occupied there, even though they want nothing more than to integrate. The VVD says here "large groups do not integrate," but why doesn't the VVD ensure that these people can live and integrate in those neighbourhoods and that they don't all stay together?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u93	We have always said that for people who can get a residence permit here and who are in this country, there are many single young men who come to the Netherlands through asylum procedures. When people leave their homes and they go to college, they start living in rooms. I'm sure Mrs. Voortman lived in rooms in Groningen, just like I did. Why would someone who gets refugee status have the privilege of getting a social rental? Well, no. So we have created more space and opportunities, but I fully agree that it is undesirable for a large group of people with status to remain in azc's. The task of municipalities is to look for alternative housing in cooperation with housing corporations, and not just a social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr Azmani says: large groups do not integrate, they segregate. However, today's research shows convincingly that most of these asylum seekers would love to integrate, that these people would like to learn the language and that they would like to take over the Dutch values. The problem is, however, that the Dutch language is not offered. This is not done by the cabinet or by the VVD. You have voted against the motion for a resolution, and you have stopped refugees from receiving one language lesson from day one for over a year. According to Mr Azmani, is it true that large groups are not integrating, or is it true that the VVD does not want them to integrate?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u95	The last point is really reprehensible. Once people are granted a residence permit in this country, it will help everyone to participate in society as soon as possible. This will therefore not prevent the VVD from offering language courses to asylum seekers. Asylum seekers who, if you look at the influx, come from safe countries, think of Moroccans, Algerians and Albanians, we offer a Dutch language course when it comes to D66. The VVD doesn't belong to that. But you need to get to work as quickly as possible with people who have perspective and get residence status in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u96	That's sad, of course. That is a sad answer. I proposed this a year ago, at the height of the influx. I did that then a majority of that flow of refugees consisted of Syrians and people from Eritrea. The VVD also believes that these refugees can stay, but those people had to wait eight months before they were allowed to enter the asylum procedure at all. They've been on their hands for eight months. They haven't learned the language for eight months. As a result, these people are three times less likely to have a job, so they are three times more likely to have assistance. You've become a welfare machine!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u97	Well, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, what nonsense! After we are confronted with such large numbers and we offer language lessons, the large groups are going to integrate into this society. Yeah, yeah, yeah, Look also at the past in which there was a lead time of eight days as far as the decision was concerned. For example, the Somali asylum seekers who have a residence permit: 60 to 70% of these people depend on the assistance. Look at the Iraqis, the Iranians and the Syrians: more than 50% of these people depend on the assistance. Large groups with a different pattern of standards and values than ours do not integrate into this society but they will segregate into this society. The VVD is therefore in favour of a selective and controlled admission policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u98	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u99	It's really fascinating. Now Mr Azmani brings history to mind. Then I say, look at the sixties, the migrant workers. Look at the nineties, the Yugoslav refugees. What was said then? All those people are going back! Let us not invest in integration. Let's not invest in the language. We are now reaping the sour fruit from that. All the research reports show that if we had invested in that language then, we wouldn't have bumped into that stone. Thanks to the VVD we are going to hit the same stone for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u100	This is bullshit. It is the VVD that takes measures for which D66 runs away: no Dutch, no assistance and having an effort to acquire the Dutch language at all. If people are stuck in benefits and they are not even willing to learn the Dutch language, what do you do in this society? How do you want to participate in society? Then D66 isn't home. However, when it comes to asylum seekers for whom it is not yet clear whether they are allowed to stay here, part of it is that: I am talking about Albanian Moroccans and Algerians who are now in the influx and who are currently in Ter Apel in Groningen to make society unsafe and want to offer D66 language courses. As far as I am concerned, this is not happening with the tax money of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u101	In the end, after a number of generations, Mr Azmani will be fine, but I do not want to talk about that. Mr Azmani says, just as several VVD members have recently done, that the Netherlands will not remain the Netherlands because of the people who come here and who have a different pattern of standards and values. Can Mr Azmani outline for the country what the Netherlands is going to be, if the Netherlands does not stay in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u102	Well, the Netherlands does not have a cafeteria model where you can shop in the freedoms. Mr Kuzu will not like what I am going to say, but we have been able to see very well this summer what happened on the Erasmus Bridge when we reported on demonstrations there. It was made impossible for the media to record that demonstration. That is not my country, that is not the Netherlands, that is not the country we stand for. You have the freedom to express your opinion and you have the right to demonstrate, no matter how unpleasant that may be for some people, but I defend that right. At the same time, I am defending the right to report on this. This is where freedom of the press is guaranteed. We saw very clearly that this was made impossible and that their country is not the Netherlands, but the country of Turkey; that their leader is not the leader of the Netherlands, but Erdogan, the Turkish leader. I think you're talking about integration issues. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed out that, in the 1970s and 1980s, integration policy was mainly aimed at preserving one's own culture and identity. I say to Mr Kuzu that we are still reaping the bitter fruits of that, and Mr Kuzu knows that from his own point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u103	We talked about this a lot just after the summer holidays. I don't think that's an unpleasant example. It shows exactly what the VVD now blames others. When people are demonstrating with Turkish flags, it is all a big problem and it is about integration and it is a problem of integration. If other groups in the House of Representatives are protesting with terrorist flags or Israeli flags, that is not a problem and we are not talking about integration. When we talk about the cafeteria model, I would also like to address other standards and value patterns. We often talk about equality in the Netherlands and about the fact that it is being put under pressure because of the arrival of refugees. We have very large groups in the Netherlands, whole areas, whole villages, who also do not recognise the equality between men and women or between homosexuals and heterosexuals. Let's talk about Urk, about Staphorst. Do we also have an integration problem there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u104	I think it's very clear and very clear. We expect newcomers to embrace the freedoms we know in this country and to respect the equality between men and women, for which generations have been fighting for. We expect them to respect the fact that men here walk hand in hand through the streets. They shouldn't be whistled off or abhorred. That's what we have to stand for. We see the impact of the arrival of groups of asylum seekers on society. If you come from a very different country with a different pattern of standards and values, it is quite difficult to get used to the fact that in this country two men can walk hand in hand, or that a woman can dress like she wants to dress, without being called a woman who enjoys public life, if I may say so nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u105	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u106	There's the cafeteria model! The VVD now says: it's only the newcomers. I specifically asked him whether the same applies to people who have lived here for centuries. Why is the VVD constantly trying to bring down problems in this society or challenges we face to newcomers in this society? The only answer could be that the VVD is competing with the PVV. The VVD is feeding the lower abdomen of a group of people. From the VVD, you might expect her not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u107	The only answer I would like to give is that the VVD understands the concerns in society and that the VVD does not want to increase the problem that exists by receiving large groups of migrants who actually have nothing to do with the free and tolerant society we know. We must protect that society and we must not be naive, I say through you, Mr President, to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u108	I hear Mr Azmani expressing rather firm lyrics about integration. He says if you don't learn the Dutch language, you won't get a residence permit or lose it. How many times has that happened in the last four years, not getting a residence permit because someone doesn't comply with the duty of integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u109	It's a well-known question from the CDA. I would point out to Mrs Keijzer that it is a law of the CDA, Mr Leers, who brought this law to the Chamber at the time. In principle, people have to settle in within three years. It can be extended for another two years. We are now at a point where we see what consequences that should have. Mrs Keijzer also knows very well that you cannot simply withdraw refugee status because someone does not pass their integration exams, how often we may wish to do so, especially for other migrant groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u110	A you-bowl and practical objections. But the point is that Mr Azmani is being tough here. He has an oneliner: no Dutch learned, no residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u111	I said no Dutch, no welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u112	Whatever. No citizenship, no residence permit. I note that the tough texts, including the part of the coalition agreement in which they are also included, have, of course, in practice resulted in not one withdrawn residence permit because of the influence of the VVD negotiators. You're kidding me, aren't you? Well, then you're gonna have to show those nuances here as VVDs, right? Otherwise, someone who sits and sees if this reads tomorrow "well, well, well, that VVD" when it turns out different in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u113	This is more in line with the budget we are discussing next week. I expect the CDA to be on the same interrupting microphone again. I find it very remarkable that this political frame is constantly being rebuilt by the CDA, while it is a law submitted by their own minister in this Chamber. I have already said to a CDA spokesman, Mr Heerma, that we both end up in the same way. We both want it to have consequences, for example on the right of residence. We both want, if we can't, that it will have consequences for facilities that you would like to offer. Because if you stand with your back to our society, where do you get the right to say that that society should show solidarity with you? Look at our election program, too. There we have written a few things in addition to this. We should not now create the illusion that we can withdraw refugee status because someone is not here to settle in. But I think there are other ways to make the bath water very cold for such people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u114	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u115	This isn't about frames. What it's about, in essence, is whether you're honest about what's possible. I see the VVD constantly making promises and fine words swinging into society that are not being fulfilled in practice. That's dramatic for confidence in politics, and that's why I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u116	It's dramatic when you bring a law to the Chamber that's hard to enforce. In the coalition agreement, the VVD said that it does not apply to asylum seekers, to people with refugee status. Then you'll be fair, because you'll already say in the coalition agreement which group it doesn't apply to. Then there's family reunification. To explain it to Mrs Keijzer, we are talking about protecting the right to family life within the meaning of Article 8 ECHR. That requires a balance of interests. The Secretary of State also knows that I think that in certain situations you might also be able to make that balance of interests in favour of our state, our society. Those are things you need to build up to see if they're legally sustainable. I expect this Secretary of State to be working on that. But my mind doesn't stand still. We do not just have to look at the right of residence, if that is so difficult. In my opinion, we can also do other things, such as no longer granting assistance or saying that people are no longer entitled to allowances if they do not wish to burgeon. The principle must be: if you stand with your back to society, then you receive nothing from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u117	Mrs Keijzer, really only when it comes to a personal fact. We're not gonna have any interruptions in fours and fives and not that long. We still have 17 speakers to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u118	I agree with you, Mr President, but I appeal to you that if I ask a factual question, I get a short answer and not a you-bake and not a reproach to me. The net result is probably: zero refused or withdrawn residence permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u119	Please continue, Mr Azami.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'll follow the rules, Mr. Chairman. The fact that we had no control over the numbers of asylum seekers who came in and their background has made us feel unsafe. As a result, support for the reception of asylum seekers has been reduced. That does not make us racist or heartless, as I said before, but that makes us realistic. Protecting our society against large numbers of newcomers falls or stands with a manageable immigration policy. It is not for nothing that the VVD has been calling attention to the implementation of the March 2015 VVD plan, which advocates the reception of asylum seekers in its own region by making agreements with safe third countries in that region. For example, the agreements with Turkey last year have led to a substantial reduction in the influx of asylum. In 2015, we were still dealing with 58,000 asylum applications, which is likely to be half this year. If we had not intervened, we would have been expected to face 100,000 asylum applications this year. If we take the last month and drop it off by October last year, we can see that only a fraction of it is migrating through the south-east route, i.e. through Turkey and Greece, namely only 1%. That's the kind of arrangement that works. What doesn't work is opening the border to let anyone who wants to build a better life here. Our society simply can't handle that. What doesn't work either is the false solution of building a fence around the land. That would not only be practically impossible, but it would also cause great damage to our prosperity and jobs in the Netherlands. The VVD would therefore like to congratulate this Secretary of State and through him and this cabinet to the Prime Minister for the way in which they have managed the asylum influx in the past period. We are much better at it now than we were a year ago. Our country was in turmoil. Buses filled with asylum seekers drove through the country looking for shelter. Sports rooms were taken to serve as a place to stay. Now, a year later, the question is no longer whether there is sufficient shelter, but where we can close down locations. This is the kind of solution that benefits the Netherlands. I am glad that these rulers have taken matters into their own hands rather than, like the parties in this house, screaming on the sidelines without offering a solution, or, like others, sticking their heads in the sand and denying the problem. The rulers have identified the problems and then dealt with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u121	Am I hearing this correctly or is it a joke that the cabinet has reduced the number of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u122	The total number of refugees and displaced persons has only grown worldwide, but we can see that the number of asylum seekers, the number of asylum applications in the Netherlands, has fallen dramatically. We all know what this has to do with, namely the agreements that have been made with Turkey and because the Turkey route towards Greece has been blocked. That's what it's got to do with. I know this is hard for the CDA, but it has to do with that. During the Dutch presidency of the EU during the first half of this year, the cabinet also took very big steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u123	It's not a joke. The cabinet has reduced the number of refugees. However, it is very likely that it has been reduced by the fences that have been erected in the Eastern European countries. That's where it went down...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u124	That's bullshit. That would mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mrs Keijzer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u126	I'm not done. Perhaps, but that is very much the question, because the numbers have already fallen just before the agreement with Turkey has been made. Again, the VVD must stop keeping stories that are not true and make promises that cannot be made. In the end, that will no longer be eaten. Just say honestly what it's because of and don't stand there and say: the number of refugees has fallen because of this cabinet, because that's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u127	This is bullshit. To be honest, on this subject, I expected something better from the CDA. Let's see what happened. If you follow Mrs Keijzer's reasoning that it is only through the closure of the borders in Macedonia, then hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers should now be staying in Greece. The pressure for resettlement would be even higher. That is not the case. The agreements have been made to better protect and guard the Turkish coast from the Turkish side. The presence, among others, of Dutchmen in the Greek waters is intended to ensure that the boats can no longer reach the Greek mainland. The essence is that it doesn't make sense to go to Greece anymore, because you won't get a chance. That's the effect. You can deny that, but I'm grateful that this happened within a year. If it were up to the CDA, we would have had displaced status and we would have received hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers this year. I didn't want to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u128	The answer must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u129	Mrs Keijzer herself questioned these figures. She said that we are getting hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers here; the figure of 58 000 from the government is wrong. No, that was a policy idea. I am so glad that this cabinet has not been on its hands, but has worked very hard to make agreements with Turkey, so that the influx is manageable again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u130	Mr Azmani, the questions must be brief, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u131	This is not my fault; it is clear. Mr Azmani now needs many more words to explain why the number of asylum seekers has decreased. Don't bother. I think I made my point. I want to talk about the future. Mr Azmani spoke narrowly about all the ideas of the CDA to do something about this in the future. If it had not been possible, or if Erdogan immediately reopens the borders, then Mr Azmani must take it seriously, and all the refugees are going to walk again, what are we going to do? What then is needed to ensure that we are not, in Mr Azmani's words, overwhelmed by refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u132	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u133	I give Mr Azmani one tip. I know the Azmani plan is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u134	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u135	Yeah, we know each other by now. This plan requires that the Refugee Convention be amended, but the VVDs in the Cabinet do not want to do so. I like to hear some ideas about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u136	Sometimes something is going to live, such as the assumption that the Azmani plan will only be possible if the Refugee Convention is amended. The good thing about that plan is that it can be done within the Refugee Convention, namely through the safe third country. That could be a grounds for rejection. The agreements between Turkey and Greece were also made on that basis. So it can be done within that treaty. But I agree with the CDA that in future we should focus on treaty adaptation. So it's en-and. The plan can be within the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u137	No, no, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u138	Profit chairman, it's all profit...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u139	No, no, Mrs. Keijzer. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u140	I would like to come back to the point that the flow of refugees entering Europe would be entirely due to the Turkey deal. I remember Professor Spijkerboer's grades. Mr Azmani may be laughing at it now, but the figures show that the flow stopped in October when the Balkan borders closed, and not in February when the Turkey deal was closed. Anyway, that's for historiography. If Mr Azmani is so proud of the Turkey deal, what is he going to do about the major adverse consequences of the Turkey deal, such as the 16,000 people currently on the Greek islands? There's the pain of the Turkey deal. Those people are in inhumane situations in the rain, in the cold and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u141	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u142	I'll come back to the historiography and to Mr. Spijkerboer. If anyone does not like the fundamental change in asylum policy, I can imagine that he is trying to support this with scientific research. Mr Voordewind has asked questions about this and I have seen the answers of the Secretary of State. I think it's quite obvious and clear what's going on. When it is winter and cold, there is a decline in the seasonal waves. But that doesn't mean anything about those boundaries. The decrease will take place exactly from March 20th. That is when the agreements with Turkey were made. In the Member States of the European Commission, there has also been a huge drop in the number of asylum applications since then. On that other point, the reception of asylum seekers in Greece: the European Union has a joint responsibility to ensure that this is done as effectively as possible. As far as I am concerned, Greece is primarily at the bar. The times of looking at it as Greece did in the past are really over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u143	This is really a forgery of history, because it is not the case that the figures did not go down until 20 March. They went down substantially before that, apart from the weather conditions and so on. People stopped going because the boundaries were closed. Mr Azmani cannot run away from the misery that is currently taking place, both on the Greek islands and on the Greek mainland. There are people there in distressing circumstances. Mr Azmani cannot just point to Greece. That country has said, also to the European Union: help us in the screening process, in the selection process. We have an advantage of that, too. What is Mr Azmani going to do with the VVD, perhaps in a European context, to help the Greeks in their selection and screening? What is he going to do so that we take our own responsibility, namely to reallocate 4,000 people to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u144	Still, there's something about that historiography. I will be showing you an overview later that there will be a decrease from exactly 20 March. It is an overview of the European Commission and I do not think the Commission is lying about it. Then Mr Voordewind will be able to see what the truth is and I will hear his reaction in the second term. On the responsibility that Greece must feel in terms of a humane reception of asylum seekers residing there and the responsibility of the various Member States, I have to say that the Netherlands is taking responsibility. Take the key, the numbers and the call from this Chamber to pay particular attention to minors in the context of redistribution. I see a secretary of state who listens to the Chamber and takes responsibility. Every time, the Secretary of State is urged to make that appeal to his colleagues from the other Member States. I think there's movement in that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u145	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u146	The hard figures, also about our own relocation, show that we are not yet at half the numbers that we would be reallocating. I hear Azmani speaking very firm language. He's glad to see the influx stop. I would also like to hear that he is expressing his urgency about relocation. After all, we are far from there. The Netherlands can do what it can, and I hope that Mr Azmani insists on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u147	Mr Azmani just said that we are so much better off. But what about those refugees who are stuck in Greece, who, despite the fact that the Netherlands has promised to receive 4,000 people, are still in prison? Only half of the people we were supposed to catch, we've picked up. Mr Azmani says: we are so much better. I would like to hear from him whether he is talking about the refugees. I have another question. Mr Azmani compliments the cabinet: oh, how you're doing. At the same time, we were in a difficult position when last year all these sports halls had to be opened. To whom is it due that all this went well? To city leaders. I would finally like to hear from Mr Azmani: it is good that the municipal leaders took their responsibilities at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u148	That can also be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u149	I'll confirm that last one. I also said it in AO's: of course it is thanks to society and all those volunteers who have gone for it and taken their responsibility. Together with them, we did as good as we could last year. We want to avoid such a situation for this year. I have to say that this year the number of asylum applications has fallen dramatically. That was the responsibility of this cabinet and of this Secretary of State. They took it on. I now have to say in this budget debate that they have implemented this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u150	Mr Azmani, the answers must be really short. I am really going to reduce the interruptions to two, because with three supplementary questions with lengthy introductions, it is not going to work. Give a good example, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u151	When the VVD talks about asylum policy and municipal administrators, it is generally very negative: they do not want to take their responsibilities, they do not want to make agreements. I am therefore pleased that the VVD is now saying that it is a good thing that local authorities have indeed taken responsibility for this kind of care and that it is also complimented on this. However, I also asked about those 4,000 people, who have the same responsibility in the Netherlands and who are not being complied with. The cabinet intends to fire COA employees, because "we don't need them anymore." They're closing azc's. Let us now at least record 100 more people in accordance with the promise we have made. What's against just keeping your promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u152	A brief response, Mr Azmani. It's really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u153	I think we're gonna keep the promise. The Netherlands is at the bar and accepts that responsibility. To take this picture away: one assumes the maximum figures, but one has to look at the number of people who are currently in Greece; you get a share out of that. This approach is therefore not only in the interests of our society, but also in the interests of the asylum seekers themselves, because they are no longer at risk of falling into the hands of smugglers of human beings, who make a great deal of money in organising a life-threatening crossing to Europe, and because the inhuman conditions encountered by refugees during their journey are being spared them. It is also in their interest because they can also bring themselves to safety if they do not have money for a trip to Europe and because they are taken close to home in a region with equal cultural standards and values. When the situation is safe, it is easier for them to return to their country of origin and help rebuild. But we're not there yet. We have managed to control the main route over the Aegean Sea through Turkey, but we have not yet managed to control the Mediterranean, as witnessed the record number of people who died this year in the Mediterranean, despite the fact that I dare even say: thanks to the many rescue operations there. We have to go ahead in accordance with the VVD plan of March 2015 to make these agreements with countries in North Africa. In the meantime, we are working on agreements with countries of origin and transit on better reception, management of their own borders and return policy. If countries do not participate in this process, the VVD believes that this should have consequences for development aid, trade agreements, treaties and the issuing of visas. The Secretary of State will understand that I am calling for continued attention to this. I therefore ask the question again: what is the latest state of affairs with regard to talks with countries such as Tunisia and Egypt? Is it true that Italy is getting the lead in this or is the European Commission leading in this? What can we expect from Malta, which will take over the presidency of the EU in the next six months? Will Malta be as successful as the Netherlands in the first half of this year? The construction of orphanages in the region is part of a better reception in the country of origin. I have recently seen the importance of this in Ethiopia, which was during the committee's work visit. It is an important alternative to what now seems to be the only perspective, namely sending children unguided to Europe. It is not good to take children out of their own environment, but they also run the risk of being exposed to horrors such as abuse and organ trafficking along the way. As the number of unaccompanied children in the migration stream is increasing, this really needs to be addressed. What about Afghanistan? That country does not want to participate in the construction of orphanages, despite various projects. Should this bad behaviour not have any consequences, especially given the commitment of the European Union in that country? It is precisely in the interests of the safety of these children that we must combat this as quickly as possible. What's going on with Ethiopia? Could we set up a coordinated project to stop this migration flow of most of Eritrean children, with all the risks involved, so that it no longer pays to put children across the border? The continent of Africa can also recognise its importance, because large groups are also migrating towards the south of the continent. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. If the reception of asylum seekers in their own region is better regulated, the right to asylum in Europe may eventually lapse as far as the VVD is concerned. In fact, refugee treaties do not prevent refugees from being given safe shelter outside Europe. Treaties which hinder reception in their own region can be adapted as far as the VVD is concerned where necessary. In the meantime, the asylum procedures in our country need to be further streamlined. The Secretary of State has already made a battle with the shortening of procedures. According to the VVD, one further step can be taken, for example by abolishing appeals in the case of repeated applications and no longer waiting in the Netherlands for the outcome of the appeal in the case of subsequent applications. Some applications will benefit, as I call them, from a lick-on-piece decision. Unusual applications, applications to extend the stay do not deserve a procedure in which maximum care is taken. The aim should be to remove unpredicted applications within a day, which also removes the right to benefits. This should apply not only to repeated applications, but also to applications from migrants from safe countries, for example the Eastern Europeans and since summer the Algerians and Moroccans, which make up a large part of the recent migratory flows. Why not right away a lick-on-piece decision, the same day or the following day, with the operative part "obviously unfounded"? This also applies to "safelanders" who, for example, do asylum shopping. Why is the effort being made to make a Dublin claim to Germany, which takes weeks, if not months, while in the meantime all legal remedies are being used and someone here is enjoying all the facilities and making our society more unsafe? I'm talking about the many incidents with Moroccans in Ter Apel and in Groningen. I note from the news that this may also have to do with criminal networks. I ask the Secretary of State if we cannot change that, in addition to his justified actions mentioned in the letter of 17 November. Is he willing to continue exploring this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u154	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u155	With this point, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u156	Then Mrs Keijzer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u157	I fully agree with Mr Azmani. Yes, you can, Mr. Chairman. However, I am sure that Mr Azmani speaks to Mr Dijkhoff more often than I do. Why hasn't he done this a long time ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u158	Was that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u159	Mr. President, that's what you want, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u160	Yeah, but I didn't believe it. Mr Azmani, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u161	The incidents with Moroccan and Algerian asylum seekers in Groningen and Ter Apel have actually been going on for a few weeks. The number of incidents is increasing. When there are problems, it always works with me that my mind becomes a little more creative to take away concerns, at this time those of residents of Ter Apel and Groningen. Then you come to certain suggestions. I ask the Secretary of State to do a reconnaissance, because as a lawyer I can see that there may be legal issues, but I would like to see that exploration and I would like to be able to take stock of the fact that after a day or the following day I would like to see a lick-on-piece policy and a lick-on-piece decision in the sense of 'obviously unfounded'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u162	Of course, this has been going on for more than a few weeks. We have, of course, long-standing applications from Eastern European countries without opportunities. The misery in Groningen with Moroccans has also been playing for a while. It is also a mystery to me why Moroccans are there in the refugee centres. So I cannot imagine that this has not been discussed. So help us all to see perspective. This can be arranged, can't it? Otherwise, Mr Azmani would not bring this up here, would he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u163	In short, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u164	I'm doing a budget review here and I'm making proposals. For example, I made a lot of proposals last summer and they were also implemented, such as on state television and propaganda. I always make new proposals on the basis of developments. Now there is the proposal to consider whether we should deal with this differently and why such a Dublin claim is being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mrs Keijzer, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u166	This will soon lead to a commitment from the Secretary of State. Then I'm glad too, because what's going on here with these people in this country is unacceptable. I started with "Once," and I end with "Once." Now for the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u167	I'm gonna go hang on the other side anyway. Of course, incidents need to be tackled, but Mr Azmani says that with those refugees it becomes a lot more unsafe in the Netherlands. If he's asked about it, he says there's been incidents in the last two weeks. You have to deal with incidents, but will Mr Azmani stop saying "it's all so horrible with those refugees and we all have to lock the door, because they make the country so unsafe"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u168	We shouldn't look away from it either. I'm referring to the incident monitor. We can see that some 9,000 incidents took place in 2016 and that the Public Prosecutor's Office has used them in 800 cases. We shouldn't run away from that. I am not talking about all the refugees, as Mr Recourt knows. But when you see that Moroccans and Algerians are seeking asylum, it is too drunk for words that they are seeking asylum here. If, in addition, security in societies such as Groningen and Ter Apel is at stake, then I need to say that we should not take so long with all these legal safeguards. I'll give you a decision right away...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u169	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u170	If we have settled the asylum application process properly and expeditiously, any need to adopt measures afterwards to adjust decisions will cease. Everyone will benefit from speedy clarity. We do not give them by giving people hope, for example on a pardon scheme or on the use of discretionary powers. That is not fair to those who leave neatly after following the procedure. It's not fair to the people who keep such false hopes. It's not fair to our society either. If there are distressing circumstances that make policy disproportionate, then there is already the possibility to make a positive decision in the application procedure by applying Article 484 General Administrative Law. It is therefore a question of the inherent derogation. Does the Secretary of State want to reflect on this? If you decide with regard to the individual circumstances and quickly, isn't the back needed? Or do we just continue to stay illegally in the long term, paying off under the guise of social importance, but ultimately mostly because of political pressure? Then a natural bridge to the return policy. That is the Achilles heel of foreign policy, for decades. If people keep hoping that there is still a gap to be found, for example by stalling time, they choose rather to frustrate the departure rather than cooperate. Especially if there are countries that do not cooperate on forced departure. Is that a justification? Do we want to maintain that? It is good to read in the written reply that a number of countries have joined forces in recent years thanks to this Secretary of State. Furthermore, we see that more people are returning. It is also a good thing that the Secretary of State has decided to publish the figures on return monthly now that there is an unjustified picture of no one leaving, while over 20,000 foreigners have so far left this year. What does the Secretary of State expect for the coming year? How is the European Union's migration agenda progressing on this, as it was an essential part of the European Commission's Agenda on Migration in April 2015? How to deal with a country like Morocco? It is a good thing that the Secretary of State has announced in recent days that he would like to reach further agreements with that country soon. What does not help then are contradictory signals such as the recent administration fees of Minister Bussemaker for Morocco. I also see conflicting signals in the return policy when, for example, unwanted foreigners are not criminally prosecuted, for example by the Amsterdam police, if they are arrested by the foreign police, or in releasing the so-called illegal quota for 2016. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. How to act in 2017, I ask the Secretary of State. Finally, economic migration in the interests of increasing our prosperity, entrepreneurship and hence employment in the Netherlands. I congratulate the Secretary of State for the steps taken to further improve the start-up climate in the Netherlands. I thank him for taking on board the suggestions of the VVD. According to the VVD, we can take further steps in the coming years. I am not talking about my longer-term plan to fundamentally review the entire economic migration policy, for example, by using a hybrid migration model; a model that focuses on demand and supply with points allocation to stimulate circular migration and to take into account integration aspects precisely. I am actually talking about the self-employed scheme, which is now too conservative. Could the positive effects of the start-up scheme play a role in the revision of this self-employed scheme, for example, by using a so-called reference system in which knowledge institutions or certain investors can guarantee the temporary allocation to make a company here a success? That's good for our prosperity. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a look at this as well? In short, the VVD is not against migration, it is for a controlled and selective migration policy. A migration policy that can contribute to a certain Netherlands. A society in which everyone feels really protected and gets all the opportunities. The Netherlands we are fighting for is a Netherlands in which everyone lives together in a positive way and gets things done together. That's a Netherlands where what connects us is stronger than what divides us, no matter what callers claim on the sidelines. That which binds us is the Dutch standards and values, the Dutch culture. We do not always have to agree with each other, but there is no negotiation on one matter: anyone who comes here and wants to live in the Netherlands chooses the overall package. This is how we make together a country where the best time is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u171	On one point, I would like to put another question to Mr Azmani. This morning, in Trouw, there was an extensive article about the Centre Against Trafficking in Children and Trafficking in Human Beings. It said that the criminalisation of illegality, something Mr Azmani's VVD group wants to reintroduce, according to its new electoral programme, people in the hands of human traffickers. This was tried in 2005. There was an investigation and the advice was: don't. It was tried in 2011 and in 2014 this cabinet tried again. Each time it has turned out that it does not help to criminalize illegality. Why is this part of the election program again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u172	With all due respect: because it's a sought-after reasoning. If we continue to provide shelter to people who have gone to court and have been told by a judge that they are not allowed to stay here, it will keep people illegal. As far as I'm concerned, that's a criminal offence, because you set the standard that you're undesirable here in a criminal sense. I want to go even further. I also want it to be punishable by co-operation that people who have been put to good use are still stuck here in the margins of society or to help with that. I'd like it to be criminal if people act like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u173	Then we go back to the situation in which the VVD wants to punish and fine the church asylum with €3,000 and in which we are going to use police force to do so. Isn't it clear from previous investigations that that doesn't help? If people are here illegally and have to go back, you have to guide them through programs, such as those used by the Paulus Church in Rotterdam. You have to catch them and actively encourage them to return. By pushing that away in illegality, the VVD forces these people into the hands of human traffickers. You shouldn't want that, should you, Mr Azmani?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u174	That's bullshit. We force people into the hands of traffickers such as those who come from afar and start a procedure here, know that they can still stay here and make use of facilities. Then we push people into the hands of human traffickers who are currently making money from, for example, crossing the Mediterranean. We hold people in their hands if we are not clear in this country. We need to be clear to those people: you have a fair chance, there is a fair procedure that is going through with you if necessary, but if you do not have the right to stay then we do not offer a perspective. It must be clear that we do not want to offer them a prospect of a possible future in the margins of this society. I hate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u175	I hear Mr Azmani saying that he is not very pleased with the discretion of the Secretary of State. He has serious reservations about this. He therefore asks the cabinet to reflect on that. I also hear Mr Azmani say that he believes that children should not be removed from the environment in which they grew up and may have been born and rooted. If I add these two points together, I wonder why the VVD Group in this matter does not go along with a large part of the House of Representatives. Mr Azmani knows that the coalition partner, the Labour Party, always has a bit of a dual mind. With the support of the VVD she would no longer have that problem. Why is the VVD not also committed to a fairer, fairer and humane arrangement for the long-term children in the Netherlands, for the children's pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u176	That has everything to do with the fact that we differ on the assumption that the current procedure would be careless or not sufficiently human. Mrs Gesthuizen assumes that the procedure is careless and that therefore, for example, a children's pardon system is necessary or that the discretionary power should be applied a lot because it would not be considered at the moment. You can look not only legally at a case, but also at the individual, human aspect of it. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. The possibility to deviate is already there. There's a derogation power, but you don't want to give perspective after that, at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u177	I understand, however, that Mr Azmani does not consider this desirable if all the procedures have been followed. That's how I understood his earlier argument. That was very clear, but quite new to me. I've always only heard this from the PVV. In my view, Mr Azmani really objects to the use of discretionary powers. For a long time now he has been with the judge of Justice who is dealing with this particular dossier. But that's not what we're talking about. We are talking about a right that children can invoke if they stay in the Netherlands for a longer period of time, if they are rooted here or perhaps even born here and then have to leave the country on their 10th or 11th. I ask this because I have also heard Mr Azmani say for the first time that you have to take care of children who are rooted in Syria, for example, but in Lebanon. Those children should not be brought to the Netherlands, because that is not good for their development. If you don't push that line consistently, isn't that, to say the least, hypocritical?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u178	I don't know what's hypocritical about that. At present, the interests of children are already being taken into account in the procedure, including in the context of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Perhaps that is not enough in Mrs Gesthuizen's view, but in my view it is. So if that consideration is already made, I don't understand why instruments like a child's pardon or discretionary powers would still be needed at the back. That only gives people hope. I see MPs are going to look at those files themselves. I do not think that is a positive development. I don't think it's a job for MPs to look at individual cases either. There's a lot of political pressure to look at these things. I think we should do it another way. Then the question is, do you still need that back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u179	Short response, Mrs. Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u180	Just so we're clear, it's not a pardon. It's an arrangement. It has just become a piece of legislation in the Netherlands and not something that needs to be repaired afterwards, after the procedures have been completed. It'll just be legislation. Mr Azmani can argue for fair legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u181	I would like to ask Mr Azmani one more thing about the VVD's election programme. It says that the VVD allows every fugitive a safe return. And rightly so, I think. The solution is that the VVD is going to provide adequate and good reception in the region and therefore to invest in it. I ask Mr Azmani how much the VVD is going to invest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u182	That can be done very briefly, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u183	For the past year we have already invested extra. In any case, the Netherlands is always one of the largest investors in shelter in the region, now again with an additional 200 million. There is no financial support for our electoral programme yet, but it would be bizarre or strange if we did not invest in shelter in the region. We really take this issue seriously and believe that the whole asylum and migration policy should be fundamentally reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u184	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u185	I am very curious to see how much the VVD is going to invest, because the Prime Minister has said that we are going to cut down on development cooperation, where we are going to remove significant amounts of money. That does not really rhyme with the answer that Mr Azmani is now giving. So what exactly is it? Will the VVD invest in reception in the region or will the VVD shorten on reception in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u186	We are going to cut short when countries do not cooperate. That's the root and stick approach. I know that Mr Sjoerdsma always adds an extra root to ensure that things are done. We use the carrot and the stick. We are willing to invest and help et cetera. So do we. But we also use that stick. If you don't take responsibility for your own continent, you don't have to get those development funds from us either. It can also have consequences for, for example, issuing visas if countries refuse. That is precisely for the protection of the Netherlands, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u187	Very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u188	The question was, and I just want an answer to that, whether the VVD is going to invest in care in the region. Yes or no? I don't need a whole trial story about the carrot and the stick. I know all that; I am also the spokesman for foreign policy. I would like to answer the question whether the VVD is going to invest now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u189	If we put into an election programme that we want to take care of in the region, we will also invest in it. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mr. Chairman. Do you remember them, those sounding slogans from the VVD four years ago in the election? "More punishment and less understanding for criminals" and all those variations of "blue on the street"? Four years later, we take stock of the situation and we have to conclude that we had to show a great deal of understanding for all the blunders and all the scandals and that of more blue in the street bar. In fact, without the pressure of the Chamber to raise substantially more money, the national police had now failed by her. It beeps and cracks at the Public Prosecutor's Office and the quality of justice is under serious pressure. Taking stock of the situation, my group can only conclude that the VVD has shown itself to be a poor guardian of the rule of law. Mr President, you know me, I'd rather play the ball than play the man, but if I read that this minister would have been just as sweetly the director of our, by the way beautiful, Artis zoo, I think he's homesick back to Ernst Hirsch Ballin, now Professor of Constitutional Law, with the right to capital R in his genes. After his ministry, Hirsch Ballin also went to Amsterdam, but to the UVA, not to Artis. Let's see what this minister's gotten himself into. The crime rate is dropping. This Minister is proud of that. But is crime really falling in our country? The VVD shouts it so loudly that she has come to believe in it herself, but with it she has lost contact with society. Victims of crime are no longer reporting. The cops aren't gonna do anything about it anyway. It's not helping. Research confirms this line. The WODC issued a report two months ago. The declaration readiness decreased from 29% in 2015 to 26%. If we do not take the declarations on the Internet, the willingness to report has fallen to 19%. I'm gonna call in those Internet returns, because these people are often told with reverse mail that nothing is done with their report. The CDA is very concerned about this trend. How many reporters are not told that other crimes are given priority, that their case does not fall within the search criteria or that the police are not able to deal with everything? The CDA receives weekly, no even daily e-mails from citizens who have lost confidence in the police and our government. What is the Minister's response to this? What is his answer to these legitimate concerns? The overall resolution rate has been around 25 for years. However, some crimes are underneath them. The 2015 police report shows that 9.4% of home invasions were resolved. That's a creepy low percentage. Citizens often feel insecure and unsafe in their own homes after a home invasion. I mean, in the case of crimes involving such a huge emotional impact, criminal law shouldn't fail, right? Then how can the Minister say he's so proud of his approach to high-impact crimes? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Another example of a crime that does not seem to be solved at all and where the report does not seem to pay off at all, is internal summit. This form of crime drives victims to despair. Their powerlessness has touched us deeply. That is why the CDA drew up an own-initiative paper on this matter last Friday. To explain: almost half a million people in the Netherlands indicate that they have become victims of internal summits. Those aren't just older people or people who aren't so skilled with a computer. They are also highly educated, working thirties,zzp'ers, fathers, mothers, minors. Only 50,000 of them report it. 159 cases were processed into a BOLO by the police. This is an unprecedentedly low number, even though sometimes several declarations are the basis of one investigation. The CDA therefore wants additional investment to be made in the police department of the national hotline Internet scam, which deals with these issues. That's the point we're going to highlight today. This is in line with budgetary treatment. However, we are in favour of more. Once a report has been filed, the stories of the damage to the perpetrator appear to be an extremely difficult problem. The CDA has also made proposals for this, and we would like to receive a response from the cabinet shortly. We feel that the cabinet is on our side, because we have read in the latest articles on victimisation that the cabinet is thinking about using the government debt collection agency, which we all know so well when we have driven 5 km/h too fast on the A2, even when people have become victims of Internet crime. I shall return to today's budget debate. In recent years, the cabinet has been under pressure from the opposition, and we have already said that we have made additional funds available. I see Mr Verhoeven standing, so I think we are going back to the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u191	Yeah, if the chairman lets me, because I'd be happy to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u192	Are you going to continue on this point, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u193	No, I'm done with the bit about Internet crime, which I've expanded a little bit. I fully understand that Mr Verhoeven has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u194	Mrs Van Toorenburg felt that very well. We've talked about the Internet before. I can be positive about this CDA initiative, but of course I am concerned about something else, namely that the CDA is threatening to destroy the Internet in other areas. I'm thinking of breaking open encryption, affecting the Internet structure by the government, hacking into our computers and smartphones, putting in a dragnet for all kinds of data, saving our phone data. These are all matters for which the CDA is full-bodied and they are all steps towards a police state. If we are going to watch citizens 24/7 on all fronts, is that the Netherlands in which the CDA wants to live in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mr Verhoeven is making it huge: the CDA wants to destroy the Internet. That's pretty special, isn't it? The CDA wants the police and the D.A. to have certain powers to make his and my world safer. I have often had debates with Mrs Bergkamp on child pornography, for example. D66 also wants us to take good action against it, but every time the police and the Public Prosecutor indicate that they are powerless. I think it is important that we give the police and the Public Prosecutor the power to intervene, with the permission of the Judge Commissioner. We think it is important that we always find D66 on our side to do so with guarantees. We do indeed believe that our security services should also be able to go on the Internet, because the Public Prosecutor and the police themselves indicate that the criminals are also on the Internet. Let us not be powerless: we sometimes have to intervene on the Internet, but we do have important safeguards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u196	Everyone in the Chamber wants to tackle child pornography and fight terrorism. That's what everyone wants. The important thing is that we take effective action. The CDA is for measures where innocent citizens are almost continuously followed by the government on all fronts of their lives. What's the result? The result is an unsafe internet, because we all introduce vulnerabilities and gaps into the Internet, and a huge data mountain, which nobody can tell, not even the intelligence services. Very often it appears that on the basis of the current information a great deal is already known about the potential offenders. Why does the CDA opt for an unsafe Netherlands with bad measures, which is also at the expense of the privacy of innocent citizens who are 17 million Dutch people who are being followed without being suspected?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u197	That's the gray turned D66 image: that we supposedly follow everyone on the internet without any limitation. You know better than anyone else, President-in-Office of the Council, that you are always generous about these debates. We think it is important that you can respond to the Internet and that this always happens with the right safeguards. I continue to find it fascinating that the foreman of D66 is blowing bombs at the interrupting microphone against the Minister of Security and Justice because he didn't know where all those criminals were. How could anyone in the Netherlands have gone from A to B? How is it that the cameras didn't see him? How is it possible we didn't know where he was on the Internet? How could we not have tapped his phone? If it were up to D66, we could have done jack shit. Let us be very clear: fortunately we can take a number of measures, but D66 is never the case. Excuse me, I shouldn't have said those words just now; they belong in the body register.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u198	I think Mr Verhoeven needs to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u199	These images by Mrs Van Toorenburg will scare off a lot of terrorists, I think, because now she is exaggerating even worse than I did. Here's what's important. This is not good for the quality of the debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u200	It's gonna be more fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u201	It doesn't have to be fun, it just needs to be clear. The CDA says: D66 wants to know where a certain terrorist is, D66 wants to know why phone calls aren't being recorded, D66 wants to know why the mailbox remains unanswered on weekends. These are indeed things that D66 has repeatedly asked this minister. I just asked the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u202	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u203	But that is a completely different matter from new laws with all technical measures to follow people. That's about the basics in order. I would like to say to the CDA: let us choose the basis on order and not for tapping, tracking and constantly spying on innocent citizens, with some sort of false security as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u204	We need to stick to the facts. When Mr Pechtold was so full-hearted here against this cabinet about what had not been done, it was not clear at all that no telephone had been recorded. At that time it was not clear that the Internet was not finished. So that wasn't the point at all. It is simply a question of D66 with Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Pechtold every time we want to take a number of measures to keep an eye on people. But every time, D66 is the party that doesn't want it. Fine, but just say that. Don't say you want all kinds of measures taken, then you put your hands on the police, so she can't do anything at all. We think it is important that the police should be able to do a number of things, but always with guarantees. That is why we will probably have a debate on this next week. We will be very careful to ensure that it is always the judges' Commissioners or the judges themselves who give permission to do so, and that it never happens just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u205	From the rhetoric back to the content. The CDA's plan to help victims on the Internet sounded really good, but if I heard it right, it was mainly criminal law. We want the CJIB, the government collection agency, to help victims compensate for their damage. But I'm thinking about that girl from Werkdam whose sex movie was posted. She has to go through to the judge to recover damage from the person who posted the video. That's a civil matter. Can we not take this directly into account in our question to the government? We're supposed to be on the victim's side, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u206	That's a very fair point. Last Friday we presented our own initiative paper. That's where I'm gonna make the two of them. Victims are often told by the police: we can't deal with your case. Then the criminal justice process stops immediately. Then someone starts a civil case. If, in the end, there may be a judge's ruling, the victim must go after it again to ensure that the money can be collected. It is important to consider whether the CJIB can also contribute to this. Actually, it's a criminal case. Someone is forced to be sent to a civilian judge. You'd want the government's instruments to serve the victim, too. Let us stand with each other more alongside the victims instead of leaving them alone. An investment is being made in the overall security chain, but not otherwise than thanks to the opposition. The SP fought hard for the police. D66 did her best for the D.A.'s office. We as CDA have fought very hard for justice. Fortunately, these investments have been made, at least it seems. In the actual execution I get a fearful feeling. Look at the state's attorney's office, with the 13 million that comes in. The Minister writes: "At present, the detailed plans for the specific use of these funds are being worked out. On this basis, the funds from the supplementary item will be transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the budget of V and J." Do I just read there that nothing has happened yet and that, if a plan is not made first, no money is going to go at all? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. We do know where the money for the D.A.'s office could eventually go. I could give you three, four, maybe ten examples where the water is now on the lips of the people. Think of the undermining crime of the drug lords in the South of the Netherlands and the Mocro war in Amsterdam. There's plenty to do. In the middle of residential neighborhoods, serious criminals cause trouble. They empty their shells there. Last week it turned out how difficult it is in liquidation proceedings to get a case done. Wouldn't it be advisable to add some manpower to that? It's just suggestions. Speaking of organized crime, let me ask you a question. Is this minister going on his hard line to fight drug crime? All that crazy that keeps popping up about this so-called soft drug policy... The CDA therefore once again calls on the Minister to stand firm and not to give in, especially now that his own party seems to bow down to the powerful drug lords and the influential lobby of the drug fanatics. A completely different subject: juvenile crime. The CDA is at the cradle of juvenile criminal law, but we see that under pressure from decentralisation and the shift to municipalities, attention to youth and youth crime is watering down. There is still no rapid inclusion, within three months, of juvenile offenders, even though there is a broad support for this House's ruling. It is still not in order, not even in Rotterdam, an important city where much is happening. When is the cabinet finally gonna fix it? We look at the budget and we see that all the posts dealing with youth are being cut. Young people's protection and youth sanctions are being cut short. The Minister is hiding behind all kinds of occasional expenditure and the decline in the number of youth groups. No, Mr President, in the end there will be cuts! Then the Minister also writes that the support by the Ministry has been phased out and is placed at that Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. Let that be just a centre where the minister also wanted to cut short. But that's not gonna happen: there's an amendment that's not gonna happen. I have heard it said before this afternoon, but I also notice that weird idea about youth. We read, and have also heard the Secretary of State say, that the cabinet is in the process of proposing to raise the criminal age for the liability of children to 14 or 16. The Secretary of State also explained this in a general consultation. He said, "I have a whole stack of files and scientific reports in front of me. Yeah, well, you'd have to take notice of that. You'll see that it has to be done and that's why I'm going to continue with it." At the same time, the VVD election programme states that it may want to reduce the age of juvenile crime. Then I don't get it anymore. I then put a question to the Minister, but I do not get an answer to that, because he moves it like some kind of hot potato. How do you say that? Oh, or as a kind of cabbage out in front of itself to 2018. We want to know what's going on. The Secretary of State says he has well-founded scientific research on the basis of which he intends to raise the age and at the same time the VVD Ministry says: we're going to bring it down. What about it? It can't be both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mrs Van Toorenburg talks about youth. Adolescent criminal law is intended for the group up to 22 years of age. My group is an opponent of juvenile criminal law, because it is not youth. Let's have a little reflection. Three suspects of a rape of a woman in her own car were reported at Search Requested yesterday. Those suspects are between 16 and 20 years old. Is that youth?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u208	Well, that depends. That is precisely where the power of juvenile criminal law lay. The PVV was against and the SP was against. Then I thought, "We're right in the middle, and that's top of the line." What happened is we're looking at what's going on with someone. We do that to make sure someone doesn't repeat themselves. There are a lot of 16-year-olds as director I have often seen them who are mature and you just have to go hard on them. They are subject to adult criminal law. Fine. There are also a kind of 21-year-olds and in that case you can make society safer by better adjusting them. We have said: bespoke. Luckily, that's what happened. In addition, we are widely supported by the Chamber. Now I'd like to see it get hands and feet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u209	Experience has shown that judges are going to punish softer if you give them a handle to do so. That's exactly why you shouldn't use that juvenile justice. That's only being jacked up and there's always looking back in a way: yes, maybe they're not fully grown up by 21 years. We are talking about people who are allowed to vote and who are allowed to do all kinds of nice things that Christian parties generally forbid. When it comes to criminal liability, it is youth at once. My group does not think that this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u210	We are not going to repeat the entire debate on juvenile criminal law, but what the PVV now indicates is a little bit of the truth. On the contrary, we have maintained that young people can be informed of adult criminal law. We had even added an increase in the penalties, but unfortunately the VVD ride out again under pressure from the PvdA. We would have liked to have seen that differently, because that would have meant that judges would have been able to deal with someone more often for a longer period of time. That is necessary, because it turns out that some children have been so horribly derailed that you can no longer adjust them in a short time. We have therefore made sure that tailor-made work can be done. Unfortunately, we find that there has been some kind of impotence. The children who need treatment are the ones we want to give them. The Court has made a broad-based ruling on this. So let us make sure that happens in the end. I'm moving to another vulnerable group. Last year, the investigation report on Linda van der Giesen's murder was presented, a horrible murder that shocked family, friends, colleagues and actually society as a whole. Linda reported stalking and threatening her ex ten days before the murder. Research by two experts, Series and De Ruiter, shows that Linda van der Giesen's case is unfortunately not unique. They have analysed all kinds of cases since 2010 and come to the conclusion that there are 153 similar cases. Women have left their lives at the hands of an ex-partner. These cases are consistent with this case. These experts advocate a completely different intake to the police, much more analytical. They've been looking at what's happening in Arizona right now. There a methodology was developed at the university by Jill Messing. We would like to know from this cabinet whether it intends to adopt this method. After all, we know that people in the top of the ministry and the police would very much like to do so, but they somehow run into a wall, and this is in line with the recommendations of the Unicorn Committee. It is a method of making sure that you can quickly assess which woman is at risk, and when and when not. We would like that. Let's take a small side step towards intimidation. The municipality of Amsterdam, and as I understand it, The Hague, intends to limit what is called street intimidation. I am not talking about friendly whistling, even though some people may be disturbed by it. I always think it's kind of funny that somehow you can be in touch with each other. However, this is about intimidation, about taunting and assaulting women. That's a thorn in the eye. What strikes me is that The Hague too would like this approach. Here too, we want to ensure that the victims can make a final report and that measures are taken. Then we get the feeling that this might be something we should arrange for the municipalities here in The Hague for all the women in the country. Surely it can't be that a woman in Amsterdam will be better protected from people who molest them or worse than anywhere else? That's impossible, isn't it? A criminalisation through a general local regulation may even be fatal to a judge. What can this cabinet do for these women throughout the Netherlands and not only in Amsterdam? Finally, I come to the national police. Of course, we would like to talk to this cabinet about this. Soon, the national police will be celebrating their fourth birthday. It's a birthday party. Then of course the question is: was it a party? At least it wasn't for the neighborhood agents. Despite all these warm words from the Minister to their address, we regret to note that the number of district agents is still inadequate. They are even less employable than before and they may end up spending too little time on their neighborhood. We had agreed that district agents could pay 80% of their time attention to their neighborhood. However, they are still multitasking, because they are being pulled out of the service every time to do something else. We speak a lot of neighborhood cops. As far as we are concerned, the national police are celebrating their birthday, but at least it's not a party for the district police.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u211	Excuse me, I'm reacting a little slow, but I still have a question about street harassment against women in the public domain. I also read about the initiative in Amsterdam. I have been making an initiative proposal myself for some time now. I understand the question to the cabinet: what else is there to do about it? However, I would like to ask Mrs Van Toorenburg whether she is also prepared to take part in this initiative if the legislation is not adequate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u212	I'd love to. I am glad that Mr Marcouch has already made a move. I was also sparring a bit with my unreputed policy officer Jan-Pieter Dees. I would like to continue with Mr Marcouch, because I do think it is very important to ensure that we do something about it. I'm a little worried about how it's gonna be if Amsterdam does it alone. Our principle of legality may also mean that we have to deal here with the criminal offences and the description of the crime. Maybe you can't do this in a city like this, 'cause then maybe it's gonna die. So I'd like to hang out. Then we can make a wonderful initiative bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u213	I welcome this positive response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u214	I was doing my analysis of the guests at the birthday party. I was just finishing with the neighborhood cop. He wasn't celebrating a party. I see Mr Van Nispen jumping forward every time. Every time I think, "Here he comes, but he doesn't come."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u215	I thought I was gonna keep an eye on Mr. Van Nispen. Mr Van Nispen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u216	Thank you for this announcement. Mrs Van Toorenburg said a while back that the SP voted against the Adolescent Criminal Law Act, but that is not correct. We voted in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u217	That was in the First Chamber, excuse me. In the First Chamber, the SP was against it. Oh, terrible against it, along with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u218	We are now in a position to vote against it, with an explanation of vote which shows that we do support the customisation. We voted in favour in the House of Representatives. I think Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that. However, I have a question on a very different subject. I do not know if Mrs Van Toorenburg will be able to make any further comments, but it is about judicial error. In NRC Handelsblad, the CDA reacts moderately positively to proposals to at least recover errors. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg recognise that these possibilities are now very limited? Does it recognise that the thresholds are very high to re-examine a questionable conviction and to reveal a possible error?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u219	Will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u220	I'm not going to go back on that, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to be very brief. I think that Mr Van Nispen of the SP is right to raise a point. Every time you look back at a very tragic miscarriage of justice, you see that people had to move heaven and earth to make them right. Indeed, I think it is important to look again and again at what we can improve on this. I can very well imagine that on certain parts the thresholds should be slightly lower. I don't want to hold anyone unjustly, just like I don't want to release anyone unjustly. We discussed something else at the time, because a number of scientists pointed this out to us. They said: beware of a low threshold, because then you get the idea in the justice system that there are still all kinds of life buoys. We finally come to a verdict and maybe we doubt it a little bit, but then a life buoy can always be thrown out somewhere. I don't want to. I want every statement to be just right. I would therefore first like to invest in the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and justice to avoid errors. I would like to see with Mr Van Nispen how you might be able to deal with errors more quickly. However, I would also like to look at the situation in which judges may be too easily sentenced because they think: well, if I am really wrong, there is always a fourth half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u221	We find each other in preventing error and when it comes to investing in police, prosecutors, NFI and justice. I myself have doubts about the fact that judges are going to judge very easily. I think that's their honor too. In any case, it is good to hear that the CDA has a positive attitude towards a call to the cabinet, which may come tomorrow, to come up with proposals to make errors easier to repair. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u222	I'm just gonna listen carefully to what the cabinet says. Again, I was analyzing the guests at the party. I told you the neighborhood cops aren't celebrating. So it's a party at the BOLO? Unfortunately, I'm forced to conclude that it's not a party at all for the BOLO and the detectives either. We have called on the Minister to get in touch with the police to see how it is possible that there are still detectives who have been copying files in a copy booth for three days. The minister said that he had developed a vision of detection and that "additional measures will follow by moving from the analysis towards the vision." When I read that sentence, I thought, "Can anyone tell me what's gonna happen here?" I think that's still too little. We then asked for a little more insight into the strengthening of the search. There was no message in this analysis of the police at all. That is why I am asking today what progress has been made on strengthening the investigation, which the Minister himself believes is urgently needed. Is there an elaborate plan yet? The question is, of course, whether it is a celebration in dealing with cybercrime. In an interview with De Telegraaf, Chief Constable Akerboom recently said that the police will have to make a huge modernisation effort in the field of ICT. Fortunately, strengthening the cybercrime approach is a priority for the Minister, but it is still really insufficient. There are still insufficient people. The question is even how many people have already been hired. Perhaps the Minister can say something about it, because it is not a party when it comes to dealing with cybercrime. I told you in an interrupting debate, it wasn't a party at the state police station. It indicates that it must leave things on the shelf at the moment and that there is not enough independent research. If we want an honest government, we must be able to trust that if something goes wrong somewhere, research will be carried out. We don't see how the National Police can handle it. What measures is the Minister going to take to ensure that when the national police celebrate a party, the national police can also join the party? Unfortunately, it is not a celebration for the citizens either. Police stations are closing down. There's been reckless cuts. People can hardly call in the help of the police. What about, for example, mobile working on the street, when there is no police station left? In the end, does the police have adequate equipment? We're told we don't. We would like to hear the Minister's views on this. The driving times are still terrible. You'd better live in the Groningen De Marne. There the police stood in 30.5% of the cases within 15 minutes at the door at a prio 1 notification......................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister says that there are enough vehicles on average, but a police officer in Uden has little use if a police car is available in Den Helder. The Minister has an eye for the citizens, but above all for citizens who can help the police. I read about pilots on civic participation in tackling cybercrime. It is a pity that Mr Verhoeven is not here... Oh, he is. This is a very nice point for him, because he's always so busy with cybercrime. The Minister intends to use citizens much more against cybercrime. I'm gonna get a little worried about that. Does the police intend to volunteer all digital geniuses with the police to eventually resolve the flaw in police expertise in cybercrime? I'm getting a little worried about that. I read this now: "By using citizens - also in the form of police volunteers - specific expertise can be used in the intake and detection of cybercrime." We shouldn't want that with each other. Finally. Where was the party with the national police? That was at the Central Works Council. There was the bar and angry. It has disturbed us that this minister has played down that little bit. I was really sorry about that. I am glad that an investigation is being carried out, but let this Minister take this kind of problem seriously. I think it is really disturbing for the officers on the street and for society to see that we have carried out an important reorganisation to the national police, but that apparently a lot has happened at the summit in cooperation with the works council. It doesn't suit the Minister to be a little stingy about it. Finally, let me criticize the Minister and ask him not to do that again, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mrs Van Toorenburg ends as she began, namely critically. The first assessment of six years of VVD policy on Security and Justice was extremely critical. I can share that judgment, because I think that at the bottom of the line the verdict is negative. But it did start with the choice to put this ministry on the scaffolding this way. That was also a choice of the CDA group. Mrs Van Toorenburg said she was homesick to former Minister Hirsch Ballin, because of his state of law. This former minister said that the name change went wrong. Security has come first and we have to go back to a ministry where Justice, right, comes first. Is that, with Mrs Van Toorenburg's homesickness, also the commitment of the CDA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u224	I don't think it's so much about naming or size. It depends on integrity and the way in which such a ministry is run. I also think it is not a solution to put another stick or to pull it apart. I hear from the police that they shouldn't think about that. I also remember very well from Ernst Hirsch Ballin how difficult it was for him, for example, that he was dealing with the crime scene, that the Home Office was dealing with the police and that they were fighting each other again in the chain and came to nothing. I don't believe in another reorganisation. I believe that we in the Chamber must now, together with this cabinet, ensure that the national police become a success. I do believe that it is approached with more integrity and more rule of law, but that is not due to a name tick or to a merger. It depends on whether you run it as a VVD party office or not. Don't ever let that happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u225	I wasn't talking about splitting up the ministry or a reorganisation. I was really talking about naming, just with reference to the rule of law. Just referring to the state of law of the ministry, former Minister Hirsch Ballin said: let it take precedence. That is more than a "name finch," as Mrs Van Toorenburg says a little condescendingly. It is a fundamental choice that the right prevails. What we have seen in the past few years is that safety was paramount, including in the imagery. This may lead to a quick quote of those sharp words, as if it were 'a VVD party office', as if the chocolate letters in De Telegraaf were in the forefront. When justice comes first, it's gonna be different. Then it's gonna be a different ministry than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u226	In all honesty, when I look at the threats that have happened to us in recent years, I do not mind that security plays such a big role as long as it always goes hand in hand with the rule of law and everything related to it. So I'm really not much of a name. I agree with the Christian Union that we need to stick together to ensure that it is more balanced, that it is indeed not only limited to chocolate letters in De Telegraaf, but that the rule of law is respected. It's under pressure from time to time under this cabinet. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u227	However, I would like to encourage you on that aspect. Perhaps Mrs Van Toorenburg, when it comes to that name, could once again talk to Mr Hirsch Ballin, to whom Mrs Van Toorenburg is homesick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u228	I love talking to Ernst Hirsch Ballin.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u229	Mr. Chairman. In front of us is the budget for 2017. I am going to talk in particular about the issue of asylum. How different was the discussion a year ago? Much too late the cabinet had responded to the arrival of many asylum seekers in the Netherlands. This has caused a lot of unrest over the past year. With residents first of all, but also with municipal authorities. And let's not forget the COA employees who had to respond ad hocly to increased demand. There seemed to be continuous misjudgements. Eventually it turned out that the plans could go back into the fridge. Where this is coming from? Most likely the setting of fences on the Balkans has had a greater effect than the deal with Turkey. Why is this important? For two reasons. One: the citizen is not crazy and is now looking forward to the VVDs in this cabinet hitting themselves on the chest, while what goes well, rather happens despite them thanks to them. Two: Why stick to a deal where you are negotiating with the constitutional principles of Europe and transferring six billion to Turkey, when the question is whether this deal is still necessary in this way? Yesterday we voted in this Chamber on a motion to suspend negotiations with Turkey. The VVD and the PvdA voted against. What if thousands and thousands of people run into one again because of all kinds of circumstances? So what has changed structurally in refugee policy? The CDA has previously advocated the adaptation of the Refugee Convention. The VVD was against that. Today some space was created and that's nice. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the following question: is this Secretary of State working on this in Europe? The new European plans, which were discussed a week and a half ago, the so-called GEAS, even consider removing the status of displaced persons. So what is this Secretary of State doing in the longer term to prevent a situation such as that that occurred in 2015? Previously, the CDA advocated joining the plans of the German minister De Maizière to return boats with migrants immediately. An application for refugee protection can then be made from a number of places. In my opinion, this is the only way to prevent the dramas at sea where people drown daily. "Finally a German who agrees with me," exclaimed the Secretary of State, or words of that kind. Good. So the question is how this issue came to the agenda of the JHA Council and what steps have been taken there. In the end, an adaptation of the Refugee Convention is needed. That is why I am asking for this very specific clarification today. Bed-bath-bread. A cabinet crisis was averted earlier by the government's plans to develop a plan with municipalities for asylum seekers who had been processed. In the end, it was decided to unplug it. The deal was skinned except for one hair. Apparently it didn't fit in with the tough argument that the VVD wants to keep, that at the same time you make agreements with municipalities to catch people who otherwise end up on the street. What really needs to happen to people who have been tried is to evict them to the country of origin. Last week I asked how many people were deported to Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire and Mali, with which Koenders made arrangements earlier this year. The numbers are embarrassingly low. How many Ethiopians are being deported now? They are now cracking a building in Amsterdam. Millions go from Europe to that country. It is indigestible for normal Dutch people who abide by the law to look at it. I'd like to get an answer to that, too. A fair asylum system. At the request of the CDA, the rules have been tightened for asylum seekers who commit criminal offences. These asylum seekers are no longer entitled to stay in the Netherlands. The same applies to asylum seekers from safe countries. Once again, this is something the CDA has insisted on. However, the Secretary of State cannot live up to it. The situation in Groningen showed that too. He can't even get Moroccans out of the country. Then I'm talking about illegal Moroccans reporting here for asylum. The Secretary of State has now announced that it will reduce return support, speed up asylum seekers' detention and speed up procedures for those who do not have the right to stay. In my view, these are not new measures, but already existing ones. Have they been used too little in recent years and why? Are the measures which are now being announced then political language or are they actually being implemented in the same way? For which safe third countries do we still have generous return payments? Is it not wise to look at them now and not only when the problems are getting back over the head of the Secretary of State, as with the criminal behaviour of most Moroccans who are reporting for asylum in this country, when it is crystal clear that they cannot claim that protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u230	Mr. Chairman. I have an important story to tell today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u231	We're all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u232	That's nice. My story is about big dates, the need to connect, the bankruptcy of justice and the need for renewal. My story is about splitting anger, about my great ambition to bring people together and about dealing with each other in the right way on social media. It's nice to get a question about these big themes right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u233	Mr Recourt has just said one sentence, Mr Sjoerdsma. And you find that so fascinating?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u234	I have a very short question regarding this table of contents of what is to come. I noticed that Mr Marcouch did not have a minute's speaking time. Nor did the PvdA's asylum spoke in previous budgets. So I would like to ask Mr Recourt whether we can ask him about asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u235	Yes, that can be done at the end, but Mr Marcouch also speaks, you know. All PvdA minutes are with one speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u236	They have all filled in huge speaking time here, Mr Sjoerdsma, including Mr Marcouch. So.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u237	I'm gonna do 40 minutes according to the list, but that's 20-20, I'll just say for the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u238	Yeah, I got that right here. Oh, you don't. Oooooh. That is reassuring: Mr Marcouch will also have his turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u239	There goes my big words, with which I wanted to make sure that everyone would hang on my lips. I'm just gonna start over! No, the rest is also of great importance. We live in a revolutionary time, a time of great changes driven by the explosive growth of data. This data revolution affects everyone in their daily lives, at work and at school. This data revolution brings us a lot of good, but, like everything else in life, it also has a downside. Today, I want to map the consequences of the data revolution for V and J in two areas: social media and cybercrime. How do we influence our personal data? How can they be used? What do we do with data processing that is discriminatory? And how far can companies intervene in our personal lives? Do national borders still meet in the world wide web? It seems that we do not decide for ourselves what is good and what is bad for us, but that commercial companies do so for us, driven by financial interest. The morals of the most important social development since the industrial revolution are now left to Facebook, Apple and Google. The Labour Party cannot see how only the market determines who benefits from digitisation and who lags behind. Many Dutch people use Facebook, LinkedIn or Twitter. That is right, because social media brings people into contact with each other. Grandma stays informed about her grandchildren through their Facebook pages and grandchildren in turn see what their grandmother is doing. Hobbyists and sports enthusiasts find like-minded people in the neighborhood and around the world. Borders have faded and friendships are made for life. Social media also express opinions from people who do not get a voice from traditional media. Social media make the world smaller and faster. We must nurture these benefits. But they're in danger because we left one thing behind. We forgot to set standards. Aggression, discrimination and lies are barely corrected. While in the physical world we usually know how to deal with each other properly, far too many people lose this decency when they meet digitally. If we don't like an opinion, the bringer will be digitally destroyed. Threats are the order of the day. Politicians may have gotten a lot of skin, but it's terrible when this happens to people who just say what they think, who believe, who are fans of a football club and who want to come true to that. We all know the shit they sometimes get over them. It can't be described with a pen. Social media are still in danger. With fake news and manipulation, the value of the truth is shattered. How are we supposed to get closer to each other when lies become facts? Under the guise of freedom of expression, one's own is imposed equally on the other. The government stands by and looks at it. The idea that social media is one big cafe is wrong. You have to think of it more and more as a newspaper with a huge range and an almost infinite memory. As a newspaper can't do everything, so can social media. It is therefore high time that society again decided what is right, what can, what is right, what is desirable and what needs to be combated. There is an urgent task for the government to standardise legislation and organise enforcement in such a way that it fits a fast, digital environment. Rapid enforcement requires collaboration with data administrators, guardians and developers. There is also a task for social media users to correct, address companies and be critical. But there is also a pitfall, where we fall into when we shoot through in censorship, political correctness or manipulation. That makes the direction of solution reasonably clear, but that does not apply to the solution itself. It's harder. A committee should therefore be set up to identify what we can do to set standards for Facebook, Google and Twitter, and to the users of their services. Experts need to find out what is or is not up to the government, what is forbidden but better enforced, what users can do and what business is up to. The blotting and splitting must be stopped in order to allow the positive, connecting forces of social media to return to space. I therefore ask the Minister to come forward with a proposal for such a committee. The government shouldn't decide what can or can't be done. A broad group of users and experts should look at how we can arrange for social media to be able to deal with each other properly and for people who behave badly to be contacted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u240	I am glad that, as a Chamber, I now seem to be able, with my group, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Recourt too, to talk a little more about the digital side of security, about social media and the dangers for people. It is good that Mr Recourt pays attention to this. I have to think about his proposal to set up a committee. Is Mr Recourt also in favour of the D66 proposal to introduce a duty of care for large Internet companies? They have a knowledge origin on many users, who do not know what the consequences of behaviour on the Internet can be. I speak of a duty of care that is somewhat similar to that in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u241	I can very well imagine that awareness is part of that. It is also far from enough to address people at risk. The proposal to appeal to large Internet companies to the fact that they have a duty of care for the services they offer sounds good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u242	That's good. And what does the Labour Party think about the division of labour between the Netherlands and Europe? I think you have a responsibility for your own 17 million citizens, but world players like Facebook and Google will not be very impressed by a Dutch commission because of their cross-borderity. What opportunities does Mr Recourt see for a cross-border European approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u243	What underpins digital development is the lack of national borders. However, we are in a national parliament that has to stick to borders. That is one of the major problems I would like to put to that committee. It is fine to regulate the European system, but before it is done, we will be 20 years further. So I want to start in the Netherlands. Social media, that's just one example. The question of who sets the standard can also be asked when using our personal data, the development of self-driving cars, the analysis of data, the posting of nude photos, the use of decoy children in the fight against child pornography, and so on, and so on. The data revolution brings unprecedented new possibilities. Whether we want to use it all and how we want to do it is up to us, not to technicians and commercial boys from some very powerful multinationals. Again, is the government prepared to set up such a committee? Then there's my second topic. I'm here to report a break-in to the police. First of all, I get the question of where the crime scene is, where it happened. When the answer is "internet," the system stores up. Crime in the Netherlands is moving to the internet at a high rate, because the chance of getting caught is absurdly low. This is because the legislation is not up-to-date and there is far too little knowledge in the organisations. The high-quality knowledge that exists is part of a too small specialist team and is not being held, causing people to drop out. Also international cooperation is not in order and is not publicly thought out what huge consequences digitalisation has for criminal justice. There's no crime without digital trace. The writing of minutes, for example, is huge in 1995. Children's porn is a fully digital industry in the Netherlands. Very soon, having specialised cyber agents is no longer enough, but all police officers, detectives, prosecutors and criminal justice officers must have that knowledge of cybercrime. This requires a different staff policy and another organisation. This also calls for a ministry that is open to innovation, which realises that only in cooperation with market players can digital developments be monitored and, perhaps even more importantly, large-scale prevention can be set up. Because right here, there's a world to be won. It requires digital civil rights, clarity about what can be asked of providers, how citizens can effectively report digitally and what the police can and can do with big data. The Computer Crime Act III is just the beginning. How does the Minister deal with digital crime? Before the elections, can he and will he come up with a plan of action for the future of cybercrime, from prevention to prosecution? By analogy with the Divorce Challenge, knowledge from outside must be stimulated and processed. Minister, Secretary of State, I would therefore like to end this section with an appeal. Embrace the data revolution, but don't be blind to its fundamental impact; get to work with it with urgency! From the future to the present: the story of the bankruptcy of justice and the need for renewal. When people get in trouble, they often seek help and protection from the government to resolve the conflict. Think divorce, neighborly quarrels, or victim of a crime. But the government, the rule of law more and more often doesn't give up at home. Less and less legal problems are solved: 42% in 2014. The number of lawyers and legal aid insurers is increasing and the number of unofficial dispute settlement agents, such as trade unions and consumer organisations, is falling and is being cut. The number of people coming to court with a dispute is getting lower and lower: 4% in 2014. When people get to court, they have faith in the judge, but the trust that the judge actually solves the case is a lot lower: three in five. And then we haven't talked about criminal law. More than half of the unsubs are repeating themselves. Our conflict resolution procedures leave far too many people in the cold. That is not surprising either: it is procedures that increase differences rather than reduce them, which are aimed at the profit of one person and the loss of another. So it's procedures that separate people instead of connecting. We have to do something about that. The sad conclusion is, however, that we cannot do without the current administration of justice. The sad conclusion is that if we have many hundreds of millions of euros extra for Justice in a battle, we have to use that money to keep the existing system going: a lot of extra money for extra lawyers, while they deal with fewer and fewer cases. There's no other way. There are alternatives. There are solutions that really help people. There is an enormous ambition in the country to tackle these problems. For example, look at the Divorce Challenge. Last year's motion to halve the number of fighting divorces and to write a challenge for them is, in any case, a huge success as far as the stakes are concerned: more than 500 plans were made to get children out of trouble and plans to improve the existing dysfunctional system. I would like to thank the Minister and the relevant officials in the Ministry for the implementation of this motion. I remind them of the enormous potential and energy of this. Use it! Let me give you another example. Where are the mediation laws, Minister? Would you like to submit your own legislative initiative before the elections? Why do so many complain that ambition and innovation have been demolished from these original own-initiative laws? I'd be very sorry to hear that. In order to renew and improve, you must always go through conservationism and vested interests. But let's not be afraid of that, because it's so necessary. And why don't we pick up mediation in criminal law and let it bleed to death? The Labour Party is a strong supporter of reparation law. Give people who it's about, the responsibility back, as happens with mediation in criminal law. The recent pilot had a success rate of 80. The victim, the perpetrator and society are the great winners if there is a lasting solution. Mediation in criminal law is not a miracle cure, but it must become a standard remedy, just like community service. The first step to provide this structuralally on a small scale in the Netherlands costs 1.5 million. I have tabled an amendment together with the SP, D66, the Christian Union and GroenLinks to achieve this. Mediation reconciles and connects people after a neighborhood dispute or discrimination via Twitter, prevents recurrence and makes people and neighborhoods stronger. We need renewal. We need to get as far away from the procedures with lawyers and judges as possible, who are holding us prisoner in conflict. We need to look for solutions aimed at agreement. We must move towards the beginning of the conflict and towards solutions that give people responsibility rather than decline. Above all, we need to move towards a rule of law that serves people with a good outcome in those few moments in their lives, so that the government is there for them again. So renew it. It's gonna take money and guts. I have spoken today about money for mediation in criminal law and I support a number of amendments tabled by colleagues who serve the same purpose. I am already saying that no matter what coalition comes next, we need money for renewal. I've got two loose ends. The first concerns child protection measures. If it is up to the cabinet, they will not be imposed by the judge in the future. That is a bad and counterproductive proposal. The judge's talking about removals. My colleague Ypma and others have already spoken out against this and I repeat it here. This measure will only enter into force financially in 2019. But there still has to be a law. This measure has also been announced in this budget. Hence my appeal: leave this part of the law that still has to be made, because that is so efficient. My second point is bed-bath-bread. The meeting failed. Has any progress been made in the last week? Have the conversations been reopened? Are there any municipalities that reported to the Secretary of State? Before I come to my final points, I would like to say to colleagues that this is also the part of asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u244	I would like to thank Mr Recourt for the alertness that this is the whole area of asylum and migration. I do, of course, have a question about bed-bath bread, because Secretary of State Dijkhoff has announced that he is coming up with a law banning municipalities from offering bed-bath bread-care. Does the PvdA support that law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u245	That law has yet to be passed, but my colleague, Mr Kuik, has already said that we are not in favour of a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u246	That's a clear answer. That is an answer that is indeed in line with the blog of Mr Recourt's colleague. At a time when there are still so many laws to be dealt with and there is such a scarce capacity in the area of legislation, the question is, of course, whether the Secretary of State should start with this law at all. I'll count with Mr Recourt. The PvdA is against this law. When I look at the SP, GroenLinks, the Christian Union, the Party for Animals, and I look back just to be safe, but they are no longer there, the group Kuzu/Öztürk, I note that a majority is in favour of not starting with this law at all. That saves capacity again and we can do good things with it. Shall we simply call on the Secretary of State not to start this law at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u247	First of all, I don't know if I'm going to add the math to 76. Mr Sjoerdsma says there is a majority in favour, but I do not know. I have already said that we are against a ban. However, this must of course be laid down in a law and then you have a procedure by which you can submit your arguments and counter-arguments. I'm not going to tell the Cabinet right now: you can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u248	That's remarkable. Mr Recourt is not going to tell the cabinet that it should not make that law. Anyway, he says he won't support the law. My question is about funding, because the Labour Party too has previously called for bridging funding for the time when there would be no deal with the VNG and the Secretary of State. That deal's still not here. Does the Labour Party also consider that this funding should go to the municipalities for the much-needed bed-bath-bath-bread scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u249	That bridge financing was there at the time of the negotiations. The negotiations have officially stopped, so there is no funding. My questions are precisely to see if these negotiations can begin again. Then you can find another reason to continue with that funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u250	The reason for the funding was that the municipalities said: this is the final piece of asylum and return policy. This must not be placed on the sign of the municipalities. That needs to be settled with the Secretary of State. In the meantime, there was indeed funding. There is still no deal and now the Labour Party says: there is no deal and as long as there is no deal, we no longer pay. It is disappointing that the Labour Party also throws that burden over the fence to the municipalities. Is that how I see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u251	The Labour Party very much wants parties to sit down again. I call on the Secretary of State to do so, and certainly the municipalities that are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u252	I understand that the contribution of the Labour Party on the part of asylum consists of one sentence and one question. But we can discuss much more about asylum policy. Think, for example, of the reaction to a motion that the PvdA was also in favour of. That motion was about the minutes, the reports, of the awards for the children's pardon (19637, no. 2229). The cabinet previously indicated that there were 40 awards, but that turned out to be 29. For the past year, it's only been one. I would like to hear from the Labour Party what it thinks about the implementation of the present child's pardon. Does the Labour Party see reason to finally adapt this arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u253	As a party, you have to choose what you're talking about. Many topics on asylum and migration take place in general consultation. That is why we have chosen other themes. That doesn't change the fact that we're talking about it and we're also talking about it. I've been watching those minutes myself. I'm not shocked by what I see right there. That even looks good. We've been judged with a reasonable amount of coulance. The problem is, we can't look at those rejected cases. We have supported a motion on this. Mrs Voortman knows this better than I do, because I am not the permanent spokesman on this subject. That motion has not been passed. So it's very difficult to say whether it's too much or too little without you knowing why the others were rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u254	What you can see in these awards is that they are situations of people who would otherwise have been granted a permit for other reasons. This shows that the children's pardon as it is now formulated does not represent a beet. I'll make it more concrete. Is it not time to relax the criterion of participation, a subject which the Labour Party has often been concerned about, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u255	In these examples sent to the Chamber there are a number of cases in which the working criterion has not been fully met and asylum has been granted. It cannot therefore be said that the criterion of participation is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u256	I am also a little uncomfortablely surprised, especially since the VVD spokesperson has paid so much attention to this asylum issue. In addition to that horrible image that the Liberals have once again presented here today, in which we must show as little international solidarity as possible, I would have liked to see the other coalition partner's perspective outlined. I was hoping that would be a little more encouraging. That is not the case. I therefore have one question. In my own term, I asked the cabinet what it would mean for the influx into the Netherlands if Erdogan's threat were to come true and Turkey stopped stopping more people heading towards Europe on the Turkish coast. Is it not necessary, then, for the Secretary of State to maintain a reserve capacity so that the pressure on the asylum chain does not immediately rise up as much hope as last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u257	As the Labour Party, we want to settle it as best we can. That's what we've been doing for the past four years. Sometimes it's part of that that you don't blow too high off the tower about your principles, but regulate it as best you can. I would like to put the question of reserve capacity to the Secretary of State. I'm assuming that that seems only logical to me... that you think it could be a lot more than it is now, so that you don't get back into the emergency situation we've been in. So I assume that the Ministry of Justice is also a learning organisation. We're gonna hear it. I've only got a few sentences left. I'll come back to the points I did want to make today. It is my ambition, after a conflict, to bring people together in a society that is currently driving them far too far apart. That requires innovation and vision. Let us now take the first steps to make it possible to move forward in a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u258	When it comes to modern dispute resolution, we often find each other. I really like mediation in criminal law. However, I'm a little concerned about the plea to keep cases away from the judge. Maybe I'm taking it the wrong way. Mr Recourt must, above all, correct me. Does Mr Recourt share the concern that the law is not accessible and accessible to many people and that the system of subsidised legal aid has been under considerable pressure in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u259	I want to take cases away from the judge. I do not want that to make the judge unattainable because he is not affordable, but to find much wider working, practical and, above all, better-functioning solutions to disputes. That's what I want. You'll always need the judge, but bring him "her" it's usually "yourself" at another time into the conflict, for example when you're in mediation and you don't get out at one point. Or, for example, bring a judge to neighborhoods. These are the innovative ideas that I love, which go away from the traditional procedures. The tail of Mr Van Nispen's question was how legal aid is going. I think we have managed to play away the plans of this cabinet, which I did not get very excited about, partly thanks to the firm commitment of the SP. The Wolfsen report is now being worked out. We have debated the Wolfsen report: I can follow it very well in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u260	The programme of the Labour Party for the future, i.e. after the elections, states that more money will be available for subsidised legal aid. I was very pleased about that. My question is: why can't we do something about it now? However, the PvdA supported the motion on widening the income limit, for which we received the scenarios yesterday. We could make choices in that. The question is also, above all, where does Mr Recourt currently find it difficult. Is it about too high own contributions? Are we talking about too tight income limits? Are the social attorneys not getting paid enough? Where is Mr Recourt's concern where more money should go? Again, we find each other at this point, but can we not come together earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u261	It's not about the income of social lawyers. I trust that the Wolfsen Committee will take care of this properly. It is mainly a question of increasing the contribution, which is already there for the real social minimums, because the middle groups are at risk of falling between shore and ship. Hence my plea for other ways of resolving disputes. You can also imagine that there is a problem in one's own risk. People who really don't have anything, who sleep on a bench, I always worry a lot. If you let them pay their own risk, they'll never actually get legal aid. So there are a number of points that can certainly be improved. That is why we have allocated money to our electoral programme. Why don't we get some money now? We have made other choices, first of all to finance the base with the 450 million that the entire Chamber has contributed to, I must add, this year. There have also been a number of accents, of which I think mediation in criminal law is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u262	I just heard Mr Recourt say that the judge should always be there and that it is not his intention at all to keep cases from the judge. I'm happy about that. However, I read in the budget, albeit somewhat hidden, that the Minister's plan is to have the Council take decisions on child protection measures in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u263	That is what Mr Recourt has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u264	I have missed that point and I would ask him to clarify it. Is he in favour of the cabinet's plans to take the judge out of that, or does he support me in my concerns about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u265	I just said that I think it's really the worst plan of the last few decades. So we really need to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u266	Can Mr Recourt also tell us why he thinks it is the worst plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u267	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u268	For example, because removals are very specific to the judge. It doesn't seem efficient to me anyway because you're gonna raise objections, appeals and new procedures about yourself. But it's also much more fundamental. Taking children away from parents should not be left to the Council of Children's Protection. You're gonna need a firm judicial test on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u269	I'm sorry, I missed this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u270	Happens. Thank you very much, Mr Recourt. I now give the floor, Mrs Gesthuizen, to Mr Marcouch on behalf of the PvdA. Mr Sjoerdsma also asked if Mr Marcouch would speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u271	Mr. Chairman. Safety is the basis of everything that makes our lives right. Without security, there is no confidence, no entrepreneurial spirit and no justice. In good social democratic Dutch: security is our basis for upliftment. Jumping doesn't go off an ice shot. Only if we are safe can we raise children, provide education and find jobs. Progress cannot be achieved without standards, as prevention cannot be without repression. Today, in this budget debate, I want to make improvements on three issues that make our lives unsafe. I'm starting community crime. Then there will be radicalisation, discrimination and racism. I conclude with the organization that protects us from this: the police. Luckily, juvenile crime is falling. It is nice, but that's all, because the figures give the Dutch average, while the differences with lagging neighbourhoods are painfully large. No one wants to live in a neighborhood where people dare not report destroyed windows, sexual harassment of gays and girls and spitting Jews and Muslims. If the victims report, their car will be scratched, their puppy will be pawned and they will have to keep their children inside, because the perpetrators live on their streets and no one will take them away, not the family, not the homeowner, nor the police. However self-centered we may behave, at the core we are social people. We feel that this is not right, even though we do not live in such a neighborhood where journalists, bus drivers and paramedics are attacked. We are well aware that this neighborhood crime is a school for thieves who go on a raid all over the Netherlands, engage in arms and drugs trafficking, and even be hired for liquidations. So there is every reason to apply the best methods of reducing juvenile crime as a matter of urgency in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. I have three notions to revitalize the security approach in the neighborhoods. Now that we know how to do it, we have a duty to do it, including in the problem areas. 1. Priority. It wasn't until we as a government saw the priority that the police got results. The government stopped hanging places for hanging young people, stopped entertaining young criminals in youth centres and started fighting youth crime. The local government formed a vital coalition with the best agents, with responsible parents and with energetic family members found through the Own Force Conferences. Neighborhood residents got a position from the mayor and got help from potty coaches, who returned the street to the neighborhood. They chased the troublemakers home, where hands-on aid workers were ready who knew behind the front door. 2. Precision. They're boys, not kids. That's gonna save half of it. Too often they are Moroccan-Dutch or Antillian-Dutch, but in this we have to be much more precise. Those who are not good must be distinguished from all those who are good. If you show that discernment, you do the opposite of ethnic profiling. You focus as a cop or supervisor on that wrong guy and you get help from all the other neighborhood guys, who suffer just as much from theft, robberies and intimidation as the other neighbors. 3. Hold on. As soon as we let go of the neighborhood, the criminals will come back. Unfortunately, half of the punished are repeated, as long as the Minister has not put preventive methods of posting to education (TBO) on track. According to the Marcouch motion, criminals will not be released until they have passed their professional qualifications. There's a ball here for open purpose. We can resocialize ex-cons by giving them an alternative vog, an explanation of their good behavior in prison. The potty street coaches are also part of the preventive methods, as are the family visitors, who send the fathers their sons to school, and the family coaches, who discipline their brothers beyond the front door. Unfortunately, I see these methods, invented in Amsterdam Nieuw-West, watered down. Criminal groups are back there. All over the country we notice this in the cold liquidations. And all that while all you need are good teams, ethnically diverse with strong team leaders who daily brief their teams before they go into the neighborhood and debrief on return. Now that we know the ins and outs of this district-specific method, I ask the Minister to put this successful area-based method in the climbers for our problem neighbourhoods too, so that the muddle with blurring and rolling blur makes way for this firm hands-on approach. Let us now turn to radicalisation! That is to say, the threatening radicalisation of both Muslim terrorists and right-wing extremists, whether in the name of religions or not. The remaining brothers and sisters of jihadists can be saved, as in juvenile crime, if we find out about the front door. However, the pilot in Amsterdam with a so-called jihadism intervention team failed because of the embarrassment of the aid workers, who did not see a natural moment to enter. That can be tackled with good team members and ditto leaders. I ask the Minister to introduce a plan for the pilot to the twenty municipalities which will receive EUR 6.7 million again next year for a territorial and personalised approach to radicalisation. Nationally, it would be helpful for the minister to give the prosecutor the indication to dismantle Salafist organizations if the objectives they pursue are contrary to the law. I ask this for the sake of the mothers who are desperate to see their children end up in the breeding pond of recruiters and for the sake of Muslims who see their religion hijacked by the perverse power goals of IS. Perhaps the most destructive are discrimination and racism. I believe that the best way to combat these high-impact crimes is to combat domestic violence with high priority. All professionals at all levels, intensively trained and instructed, should be included in municipal security plans with specialized agents for reporting and tracing. The information on declarations shall be accessible by special codes and, where necessary, without a declaration. The success here is also in the quality of the execution. In addition, there should also be a tooth at the hotlines. Even if the insulting and derogatory expressions are not punishable, it helps to refer victims to the municipality and the Empire to set up trends. I'd like a response from the Minister. Can we in this way intensify the fight against this destructive crime, which is called discrimination and racism? Now, for all intents and purposes, the digital hotline MiND is about to fall over. This is certainly worth an amendment to me and I have already tabled it with the support of colleagues from the SP, D66, VVD, CDA, SGP and the Christian Union. I would also like to know from the Minister when he will present the police app against ethnic profiling and other complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u272	Mr Marcouch mentioned an impressive line of co-signators, but he forgot to mention my name.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u273	I'm deeply ashamed, Mr. Chairman. Apologies! Indeed, GroenLinks' colleagues are also among them. The police are the organisation whose primary task is to protect us from crime. We see a new phenomenon in the exercise of the task of the police. With postures and other police actions we see bystanders with smartphones popping up that immediately start filming, sometimes in a very annoying way. This is accompanied by a great deal of uncertainty among both the agents and the citizens. Filming let's be clear about it! People are allowed to film, and these videos are very often also useful to expose abuses. Filming is permitted, but it is prohibited by law to hinder the officers in the performance of their duties. Also the publication of the films is not a problem in itself, but it is when the agents are recognizably filmed. When they are shown in a published film, some of them are hindered in their work, or in fact they are made impossible by the work. I know examples of cops who had to leave their work area in the end. This not only makes the work of agents impossible, but we also see that this has negative effects on the members of the family of agents. That's why I suggest filmers blur the cops. They have to make faces invisible, anonymous when they publish their movies. I'll ask the Minister to take care of that. A new phenomenon requires new rules of conduct. I would also ask the Minister to include the boundaries of freedom and which are also part of this new phenomenon of filming with smartphones in the craftsmanship training of clerks. In this way they can clearly identify the boundaries and know what can and cannot be done. As far as I am concerned, this is also accompanied by a citizens-oriented campaign. Investing in the police is investing in the officers, from recruitment to retirement, from craftsmanship to integrity. Agents are 100% honest when they come in, otherwise they would never have come through the extensive selection. But integrity requires maintenance, just like physical condition. The mental condition also requires maintenance. The police work is very radical due to all kinds of causes, from aggression on the street to child pornography on the Internet. That's why the police department needs to have the mental aid in order, from PTSD practitioners to mental caregivers. What about the implementation of the Berndsen-Jansen/Marcouch motion on PTSS, I ask the Minister. Can he state the state of play, both in relation to PTSD and in relation to the spiritual caregivers, on whom, I believe, I have tabled a motion with the colleagues of the Christian Union and the SGP? In any case, it is good that the police leadership takes the ban on ethnic profiling seriously, to begin with by setting the standard. I really want to compliment the police that she has taken this on a speedy basis. This compliment also applies to the support given by the Minister. Then the police can take this seriously by constantly training and by encouraging agents to contact each other at the workplace. It is good that the Minister has initiated the recruitment of ethnic diversity. Police units are calling for more room. I support them in that and I look forward to the Minister's response to the question of how much police units have room to recruit independently. After all, we need teams that can handle the district-specific tasks. However, I would like to say straight away that the formation of the national police must continue. After all, detection is the goal. That's better if 25 separate tracking systems are integrated into one system. The chance of getting caught has to go up. That's how security is created. This is how we are building progress by laying a safe foundation. Safety is like a father: first the norm and then the upliftment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u274	I understand that Mr Verhoeven would like to ask one more question before I give Mrs Helder the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u275	I am truly impressed by the speeches made by both Mr Recourt and Mr Marcouch. I've listened to it with great pleasure. But it's almost like they're not an accessory to four years of V and J. A lot of things have happened at that time that have really hurt the Labour Party. I say it to Mr Marcouch now, but I also point it to Mr Recourt. But Mr Marcouch must say it on behalf of the Labour Party. All kinds of legislative proposals have been adopted, putting pressure on the rule of law. There has been a lot of cuts in the police, whereas Mr Marcouch has made such a passionate speech about this. How does the Labour Party look back on four years of V and J, with four executives from the VVD on that ministry, and on everything that has happened in those four years? I would like to hear an opinion from the Labour Party on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u276	Mr Tellegen rightly said that there has been a lot of savings in recent years, wide and in all areas. However, in the budget of, for example, V and J, more and more money has been added over the years, despite the difficult financial conditions. Of course, this also has to do with the threats that have arisen and all kinds of unplanned developments. In that sense, I give a great compliment to policemen who, despite the circumstances of austerity and the immense reorganisation, have just delivered every time. This is how I look at the police, which I am the spokesman for: it is a huge project for which all the parties here in the Chamber, the police and the unions have given the green light. That didn't always go very well. Sometimes it still happens with problems. However, I can see that we have found a way out of this, together with the opposition, to ensure the safety of citizens and a workable situation for policemen. I think that's just really good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u277	All kinds of laws under pressure from the rule of law are bad, such as the taking away of Dutch citizenship, punishment without the intervention of the judge and the fair trial that is increasingly under pressure. The same applies to the way in which it has been dealt with by the national police. That is what Mr Marcouch himself says. I would like to know from the Labour Party whether she thinks that after this period there should be another VVD minister at this ministry. I would also like to hear a report from the Labour Party. It's okay if you're clear about what happened at this ministry. For four years, so much has gone wrong. The Labour Party must also have watched how things went. So I would really like to hear from Mr Marcouch whether there is another VVD Minister coming back to the PvdA...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u278	That's what the voter's about, but okay. First, the election.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u279	...and if we're going to give a figure to these two gentlemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u280	Indeed: first the elections. As far as I am concerned, of course, there will be two directors of the Labour Party. All madness: there have been a lot of debates in the field of security and justice. I'm not going to review all these debates here again. I see there's been a lot of bumps. The challenge is always to take those bumps and make it to the finish line. I think that's what's happening. This can be praised not only in the coalition, but also in the constructive opposition to which Mr Verhoeven belongs. I think we did a lot of it together after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u281	Mr Verhoeven specifically asked for a report figure. Actually, there's not even a six yet. There won't be a number at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u282	I've been in education. That's when I gave numbers. That's not what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u283	Fine. I would sincerely like to join the compliments to all those people who do the hard work. There are also good proposals on protecting police officers posted on the Internet. Mr Marcouch is right to draw attention to problems with PTSS and police education. I would like to make one specific point: police education. Does the Marcouch not have any regrets at all as regards participation in this cabinet and the measures taken? There's been a lot of cuts in police education. The budget has fallen from 140 million to 100 million euros. How does Mr Marcouch look back on that? Isn't that a painful austerity that doesn't work out well when we ask so many of the men and women on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u284	I am very proud of the performance of the security chain in recent years when you see what unforeseen and sometimes dramatic incidents were, with terror threats, the MH17, the radicalisation and the reorganisation that is going on. That compliment, I think, is to be made. It is up to the cabinet to anticipate this with the Chamber in a good way every time. There were a lot of bottlenecks and they have been solved. I see that 450 million will be added in the budget and also in the coming years. Part of that money goes into the neighborhood cops, and I'm satisfied with that. Part of the money goes into the training and training of agents, because that has to be done. I see investments, despite the difficult financial conditions in which the cabinet has ruled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u285	Once again, I would like to congratulate the people who are doing the hard work; we are really in agreement on that. I do not want to repeat the debate I just had with Mrs Tellegen, but we must stick to the facts. The budget is falling. Mr Marcouch says there's money coming in. No, the police budget is going down by 30 million euros next year. So don't come up with: there's money coming up. No, the cut is getting a little less, but the cut next year on the national police alone is 30 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u286	Let's be honest with each other. I've been talking about the difficult financial circumstances. If you had been driving, you should have taken measures. Then you must be so honest as to say what you would have done otherwise and where you would have gotten that money, but you do not say that. There were incredibly difficult financial conditions. The police are in the biggest reorganisation project ever and are performing anyway. Unforeseen circumstances have arisen which have led to the need for additional investment. That's what's being done; that list's on my table. I see there's gonna be money every year instead of it going off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u287	Mr. Chairman. "We are on the eve of what awaits us and there is no reason to be reassured. If there is no extra money, the quality of our work will deteriorate. And we're gonna get that back in the future.'. These are quotes from the President of the College of Attorneys General following the presentation of the Public Prosecutor's Annual Report in May of this year. He made no mistake that the bottom of the public prosecutor's greenhouse has been reached. Millions more will be needed in the coming years if the D.A.'s office is to continue to do its job. But those alarming words weren't even about that. The quotes refer to the change in crime in recent years: the serious organised crime, corruption and the advancing cybercrime. In order to deal with this crime, we need at least 40 million more a year. The chief of police also spoke similar words not so long ago. "Cybercrime is a major threat to the integrity of society, but also to citizens' sense of security. Organised crime and cybercrime are hardly measurable to date. These are precisely the forms of crime that I am concerned about, especially because we cannot monitor how they develop in sufficient time," said the chief of police. Those are words from people in practice that my group wholeheartedly agrees with. How different are they than the mantra we keep hearing from the Ministry, namely that crime has dropped. Every time, I have to remind the Minister that this is about registered crime. That is quite different, because these are the crimes that citizens have reported to the police. After long nagging by the PVV we now finally have a report showing that the willingness to report has been unabated in recent years, 19%. The Minister tried to save what was to be saved by referring to another instrument for measuring crime rates, namely the security monitor. In a general discussion on the police, I said that I would come back to this in the budget debate, so that is what I am doing here. What the Minister said at the time is nothing more or less than to turn the citizen into a fool for many reasons. Let me mention the most important ones. Firstly, the underlying victim surveys used for the safety monitor are only samples on which the response has been declining for some time. Secondly, many crimes have not been included in that survey. Those are the so-called victimless crimes. These are crimes without a direct victim: hemp plantations, driving under the influence without an accident, producing ecstasy, dumping drug waste and certain forms of cybercrime. Thirdly, the survey of companies has not decreased for a number of years. Crimes that victimise companies are therefore completely out of the picture. We're not getting anywhere like this. That is why I would ask: is the Minister prepared to have an investigation into a new instrument or an additional one? Let me refer to a book by a relevant expert entitled The Economy of Crime and Punishment. It was written by Mr Van Velthoven. He says that we can't fall back on victim surveys. He proposes a different method, namely the method of catching/recapturing. I won't go any further on statistics. If the Minister agrees with me that a new or additional measuring instrument is necessary, I will give him that book. Otherwise I am considering a motion, because measuring is knowing, but with the right instrument. Maybe it'll take a few years, just like the report on the willingness to report, but then you'll have something. What is also still being held against better knowledge is the task of the whole safety chain. I heard a colleague of the VVD say in an interrupting debate: we took responsibility, because 50 billion had to be cut. Yeah, that's what you get for dancing to Brussels. However, the VVD went into the elections saying that there would be no savings on security, knowing that so many billion had to be cut. Despite warnings from all sides, from the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the legal profession, that it is not feasible, there is no turning away. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, security expenditure has remained virtually unchanged since 2009. The Ministry spent equally much, or equally little, on security in 2015. It's like the world hasn't changed at that time. Now that the blinders are at a small gap thanks to the opposition parties, money has been added. This is immediately referred to as extra money or an extra investment. However, it is a less severe cut, and that is quite another matter. The police were given free and for nothing a huge sacrifice by the Minister of Finance. He indicated that he was done with that begging, adding that they should get to work instead of in the media asking for money. As far as my group is concerned, his colleague in the field of security and justice, who is present here in box K, added a little to that by not abandoning it. That didn't even cost money, just a little trouble. However, the Minister did nothing. He hid behind the stated objective, namely the development of the police into a smart, flexible and adaptive organisation. Honestly, my group agrees with that objective of achieving a smart and flexible organisation. It's not for nothing that my party in her election program spends at least a billion dollars on the police. Under the Mtto 'new round, new opportunities' I looked at next year's budget as objectively as possible. It's starting to look promising. As of 2017, the cabinet has decided to make a structural commitment of 400 million extra for social priorities and the resolution of bottlenecks, as it so rightly calls. Of this amount, 221 million is for the police as an investment in performance and 10 million to strengthen the area-based commitment. The fact that there's money is just what we normally ask the police to do. Why is the risk section of the police budget not included in the Ministry's own budget? I would mention three major risks: a high absenteeism, the housing plan and the absence of staff. The financial results have already been booked, as in 2021 the police will receive no less than 250 million less than in the previous year. As far as my group is concerned, it can already be said by ignoring the financial risks identified that the police are on very thin ice financially. Is the Minister going to solve this and, if not, will he accept that the police's own assets are at risk? The comment in the written replies that it is taken into account as soon as those risks arise is not sufficient. That's just sticking the head in the sand and hoping you're okay. That's a little "after me the flood." The Minister should start to replenish that own funds again, so why are we at risk and not running sound financial policies at the front? If mobile working is a priority issue, we have also heard this a few times from the Minister of Transport, is the accelerated roll-out of the necessary mobile phones with the MEOS app that the Minister is so in favour of paid by him? It is reported to cost 15 million, but I can't find it anywhere in the budget. So, on that point, I'd like a response from the Minister. However, my main criticism of the amount of 221 million is that it does not take account of the current and future situation. The Minister writes, and I quote him: "With this 221 million, the ambitions/performances included in the police establishment plan will be made sustainable." The layout plan is four years old and based on the current situation. In the meantime, things have happened. The Minister's demand that the police should also be adaptive must, apparently, come from their own assets. Or is the minister going to say here, hopefully, that he, just like she did her predecessor, found some money in an old sock? There needs to be more financial scope for innovation. Technological developments do not stand still and, unfortunately, criminals do not stand still. It's not just about money. Where are the tools the police need? The law that gives the police the power to look into suspects' computers, with the beautiful title Computer Crime III, has finally been filed, but it required an approved chamber motion. But there are still plenty of subjects that need to be picked up. Let me mention four. First of all... What is being done now is clear that with the help of the digital girl Sweetie lured paedophiles are not convicted? Second. Where is the bill on the use of camera images made by private individuals, as a result of an approved chamber motion by my group and the CDA? It is certain that the detection of suspects with the display of images will go much faster. Third. Bodycams are used in a number of units, including here in The Hague. But can information from such a bodycam be used in criminal proceedings? Fourth. On 25 and 26 November last, a so-called appathon was held on the initiative of the Ministry, with the aim of developing a new app to support agents on the streets in making sound recordings of, for example, victims, witnesses and potential suspects. But also here the question: can this way collected information be used in criminal proceedings? According to the Ministry, multimedia such as film, audio and photos are an increasingly important part of the investigation of suspects and the legal process that follows. I agree with the Ministry. In my opinion, however, the legal aspects remain at least under-exposed and necessary legislation remains out of place. Since the so-called Zwolsman judgment, Article 3 of the Police Act is sufficient as a legal basis only in the event of a limited breach of privacy. For the lover and anyone who wants to look it up, see paragraph 6.4.4. It says literally: "The progressive development of the fundamental right to the protection of privacy (...) and the increasing technical refinement and intensification of research methods and techniques require a more precise identification (...)" in the law. That's a fine challenge for the Minister. So my question is also whether he is going to take up this challenge in the areas I have just mentioned. We should not be in danger of having powers in the future, but that a criminal case, as it is so well known, is 'breaking' because of insufficient legal basis. Not only to govern is to see ahead, also to invest is to see ahead. In general consultation on the police on 6 October last, the Minister literally said: "We will have to invest very, very heavily in the coming years in the (...) approach to cybercrime. (...) the police will have to have a lot of people experienced in cybercrime in the relatively short term." But what is my surprise? Only 1.5 million is earmarked to combat cybercrime, and this is apparently only intended for more people. But technology costs money, doesn't it? With a strong sense of understatement, the Minister himself speaks of a "modest" amount. Even worse, he also says: "There must be restraint with new ambitions.'. This means that the Minister is in the wind of the warnings of the Chief Constable and of the President of the College of Attorney General, which I started my introduction with. Criminals will laugh at restraint with new ambitions. Will the Minister, in the shortest possible time, significantly increase his own ambition on this point and come to a solution together with both gentlemen? Or perhaps the Minister could talk to Mr. Prince of Fox-IT, following his interview in the Police Magazine with the telling title Online, the chance of getting caught is nil. As of 2017, the Public Prosecutor's Office will receive structural 13 million in order to be able to better respond to various tasks in society, which is not half of what the President of the College of Attorney General says he needs, namely 40 million. The Minister also completely ignores the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office, like the police, has been given much more work because of the terrorist threat. Did the Minister speak to the best man? After all, he also pointed out the increasing cybercrime. The amounts mentioned in the letter of amendment are insufficient, as are the structural investment of 15 million added last year. So the question is also here: is money still found? But let me also give the Minister something on the eve of the elections and with the end of his term in sight. His predecessor grossed in accepting proposals from my group and then stuck his own sticker on them. The last example of this is the bill on multi-annual co-operation. Simply put: the possibility of stacking punishments. This was taken over by 99% of the PVV, which had already submitted an initiative legislative proposal on this subject. But let me be nice and offer the Minister another initiative bill: group liability. The situation in which suspects blame each other and charge the Public Prosecutor with an evidence problem is then a thing of the past. I have already tabled that initiative proposal. Answers to the questions submitted are already ready, so the Minister will be able to continue. I would, of course, prefer to do so myself, but because of the PvdA boycott of all our proposals, whatever their content, that has no chance of success, despite the words I just heard from Mr Recourt about bringing them together. That was one of his goals. He said bring people together. Apparently, that doesn't apply when it comes to the PVV Drummer. But the minister is in the coalition with this club and he can make sure that the proposal reaches the finish line. The package is already ready. All I have to do is tie it. So if the minister wants it, all he has to do is report it. Then I come to another point: in July of this year an officer was sentenced to two years in prison for shooting a car in an attempt to arrest the driver who tried to drive away and who had already done so a few times. The officer felt threatened, feared for his life and for his colleague's, after which he fired. Unfortunately, we are increasingly reading in the media that policemen have to justify themselves to the criminal justice system if violence has been used in the arrest. The Minister is in the process of drafting a bill. I'd like to wait and see, provided it doesn't take too long. On this point, the history of this minister is not so encouraging, so I would like to make two comments. First of all... In most cases where the police have to use force, there are arrests. Violence is of course an ultimatum remedium, but the one being held also has a role to play. There's always a warning first. Violence or opposition to arrest is a choice and, as far as my group is concerned, should be taken into account in the assessment of the action of the agent concerned. Unfortunately, since 2008, following a ruling by the Supreme Court, ignoring an official order is no longer a criminal offence. As far as my group is concerned, this has to change. Is the Minister willing to include this in the bill? Second. In the case of police violence, a special procedure shall apply under Article 17 of the Staff Instructions to the police. It states that the use of force is reported without delay by the police officer concerned to his superior, who in turn has to report it to the prosecutor within 48 hours. The district attorney then decides on the status of the officer: witness or suspect. I agree with those short deadlines, but what surprises me is that it may then take up to two years before the officer hears whether he is being prosecuted and, if so, what the penalty or sentence becomes. I understand that care is about speed, but a cop can't work like that, and it also affects the workplace. Does the Minister agree with me and, if so, what will he do about this? Is he willing to include this in the bill as well? If not, I will deal with these points myself and come up with a proposal myself. I also have a motion ready, which I consider to be tabled in the second term. Cops on the street have to be able to do their job. They deserve support where they intervene if they prove necessary. As has often been said, agents take a step forward, where citizens take a step back. I'm rounding up. There's gonna be money for the criminal justice chain, and that's a good thing. Unfortunately, it is not enough to finance the current tasks of police and justice and to monitor future developments. Hopefully the Minister will come to his senses and sit down with the Minister of Finance. As far as my group is concerned, the Minister has to put his full weight into it, because that is where he will certainly win.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u288	Mr. Chairman. The end of the Rutte II cabinet is fortunately in sight. Mr Van der Steur, the Minister for Security and Justice, has already run away. That's a good sign, now only the Secretary of State. It is time to take stock of immigration and asylum. Let's start with facts and hard figures. The CBS, the Central Bureau of Statistics, calculated that an immigration record was broken last year. In 2015, more than 204.000 migrants were admitted to the Netherlands. That's not a slip. This cabinet has welcomed more than 204,000 migrants in just one year. That's a city the size of Groningen. That is a city bigger than Almere; it is four times Heerenveen and so you can release more sums. It is almost the entire province of Zeeland to inhabitants. A record has also been broken on the asylum component. The asylum influx reached according to the CBS...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u289	Mr De Graaf, I'm going to interrupt you, because I think the Minister should just be in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u290	Of course, I ask my question mainly to the Secretary of State, but I do not care very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u291	Yes, but I suggest we wait until the minister arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u292	Could I suggest we just keep going?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u293	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u294	There's the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u295	He is ultimately responsible for Security and Justice. Mr. De Graaf, please continue. Do you remember where you left off?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u296	Yes. I hope the minister didn't run from the facts, because they're not lying. I'm just gonna keep going with the facts. According to CBS, the asylum influx reached a peak of 56.940 last year. Never before has mass immigration in our country been as stepped up as under this cabinet and under this minister, who has just returned. Never before has the influx of migrants got as out of hand as under this disaster coalition of VVD and PvdA. Never before have promises to limit the inflow, especially of the VVD, been worth so little. The consequences of this open border policy are not a lie. See the explosion of welfare benefits going to immigrants for the most part. See the social rental homes, which Dutch people can whistle to, because they go to status holders with priority. See also the security problems and the continuing Islamization. The Dutch are gradually becoming more and more strangers in their own country. Unfortunately, that is all this cabinet has achieved. But for an asylum seeker, of course, this is a party cabinet. They're top-of-the-line. Anyone who wants to and can say the word "asylum" is welcome in this country and comes here on behalf of the cabinet. It doesn't even matter whether reception is possible in the region. It doesn't matter if you threw away your identity documents for convenience. Criminal asylum seekers are also simply granted residence permits. It does not even matter to this cabinet that terrorists and jihadists come to Europe with the flow of asylum. I even warned the minister's predecessor twice in 2014. But the boundaries are still wide open. The numbers don't lie; they never do. This is the worst cabinet ever, represented here by these two rulers, in terms of driving mass immigration. The cabinet has turned the whole foreign policy into one big mess. Take the criminalisation of illegality, which was removed from the coalition agreement immediately at the beginning under pressure from the Labour Party. Take the umpteenth general pardon arrangement this cabinet came up with. That's the most beautiful reward for people who don't follow the rules and ignore their fat duty. It's a bonus on lawlessness, a bonus on misconduct. Of course, this pardon arrangement also has a disastrous effect. Almost no asylum seeker, no family of asylum seekers, leaves the Netherlands. Of the thousands of people who have been rejected under the scheme, only 80 have left the Netherlands. That shockingly low number is proof that soft healers make huge stinking wounds. As a result, the problem of asylum seekers who grow up here illegally has only increased. After all, for the umpteenth time, people see that it produces residence permits if you just stick around here, against the rules. Even the director of the Return and Departure Service indicates that the pardon scheme undermines the return policy. Then why is the Secretary of State continuing with this structural pardon scheme? You can't deliberately and knowingly choose to do so much violence to the return policy, can you? The issue of the reception of illegal immigrants also arises. That's what the cabinet's going to miss out on. The cabinet initially aimed for a bed-bath bread scheme with six reception conditions. Of course, that's six too many, because illegal is illegal. In reality, we are now stuck with 32 reception facilities for illegal immigrants, from Assen to Zwolle, from Nijmegen to Nissewaard. That's what we call mismanagement: 6 shelters want and eventually create 32. How could the cabinet have let this get so out of hand? This office has never addressed municipalities that sabotage the mandatory return of illegal immigrants to their country of origin. In fact, they received money from the Secretary of State for all these reception conditions. Although no agreement has been reached with municipalities on bed, bath and bread, the dozens of existing illegal shelter sites are unfortunately a fact. And you can't just get rid of it. It never closes the cabinet again, especially in its last few weeks. Evil has already been done: the foreign policy has been given out to the congregations. But earlier it was given out to the Labour Party and, above all, to Brussels. All in all, there is a devastating picture of the way in which the cabinet has messed up everything in the field of foreign affairs. All inflow records are broken. Executed people get old-fashioned pardon arrangements and illegality is facilitated as never before. Couldn't have been worse. That is why it is high time this fatal immigration policy stopped. It's high time we cleaned up the debris. Fortunately, we, the PVV, know how to put things in order in this area. We have made many proposals to this end, and we will continue to repeat them. For example, all temporary asylum permits should be withdrawn. After all, the cabinet has admitted in large numbers fake refugees, who were already safe in other countries before their arrival in the Netherlands. Sometimes they'd come through seven safe boundaries. Of course, we must finally close the borders for all asylum seekers and all migrants from Islamic countries. That can't be repeated enough. By "closing the borders," the PVV of course means its own national borders. Because we do not want to be dependent on the EU and certainly not on Erdogan, on Turkey, with which the EU has unfortunately concluded a EUR 6 billion refugee deal. We see the result of that. Erdogan is blackmailing and threatening to flood Europe with migrants. When will the cabinet learn that the Turkish way of negotiating starts only when we think that the deal is closed? That is the reality. We need to take matters back into our own hands. There's a lot to do. I ask the Secretary of State to start with two important and concrete issues that need to be dealt with urgently. First of all, asylum seekers who cannot show valid travel and identity documents should be prevented. The influx of these so-called undocumented asylum seekers is completely out of control. The cabinet itself indicated that in 2015 alone, more than 21,000 asylum seekers entered the country without valid travel and identity documents. 21,000 people we don't know who they are! That is, of course, a huge problem. After all, you don't know who's coming in. You don't know who you're letting into your own house while the front door's open. They can be criminals, terrorists, who simply give up false personal data. That is unacceptable, because this, of course, directly affects the safety of society. Now that we know that terrorists are hitchhiking their way to Europe with the asylum flow, there are enough reports about...................................................................................................................................................... Undocumented asylum seekers can also be people who want to cheat. We know that large-scale lies are being made about the country of origin in order to have a better chance of obtaining an asylum permit. That was also investigated by Frontex. For viewers at home: Frontex is the ferry service that brings in all people across the Mediterranean on behalf of the EU. From Frontex's investigation, 40% of Moroccans claimed to be from Syria. That's unusual. In addition, asylum seekers also know that expulsion after a procedure is easy to sabotage if you have no papers. So it only has advantages to throw away your passport. In short, there are many good reasons for ensuring quickly that undocumented asylum seekers never get a residence permit again. I would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. On this last point, however, I must say that the Secretary of State has absolutely no idea of this problem. At the request of the PVV how many undocumented asylum seekers actually receive a residence permit, he could not answer. So we don't even know how many people are allowed to stay here from whom we don't know who they are. That is, euphemistically speaking, not reassuring. See also the answer to the technical questions on the budget. A second point that needs to be dealt with urgently is to stop the so-called 'exit policy'. At the moment, the Netherlands is really the crazy stallion of Europe by not only allowing asylum seekers in large numbers, but also allowing all these admitted asylum seekers to bring their partners and family members to the Netherlands. This does not mean that the usual conditions for family reunification have to be met. Easier access to the Netherlands was never easier. In view of the situation surrounding the housing market, the allocation of homes and all those Dutch people who have to wait, this is not sustainable at all. Look at the numbers. As of last year, more than 20,000 followers have been admitted. And according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the IND, there are about 30,000 follow-up requests on the pile. It is bizarre and completely unnecessary to allow so many followers so easily. Look at Denmark, which does not have a smooth post-travel policy at all. Even Germany is doing better than the cabinet in this respect. We're worse than Merkel. In Germany, the return policy applies only to asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit under the Refugee Convention. Those are the really rare cases. It is strange that not at least an example should be taken. The Secretary of State is thus overtaken by Angela in his admission policy. If that doesn't matter to think. My appeal to the Secretary of State is therefore to draw a line as soon as possible through the return policy. I'll come to a conclusion. We expect the cabinet to make a start this year, in its after-days, with a bit of right-making, and to make up for all the mistakes that have been made, even though the real work will of course have to be done after the elections. The members of the PVV Group, but especially the voters and the many potential voters, cannot wait until 15 March next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u297	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has been ruled out. That certainly applies to the Ministry of Security and Justice. It all started with great election promises on the VVD posters: "Strike for those who deserve punishment," "More punishment and less understanding for criminals" and "Blue belongs on the street, not behind a desk." But what do we get from the VVD on V and J? A financial mess, a series of repealed legislative proposals, arguing with mayors, black-painted WOB pieces, investigating committees on shady deals and weird declarations and over and over again apologizing. This ministry thought it could also rule through the media. It all started with those fat-printed heads in De Telegraaf of the gentlemen Teeven and Opstelten, the crimefighters. They had plans to catch bad guys. And last weekend, the current Minister of Security and Justice gave a rookie interview in the Algemeen Dagblad. Without prejudice to this, the VVD executives are knocking on their chests. They keep doing that after four years of trouble. They claim that the Netherlands has become safer, because crime rates are falling. But what they're not telling us is that 55% of the reported crime is not picked up by the police, that the clearance rate has been stuck for years around 26, that people are less and less reporting a crime, that crime has increased in 95 municipalities, that criminals go free from the workload of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and that the numbers on cybercrime are simply missing. At the end of this agony, the cabinet is now handing out election gifts. It speaks of a splendid budget, but the 450 million will of course not compensate for the damage done by the VVD to the functioning of our rule of law and confidence in politics. The credibility of the Ministry has completely disappeared. The infamous communication department of the Ministry of Security and Justice can only go to one newspaper and that is the Fabeltjeskrant. This would be funny if it weren't so sad. We live in times of terror threat. We've all talked about it. Everyone in this Chamber wants to tackle terrorism. The cabinet tries it with new laws and powers. It uses big words. There is a great deal of threat and then very tough measures are proposed with all new powers. But the base isn't in order, like I said. And the practical execution is raging. Many cabinet proposals devour our rule of law: locking people up without concrete suspicion and catching unsuspected citizens in data-drag nets. This won't do any good, but it'll hurt. D66 wants no false security, no weakened internet and no useless pile of data. D66 aims to provide expert people who collect targeted information, exchange them well and treat them closely. D66 therefore wants to equip the security forces to the maximum, first of all the Royal Marechaussee. Time and time again D66 has warned: now make sure you have enough capacity! The cabinet always claimed that the capacity would be put in order. But last summer, the army had to jump in. The Minister of Security and Justice thought that was perfectly normal, because that was protocol. Now the cabinet finally sees the urgency and puts additional capacity in place. It's nice to be listened to, but is this enough? No, again it's cutting and sticking, because it takes 350 fte extra for the marechaussee. Otherwise, reprioritisation will have direct consequences for the safety of the Netherlands. So is the cabinet coming to the bridge with the capacity that the marshal really needs? Another crucial link is, of course, the police. D66 wants the police, the district agent in particular, to get his place back in the capillaries of our society, in the capillaries of the neighborhoods where it all happens. The promise was that the district agent would return to full strength in the neighborhood, but the presence is not yet at least 80%. The district cop is definitely not available 24 hours a day. In addition, there are too few district agents from different ethnic groups. D66 considers that these three essential points should be in order in 2017. Finally, on this point, I have a question about terror. This morning, the media reported on leaked terrorist files from Europol. Is this true? How can this happen? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Much has already been said about the phenomenon of cyber, as former Minister Opstelten said so beautifully. I am pleased, although it has not always been discussed in the way D66 wants. At least there is more attention to it. In this area, too, the cabinet is not in order. Take the Gambling Law. It's already been accepted. The cabinet wanted to manipulate the operation of the internet by blocking websites via the DNS protocol. That would be a disaster for online freedom. Fortunately, with the help of the Chamber, D66 was able to stop it. Soon we'll get the hacking law, the Computer Crime Act III. That makes it more unsafe for people, as I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg. Vulnerabilities in phones and tablets are not closed, but remain open to criminals and foreign intelligence services. There are also other proposals, such as the Intelligence and Security Services Act and the Bill on the adaptation of telecommunications data retention requirements. These proposals increase the datahooiberg in this country, making the needle further out of sight. These are all proposals that make it more unsafe for people, which are bad for our economy and seriously restrict the freedom of the innocent individual. The last bit of liberalism is finished with the VVD. It has become a right-conservative party. This may be a natural moment for a brief question from the government partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u298	I say it very undiplomatic. I thought, "Don't talk." Yet here I am on the interrupting microphone. Indeed, Mr Verhoeven does make a very caricature of all kinds of laws. I understand that he's against and that he has arguments, but why doesn't he at least acknowledge that there's a dilemma if you want to roll up a child pornography network, but can't access it conventionally? Then you can say, "Forget it; we don't want that." That's the right of D66. However, do not deny that there is a dilemma. That's what's happening now by putting everything together: it's all a big mess and the cabinet is retarded Henkie. That's not how it works in the real world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u299	We want good and effective proposals that can tackle child pornography, terrorism and internet crime. That's what D66 wants. We make proposals, propose alternatives and table amendments to every bill from this cabinet. Mr Recourt will see many of D66's amendments coming along in the near future to the law on computer crime and the law on intelligence and security services. All sorts of things that rattle, that make the Internet more unsafe, that cause an unfocused data mountain, that hinder targeted search, we will all try to close. We will all make proposals for this. We are never standing here with the message: it is all bad and we are voting against it. We would just like to think about it, precisely because we see Mr Recourt's dilemma so well. I have often said that I think that in this Chamber too many parties are staring blindly at the fact that very bad things are happening. They conclude that only a few heavy laws have to be filed and then stop thinking about the effectiveness of those laws. I don't want an unsafe Internet as a weapon against Internet crime. I want a secure internet against Internet crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u300	So does the Labour Party. Then Mr Verhoeven should say where exactly it should be better rather than saying that it is all just one pot wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u301	I'm gonna make a lot of proposals. I'd like to start with the law on computer crime. For example, let's agree that we are not going to say that the police and our own government are allowed to buy unknown vulnerabilities in black markets, dark markets, to make sure that we are supposed to be able to tackle crime. Let us try to amend that proposal. This will certainly be the subject of an amendment from us. There will be many others. We will always come up with initiatives to make things better. If I don't say these laws are bad, no one in this room will say it. That's why I do it. I will continue my speech. I said the VVD has become a right-wing party. That was a natural moment of rest. Against these bad laws, D66 will bring many realistic proposals to truly enhance our cyber security and freedom. For example, I would like to say this to Mr Recourt: our pre-summer Tech vision and our initiative paper The Internet of Things last week. It includes proposals such as sticking to strong encryption, digital skills in education, a strong and independent national cybersecurity center, software liability, minimum requirements for internet-connected devices so that we don't get a very safe internet of things, transparency about algorithms from the big powerful companies like Google and Facebook, and so on. We also need to train the police and detectives better in order to better tackle cybercrime and invest in good online detectives. That is why I have tabled an amendment to increase the Team High Tech Crime and invest in better cybercrime prevention campaigns. Finally, I would like to say that this cabinet constantly pretends that security and freedom are opposite each other, as if they were enemies of each other. That is bad nonsense, because privacy is personal freedom and security for 17 million Dutch people. All the proposals put forward by this cabinet make the privacy of innocent citizens smaller and smaller. I just told that to the CDA colleague. That really has to stop. Unfortunately, we also read nothing in this last budget that strengthens the security and freedom of 17 million Dutch people. Once again, there is less budget for our privacy watchdog, the Dutch Data Protection Authority. D66 wants to triple the budget after this cabinet. We put that in our election program. This cabinet is also on its hands in serious data leaks at municipalities, energy companies and hospitals. The Minister then says: his own responsibility. How sustainable is this if large-scale data leaks increase? D66 therefore wants an action plan for cybersecurity in public institutions and for resolving privacy bottlenecks in decentralisation. I would, of course, like to say something about the land register. Call PowNed showed that anyone in this public register can search for sensitive personal data. The proposal to protect data from specific persons in particular situations is not enough. D66 believes that only those for whom the data are necessary should be able to access it. This can be done with a reporting obligation for public registers, so that people can see who uses which personal data of them and for what purpose. There should also be a data lock on all public registers so that only those who have a legitimate interest can access it, for example after an interest test, such as in Germany. I'd like a response. I'm rounding up. Everyone wants a safer Netherlands, but let's stop with clean appearances, tough language and fake security, and let's opt for real solutions. This is the last budget with the VVD on V and J that we all agree on here, but before the next cabinet gets a move on, there are still crucial months to wait. I'd like to know from this minister if he's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u302	Madam President. I will start where my group colleague left off, namely in the area of safety. The rule of law cannot be without security, but it is based on another important pillar, namely effective legal protection, in conflicts between public authorities and citizens, between employers and employees, between spouses, between neighbours and between businesses and customers. The judge is here to resolve the conflicts that we cannot resolve ourselves. With that certainty in mind, we avoid self-direction. If a supplier can go to court, he will not go to court with a brawl team to get a story from a non-paying customer himself. Then he sends the bailiff with a verdict. Legal protection was shaken by the austerity drive of the Rutte I and Rutte II Cabinets. Not "what's it gonna take?" But "how can it be cheaper" seemed to be the starting point. Fortunately, money will be added for the police and the judiciary, but previous measures which nibble at legal protection will not be reversed. The cabinet has more in store. For example, citizens and businesses were billed under this cabinet. They now pay considerably more if they want to bring a case before the courts. But what does an independent plumber do with an unpaid bill of €78? It's gonna cost more than it costs to get to court. The alternative, the Disputes Committee on Jobs, now also threatens to be closed down if the subsidy is withdrawn by the Cabinet. Can the Minister respond to that? What's the plumber supposed to do now? Suppose that same plumber on a dark November afternoon with his company bus caused an accident because he overlooks and knocks over a cyclist when he turns off. Then who's gonna assist him in criminal proceedings for dangerous driving? Is there, I would ask the Minister, still a good lawyer who has points and can get an addition? If that company bus is impounded by the police for the criminal investigation, will the plumber get it back? How does he prevent his bus from being sold before there's a judge's decision on his complaint? Is that what I ask the Minister to be waiting for? And what happens to the hit cyclist? How long is it gonna take him to get compensation for his broken bike? Mediation has proved to be a way to quickly resolve damage to one another. It is also cheap, because the judge and the Central Judicial Collection Agency don't have to use it anymore. I am therefore surprised that the Minister does not support a continuation of the pilot criminal mediation. Has the Minister involved the fact that compensation through mediation can be arranged so quickly and cheaply, for example, in his decision not to continue that pilot? I like to hear it. I'm coming up with child protection measures. Let's keep thinking. The plumber ends up in a fight divorce with his ex-wife because of his problems, causing his 9-year-old son to get pinched. His little boy flies so off the bend at school, there's a report coming up. The Children's Protection Board is involved and advises to put the boy under supervision. The question arises as to whether the council will be allowed to do so without the intervention of the judge. I would also like to hear the Minister. These are bottlenecks in legal protection, which seem commonplace but which can occur much. They're not imaginary at all. A little less commonplace is the last subject for which I would like to draw attention: judicial errors. There are signs that there are far more than expected and that the threshold for revision is too high. Does the Minister agree with me that this undermines confidence in our justice system? Is he willing to investigate whether there are ways to prevent error or to recover more easily and quickly? I ask all this with understanding for the fact that it is a difficult balance between legal certainty and the possibility of correcting errors. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u303	Mr. Chairman. All good comes in threes. Four years of asylum under the care of this coalition. Four years of rope pulling between the VVD and the PvdA. The VVD wanted to please the PVV-chooser and the PvdA tried to save its ideals. The result? Zigzag policy, chaos, stooge. Unfortunately not only in the Netherlands, but throughout Europe there was division and associated misery. 2016 is the year in which more than 3,000 refugees are trapped in Greek camps in a location where up to 1,000 people fit in. 2016 is the year with the most deaths ever on the Mediterranean. 2016 is the year in which Lebanon and Jordan accused us, the European Union, of doing too little. 2016 is the year in which our asylum policy was outsourced to starting dictator Erdogan. The most characteristic example of the incoherent policy of this cabinet is the bed-bath bread dossier. A year and a half ago, the cabinet balanced on the edge of the abyss. Local directors were kept in uncertainty for a very long time, but last week this Secretary of State pulled the plug on the negotiations. Probably whistled back by the campaign team? Now he says toughly: funding is going to stop and by law local care is simply forbidden. That all makes sense. Tried out? Then you have to go back. Only if you cooperate will there be shelter and you can go to Ter Apel. If you don't cooperate, you'll be on the street. But this Secretary of State also knows that this approach already exists and does not work. Does the Secretary of State recall the Linking Act, with which the Empire would ensure a comprehensive return policy and the municipalities would no longer provide shelter? I hope I do not have to remind the Secretary of State that this return from the street simply does not work. Do we really want to deprive people of the most basic facilities, just because our return policy does not work? What is the Secretary of State going to do with the return and reception of ex-convicts? In which municipalities do the announced rural facilities for foreigners come? I want the funding to municipalities for bed-bath bread to continue as long as there is no conclusive policy. In the letter of amendment, I did not see anything about the deletion of these funds. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he made it to the barracks. I would also like the Secretary of State to waive the legislation he has announced banning municipal care, as long as he himself does not have a better alternative that is also supported by municipalities. I'm asking him if he's willing to do that. I would like to join the Secretary of State in thinking about a better return policy. Is he prepared to see if more can be done to return by releasing specialist capacity at embassies for that purpose? I'd like a response. D66 has worked hard for language lessons from day one for asylum seekers who should be on their hands for months, who cannot start their integration, who cannot work on their future. Research shows that migrants with good language control are two to three times more likely to have a job. After a lot of twitching, a motion of my hand was passed on this more than a year ago, but it took more than a year for the cabinet to write a letter about the execution. Why did this take so long? I can't really think of any other reason than unwillingness and political games. That reaction, more than a year after that, was a plan to do something somewhere in six months, probably after the elections. I ask the Secretary of State, why the delay? Why does the government commit itself to an aid explosion and an integration disaster, and what are the social costs of this delay? Mr President, I will continue! Last year we were here at the height of the refugee crisis. The daily images of buses with asylum seekers from crisis location to crisis location and local drivers with their hands in their hair: complete chaos. Now everyone seems relieved to sit back, because extra shelters are closed and additional IND and COA personnel are sent back out. I ask the Secretary of State: is the cabinet prepared now when that deal with Erdogan collapses? Even if that deal didn't crack, is the cabinet prepared for the additional influx that already seems to be slowly increasing via Georgia and other routes, including the Balkan route? Is it wise to delete all the shelters and do we have a plan of action in the event of an increase in the influx? If you see today's footage of Aleppo, you'll see that city is empty. If you know what's gonna happen in Mosul, you know that town's gonna drain. Those people are going somewhere, and the chances of them choosing Europe and the European Union as their destination are simply very great. Another important point: war criminals and human rights criminals. War criminals hitchhiking in a refugee stream: people are worried about this. I'm not here to scare people, but I do think we should do everything we can to filter those people out. The International Crimes Team has the very important task of signaling, prosecuting and bringing these war criminals to justice. In my opinion, these efforts could use an extra boost. That is why I am tabling an amendment which regulates an additional 2 million to the International Crimes Team. Is the Secretary of State prepared to support that? Finally. My group, supported by the Labour Party, the SP, GroenLinks and the Christian Union, has called for 750 single refugee children from Greece and Italy to be brought to the Netherlands. Twelve have now come to the Netherlands from Greece. Twelve! Of course, that's far too little. In Italy alone, there are 4,000 single children, zero of whom have been relocated. According to the Cabinet, this is due to the "administrative legal complexity" I quote. I do not know exactly what to imagine, but no doubt the Secretary of State is going to explain it to me. I do know that these kids will have very little message about that. I would very much like those 750 refugee children, whom we agree on in the Chamber, to come to the Netherlands and other European countries before Christmas. I'd like action from the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u304	Mr. Chairman. Recently, I was in beautiful Rome. I walked past an old building with on the façade the text "Grazia e Giustitia," Grace and Right. Turns out it's an old building from the Justice Department. In Italy, that ministry used to be called the Ministry of Grace and Law. In 2010, the Christian Union strongly opposed the name name of this ministry and that it became the Ministry of Security and Justice, because the name says something about a ministry. I like that old name from Italy, because it exudes the wonderful ambition to contribute with justice to the restoration of society. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this recovery should be at the forefront of the Ministry's budget. It also includes severe punishment and clear justice, but as part of efforts to restore relations in society, to seek the peace of that society. In this light, I note that after six years of Security and Justice and six years of VVD executives at the helm, the choice to let security go for everything, including in the imagery, has been a wrong one. I am hoping that the ministry will again become a ministry in which the law prevails, i.e. a Ministry of Justice. In many places, in recent years, the ability to work on recovery and justice threatened to get in the background. There were major reorganisations in the police, tight budgets at the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the judiciary, and major problems with the national police. Sometimes there was also an unfortunate act by the minister or hassle at the ministry. However, I would also like to congratulate the Minister. We have had to strongly encourage him and the cabinet from the opposition in recent years, but more money has now been added. And I am truly very pleased with that. But now, as far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, those improved finances must really lead to more focus on justice and recovery. In that context, I would like to begin with a proposal for a court of peace. In Belgium you already have these in certain forms. I was put on the idea by Mr. Frank Visser, previously known as The Driving Judge. He suggested in his booklet Our neighbors many years ago to introduce a district judge in every municipality, where you can go easily. I am not thinking of a canton dish in every municipality or anything like that. My proposal is to have a judge sit on site, in the village or in the city, in a community center, a Security House or a Centre for Youth and Family, where you can submit small cases for a small amount of money. It may be canton cases that are normally dealt with in ordinary canton courts, but as far as we are concerned, it is also common neighbor disputes, in which the question of law is less clear. So it's the middle line between justice and mediation. In both types of case, it is about restoring relations and, where possible, resolving the underlying conflict. Such a proposal can contribute to peace for society and it can ease the burden of ordinary justice. I would like to propose to the Minister that he examine the feasibility of this plan. I intend to table a motion on this matter in the second term. Another point of recovery concerns the exit programmes for prostitutes. Until 2018, 3 million euros are available each year, but the money is out. However, there are still initiatives to set up an exit programme in places where there is nothing yet. We believe it is important that there should also be an offer in these areas. Together with Mr Van der Staaij, I have tabled an amendment to make €100,000 available for this purpose. With compulsory co-financing, this can become an amount that helps a lot of women and men to get out of prostitution. I hope for broad support in the Chamber and from the Minister. When we talk about recovery and rights, of course I come to the EUR 1.5 million for the promotion of recovery rights, as Mr Recourt has already mentioned. There's a line through it. I find that extremely disappointing, because it is so important for victims but also for the lives of perpetrators. They can be put back on the right track. It also helps society move forward. That is why I co-signed the amendment with conviction. If there is one organization in service of recovery and justice, then it is the men and women in blue. I would like to express my appreciation for them here, because I know that they sometimes get a different feeling in politics and that the political direction of that organisation sometimes leaves something to be desired. The fact that the police summit and the works council had recently been compromised doesn't help either. I found the Minister's relativisation in the daily newspaper this weekend with regard to the amount that has been cheated, not wise, I must say honestly. Perhaps the Minister would like to reflect on that again. I want to ask another question because of the trust of the ordinary agents. There are a number of very well-paid advisors within the Ministry or in service with the Ministry, in particular with the police. Among other things, former Chiefs Bouman and Welten are employed as advisers. What advice have they given in the past year? Were they really worth that royal salary of theirs? Maybe the Minister can give some insight into what all advisors in the Ministry who make more than €150,000 actually delivered to products. Is it customary for workers leaving to find themselves in an advisory pool for a large salary? I would like some clarification on that. It's important that the police work integrally. That is why I would like to draw attention to two groups. The first are the boas. I would like a response from the Minister to the proposal of the Society and Security Foundation, the foundation set up by Mr Pieter van Vollenhoven. It calls for the placing of boas as sergeants with the police, so that they have a formal position, thus enabling an integrated approach to security. I find that an interesting thought, because police and municipal boas are now working side by side. Is the Minister prepared to investigate such a construction? A second group that calls attention are the police volunteers. The Minister has put police volunteer policy in the refrigerator because of the reorganisation with the national police. The organisation of police volunteers, LOPV, wants a national volunteer policy to be put in place quickly. There are now major regional differences. This organization, as I understand from the newspaper, has quit and will not talk to the minister until it is clear about the position of police volunteers. I find that very worrying. Police volunteers are people who offer their services with heart for the cause. I think we should deal with this properly and, above all, keep talking to them. I'd like to know what the minister's gonna do to get those police volunteers back to the table soon. Yesterday, the municipality of Amsterdam announced its intention to ban street harassment in the APV. It is a problem: women who are being flogged or get sexually tinted comments thrown to their heads. I welcome that initiative. In The Hague, there was a similar plea from the Christian Union groups, the SGP and the CDA. However, immediately there were also lawyers who indicated that such a ban in the APV is not possible, because criminalising the content of statements is a national competence. Is that right? Is the Minister prepared to bring about a national criminal offence? I am also considering a motion on that point. That is a point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u305	It's street harassment, or sexual harassment on the street. I'm at an advanced stage with a legislative initiative. The question I have put to Mr Van Toorenburg is also addressed to Mr Segers. If he thinks this is so important, does he participate in that bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u306	I think that's a very nice invitation. I see a very open attitude in the PvdA Group. We are a very constructive group. I'd love to think along. That is not so much because this cooperation is on one side, but because we are really tackling a very real problem, namely the safety of often women, but sometimes also men on the streets. The street must be a place of all of us, where people feel safe. If we can promote this safety, I'd be happy to do my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u307	We are convinced that the current legislation is inadequate and that something must be done. That's why there's this legislative initiative. It would be nice if we could get a majority for that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u308	I encourage Mr Marcouch to start this very quickly. If we really want to go further in this period, he must be very quick. I'd be happy to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u309	Mr. Chairman. "Thousands of people are trapped in Greece. The Greek islands where I work as a volunteer are overcrowded. It's inhumane and embarrassing. The Netherlands promises to relocate 4,000 people from Europe and does not keep its promises so far. The Netherlands has thousands of empty beds in the shelter. It's warm, dry and safe. It's a place where people could wait for their procedures. Why don't we pick these people up?" This is a quote from a letter I received yesterday. It's not the only letter I got. Almost every week I get letters from volunteers working there on Lesbos. It's actually my question to the Secretary of State. By now, 16,000 people in degrading situations are stuck on those Greek islands. They're in the cold and the rain, children and the elderly. It's a disgrace to me. It is a failing asylum policy for Europe. We need to speed up the screening. So does the Secretary of State. That would be better if Europe and the Netherlands were to help Greece. When is that gonna happen, especially to save those single kids from the claws of human traffickers and pimps? How many of those 750 children about whom the Secretary of State has made a commitment have already been included in the Netherlands? Meanwhile today several hundred cars were ready to get these people out of the camps in Greece, with the action We're going to get them. Today, I was handed something over from a hooded driver. Will the Secretary of State also help these people get them? Then I come to the other group that is in danger of falling into the cold in the Netherlands. The consultation with the municipalities about bed-bath bread has been terminated by the Secretary of State. Municipalities are now being financially punished for this, while return policy is the final piece of his own asylum policy and not that of the municipalities. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to resume negotiations without conditions. Otherwise the parties will not come out. Come out, give them the help they need and literally don't let them stand in the cold. I say that about the proceedings, but also about the municipalities. I am also saying it in the direction of the Labour Party. In the event that the Secretary of State does not wish to do so, we have made an amendment with various parties in the Chamber calling for this funding to be made available to the municipalities, at least as long as there is no agreement with the UNG. Finally, I come to the asylum children and the many relocations. The Secretary of State recently sent a letter on this matter. He says to opt for azc's that stay open for a long time so that the children do not have to move, but also recently 52 children have moved from Almelo. There was no need. Can I ask the Secretary of State again? Please, the moment those kids go to school, leave them in those schools and don't move them anymore. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u310	Mr. Chairman. Following an approved motion by GroenLinks, yesterday the Secretary of State finally sent the anonymised minutes of the granted requests for a children's pardon permit to the Chamber. Turned out there weren't 40, but even less, 29. We have not been able to read all the minutes, but a large part of the cases are cases where a residence permit should be granted in any case. There's gotta be another way. The criterion of participation must be applied with a more human dimension. For example, it is not fair to expect people to spontaneously prepare their departure from the Netherlands or arrange documents at the embassy of their country of origin, if this embassy does not cooperate. I come to this point with a follow-up motion. After a year and a half of negotiations, Secretary of State Dijkhoff pulled the plug last week in the consultation with the municipalities about the bed-bath-bread shelter for processed asylum seekers. Municipalities pick it out with ex-asylum seekers who can't leave the country. In fact, the Secretary of State is working on a ban for municipalities to provide shelter at all to the outlaws. Municipalities have achieved asylum care in the last two years under great social pressure. They have therefore taken on their responsibilities, but so far Secretary of State Dijkhoff has not provided a solution for asylum seekers who cannot return to their country of origin. That is now being passed on to municipalities. Stink for thanks! It's no good to anyone that we let people sleep on the streets in the winter. GroenLinks therefore calls for a committee of wise men to be set up to settle the disagreement between municipalities and the State Secretary. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? The COA has announced the removal of one third of the jobs due to the reduction in the number of asylum seekers. In this light, GroenLinks considers it all the more incomprehensible that the Secretary of State refuses to bring more refugees from Greece and Italy as agreed, arguing that we would not have enough capacity. Can he explain how he can unite these two things? The problems that the next cabinet has to solve in the area of justice are great. The house of the national police is cold and is already a wreck. One affair after the other comes to light. The working environment of the security system has been seriously compromised. The Netherlands is leaving behind in the terrorism approach. There is international criticism of the draconian anti-terrorism legislation, but in practice suspects are too easy to get under the radar. And although the worst cuts have been cancelled for the time being, the rule of law is in urgent need of renovation. The Minister's reaction, which portrays himself as a tidy person, is characteristic: not gloomy, not exaggerate. In short, let's be happy, right? But the number of acquittals is increasing. The compensation for wrongful detention is increasing. Right now, there's probably more convicts than we think possible for crimes they've never committed. In his main editorial comment, Folkert Jensma denounced the effectiveness of Dutch criminal justice. The police have only a limited picture of what people do to each other. The Public Prosecutor's Office dismisses about half of all the cases it is aware of. Pakkans and chance of punishment surprised the General Court a few years ago. In the Netherlands, the right to go to court is recognised in the Constitution. In a peaceful society, you do not fight disputes with the fist, but you ask the judge for an independent judgment. Fortunately, after years of cutting back on equity, a temporary pass seems to be made, an opportunity for a high level of maintenance of the rule of law. It is not surprising that, in a situation of runaway legislative drive, complex legal proceedings are often taking place. Successive ministers ask citizens not to go to court in particular, but to ignore the fact that citizens often have no alternative and are sometimes sucked into proceedings by governments themselves. Is the Minister prepared to light his light in Britain, where new digital forms of justice are not offered as a substitute, but as a complement to traditional justice? The preliminary results are innovations and improved access to justice. Citizens know more quickly through digital intakes and efficient information on how the legal situation is in place. Digital justice prevents lengthy traditional procedures and contributes to a fast, accessible and cheaper judicial process. We have to take that chance. That does not mean, however, that we must break down the traditional course of justice. On the contrary. We must prevent social lawyers and the judiciary from becoming a crepe model by directing legal aid payments. For example, by squeezing the fees for council members in police interviews, the Minister denies access to justice and legal counsellors a fair remuneration for their important work. The overload of police officers, prosecutors and judges is a major shift in the effective functioning of the rule of law, and this needs to be resolved. GroenLinks will grant the minister the transition to Artis, which he has ambitioned. However, the directors are still in place. GroenLinks therefore wants to know what the political agenda of both directors is for the coming period. What legacy do they wish to leave to Security and Justice for their successors? Is that an all-expensive farewell party and "after us the flood" or is the Minister going to do anything to get things in order? The Minister and the Secretary of State will undoubtedly read their newspapers. Playing old affair on. For example, what was really the department's influence on the police decision to show pathologist George Maat the door? Why has it not been investigated that El Bakraoui probably bribed the Turkish authorities to be deported not to Belgium but to the Netherlands? Those who step over such an inheritance may retain their sunny mood, but they do not recognize the importance for which the department is entrusted to their concerns, namely that of security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u311	Mr. Chairman. "A superministry" is called it regularly, the Ministry of Security and Justice. Unfortunately for the rulers, this has not led to the presence of a super-minister and a super-secretary. This designation is mainly intended for the large scope of the tasks entrusted to the Ministry of Security and Justice. That's true. The core tasks of the government, contributing to the pursuit of security and justice, indeed come together in this ministry. This has always been a huge task over the years, including for the rulers in this important ministry. You also saw in recent years that the problems in the reorganisation of the police required a lot of attention, as did the increase in the terrorist threat, a massively higher asylum influx and still a substantial number of cases and incidents. The 2012 government agreement promised extra commitment to security. Especially when we look back at the legislative activity and the policy that has been developed, we see that there has been a great deal of commitment to which the SGP Group has often expressed its support. Ensuring safety, ensuring that the toolbox is well-stocked is also part of the public service remit and is part of the mission of Security and Justice. As far as financial investment is concerned, we can see that the cuts have been substantial and that it is high time to invest more in security. In fact, the real security policy is still budgeted less than five years ago in 2017. When we look at the challenge that still exists in raising the figures for detection and prosecution alone, we see that it is necessary to continue investing in security in the coming period. Then there's gotta be real money, too. Investing in security requires a sufficient number of district agents who know their neighborhood or village and indicate when problems occur. When will the promised investigation into the guarantee of this legal standard per neighborhood come? We've often crossed swords about getting the legal standard for neighborhood agents. When's that gonna be okay? Safety and Justice is also the employer of many people who are working hard every day to achieve something of that security and justice and who deserve our warm support. The government has to support these people. If allegations of violence, for example, or allegations of ethnic profiling have been made against them, this should be clarified as soon as possible. It is not only the system that needs to be adapted, but also the clarity that needs to be provided in good time. I would also urge speed with the legislative proposal that has been announced on this subject. Colleagues have already drawn attention to it. An agent from Enschede, to name but one of many examples, has been waiting for months for a decision on how his case is going to proceed, including an accusation of ethnic profiling. That case has been extensive in the media. He's being addressed on the street, so to speak. It's incredibly incriminating that this should take so long. Is the Minister prepared to make clear agreements with the State's Attorney General and the State's Attorney General to ensure that, in principle, agents know what they are up to within three weeks, that clarity is provided? We have spent a great deal of time fighting terrorism in recent years. Let me say this very briefly. The SGP Group also attaches great importance to both its efforts in the field of prevention, with the use of district agents and the prevention of tensions, as well as its efforts in the field of repression, with a well-stocked toolbox and effective punishment of terrorist offences. We would also like to see this legislation on the criminalisation of travel to terrorist areas. This concerns the implementation of the Zijlstra c.s. motion. In addition to handling through criminal law, there is also a need for a coherent administrative approach. A few weeks ago, our motion was adopted asking for a ban on the territory of the Netherlands or an exit ban on France, for example. We call on the Minister to take urgent action to implement the motion. What is his concrete commitment to achieving this, if possible, together with other European countries? It is no secret that the SGP Group does not approve of the current conditional release regime. We have also discussed this with each other on a regular basis in debates. After serving two thirds of the sentence, the prisoner is in principle released. In fact, someone with a 12-year sentence is only in prison for eight years. We have prepared a bill to change this. The essence of the proposal is that the virtually automatic penalty reduction will disappear and that the judge will be able to impose conditional penalty in future. But he doesn't have to. So he can offer more customization. The conditional part may be only one quarter of the sentence and up to four years. When imposing the punishment, it is immediately clear, so is the thought, for which part the punishment is unconditional and for which part the punishment is conditional. With this proposal, the SGP aims to clarify the exact penalty, to use severe penalties, to respect social discontent about the penalty reduction of a third, while continuing to make full use of re-socialisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u312	I have a question for Mr Van der Staaij. When judges impose a sentence, they just look at what's actually in someone's mind. If you impose ten years, you know that after two thirds the door opens. That last part, which is a third, you use or if someone is misbehaving in detention or if it is free again. So what is the point of this proposal, other than calling it something else? The net prison sentence will remain identical.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u313	In any case, what it delivers is more clarity to society and also to the next of kin. You can say, "Everyone knows that so slowly." But every time I notice that a lot of people just when they get more personal with it say: oh, does that indeed work; is this the effect? Then you have the feeling that you will be held to account if a sentence of 18 years has been imposed and someone is released after 12 years, for example in serious homicide cases. If this is clarified right away, it is worth a lot of trust from society. And I don't know what the effects will be on the actual sentence. If the unconditional penalty in a serious murder case would eventually be 12 years, it could also be that the judge says: is 12 years really not too short? Perhaps there will be a feeling that a longer sentence is needed and that the balance will shift slightly more to a larger part unconditionally and to a smaller part conditionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u314	I think we judges are failing if we say they don't know the effect of their punishment. But if that's the problem, isn't that a lot easier to solve? Instead of changing the law, you need to organize the information a little better. Say, if twelve years are imposed, that means in practice: two thirds actually unless one behaves badly and then the whole sentence is at issue. In short, with information you achieve exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u315	I think education is a little too thin. If the problem is that you keep getting the wrong picture again and again, why don't you say exactly what you really want? That is an unconditional punishment of a certain number of years and then a period in which you still have room for probation surveillance, other appointments, probation and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u316	The SP is concerned about the period of socialisation. It is precisely the period of conditional release, with which Mr Van der Staaij ended his last reply, that is being shortened in the SGP proposal. So the period in which you can force someone on the right path because there is still a criminal law framework, so that you can force someone to go to probation, to abide by the terms and so on, is shortened in Mr Van der Staaij's proposal. Isn't that the risk to socialization?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u317	It doesn't necessarily have to be shorter. A long suspended sentence can still be imposed. Ultimately, the idea that customization is possible for the judge and that that period of a third is not automatic, but that it can be shorter or longer. There is a certain variation in that. I agree with the Group of the Party of European Socialists that there should always be room for a criminal title in order to have sufficient time to impose conditions and to keep an eye on someone. I would also like to distribute a copy of the draft legislative proposal to the members of the cabinet and the MPs present here. A draft legislative proposal is not a formal one, but I think it is a good idea for colleagues to put forward the text of the proposal and the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u318	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u319	That's good. We are going to look at this with interest, but the essence of that proposal is precisely to shorten the period of conditional release. Mr Van der Staaij has just explained this. But just if you want someone to abide by the conditions, regulate their aggression, go to those courses and no longer take resources like alcohol and drugs, then you have to invest in that period. Combating relapses and preventing victims is precisely what you do in that last period. I hope that Mr Van der Staaij will continue to pay attention to this and not shorten the period in which you can force someone to go straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u320	I have already indicated that we consider it important to have enough room and to keep up with actual measures. As far as I am concerned, this starts in detention and in the period of suspended detention. That is what we are looking for in our proposal. It's always gotta stay up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u321	My party has already tabled several motions on this matter. That's what my colleague De Roon started with. The SGP was always against that. I would like to say one thing, actually two, but on one of them, Mr Van der Staaij has just replied to Mr Van Nispen's interruption. I also heard Mr Van der Staaij say: to offer as much security as possible. Then my question would be, because that was also a motion against which the SGP was against: if the conditions were violated, my group's proposal would be that the conditional release be lifted. Ergo: then the person who violated the conditions actually goes back to prison for the rest of the sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u322	We join the system in the law of parole. That is the same thing. If conditions have been violated, the sentence must also be served. I agree with that point of view. That is not what is happening. If I have wronged the PVV's motions in the past, I would like to take a closer look at that. I certainly didn't mean to do that. The SGP had already stated in its election programme in recent years that it would like to shape early release in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u323	Mr Van der Staaij, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u324	On this point, I have a specific question for the rulers. A motion has been passed to see what is wrong with the early release system and how it could be otherwise. I ask the directors to include the plans as we have now worked out in this proposal in the investigation. If a person is convicted of two sentences of one year, a third part of the sentence is also reduced at the same time as the sentence is executed. We do not think that, apart from the system discussion we have just been discussing, is fair compared to someone who suffers twice a year of loose punishment. Is the Minister prepared to investigate how this can be improved? I have one specific point to make in this connection. Only if a sentence is irrevocable will conditional release be subject to conditions and supervision. A smart convict may, by appealing or in cassation, prevent his sentence from becoming irrevocable. With any luck, two thirds of his sentence will be over. That's how a man gets out without being supervised. In this context, there is talk in circles of the Public Prosecutor's Office and probation of an error in law. Does the Minister recognize this? And if so, is he willing to fix that mistake? We were just talking about the importance of re-socialization. In this context, we would like to call for an impetus for volunteering among prisoners, as is also designed by a number of smaller and larger institutions, such as Exodus, Humanitas, Prisoners' Care Netherlands and BONJO. Thousands of volunteers are active in it. It is precisely the connection with society that ensures an effective commitment to socialisation. Is the Minister willing to use part of the extra budget for craftsmanship DJI for volunteers? I have tabled an amendment on this with Mr Segers. Voluntary craftsmanship is at least as important for good functioning, also seen from those who volunteer to contribute to it. The idea is that this will also keep the co-financing going and give an incentive. There are also private funds that are already committed to volunteering among prisoners. An additional contribution from the Empire would make an additional contribution from these funds. The knife then cuts both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u325	I'm gonna hit BONJO. We also believe that this is a very important organisation. This also applies to the other organisations, but I would like to talk specifically about BONJO. The people there say: we do not need any extra money at all at the moment, but we would like to participate in the application for subsidies. That's what we're afraid of. Does Mr Van der Staaij agree with us that we should pay close attention to this and that we should ask the Cabinet to at least give BONJO a fair chance of applying for a grant?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u326	Mr Recourt mentioned a fair chance of applying for a grant. We've agreed on a grant framework. That has been evaluated and we had a report on it last year. Not all organisations thought in the same way about a fair use of these funds. In line with a previously adopted Parliamentary motion, we attach importance to social rooting and to the access to private funds. That makes you stronger as a social organisation than when you say: we do volunteer work, but we actually don't have any money from society itself. In that respect, I remain in favour of this earlier motion. On the contrary, I hear signals from existing organisations saying that extra money could help us to reach more people, make more family visits and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u327	I'm just trying to understand Mr Van der Staaij. I think we're in front of the same thing, except he says we need extra money. But what does he say about the grant application? Again, that is my concern. We frame it so that an organization like BONJO can't even knock, because it is said: your organizational structure must be just as different, otherwise you won't fit into the framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u328	If it is true that unreasonable restrictive requirements are being imposed, then that must be considered critically. I agree with Mr Recourt. But if we are faced with other demands that the Chamber has said we must be able to show them enough, such as social rooting, then I think it is a different story. The co-financing, which must also be managed, should not be put aside in order to serve such an organisation. Mr Segers has already explained why we are tabling an amendment to the exit programmes. We would also like to see a generous implementation of the motion on the common policy vision on exit programmes. This is a matter of both national and local importance. We would like to see a continued commitment to these important programmes. The term "mediation" has also been mentioned a number of times today. Legislation is in the process of being prepared. The current Minister for Security and Justice has been working on this in the past as a Member of Parliament. The proposal for an initiative has even been dealt with in the first period, but the discussion has subsequently gone wrong because he became a minister. I hope that the legislation announced on this issue will be vigorously implemented. I will continue with a few comments on asylum policy. The large flow of foreigners has clearly revealed the weakness of European asylum policy. The government therefore rightly believes that the ultimate objective of policy should be to ensure that asylum seekers can immediately be returned to safe, structural host communities in the region. However, the EU responds to this mainly with new red tape and high costs as a result of the transposition of the new directives into regulations. We are not convinced that this will lead to improvement. Regulations also maintain differences in practice between Member States. This intermediate phase does lead to a great deal of red tape, because our current legislation and regulations need to be transposed. Why is the government not more critical of the subsidiarity of these plans? Is the cabinet equally committed to concluding agreements with countries in the region? Are we moving forward at that point? Unfortunately, the return of foreigners remains a worry child. Without a large-scale return of opportunityless foreigners, a strict asylum policy is not taken seriously. The Bishop/Van Haersma Buma motion calls for a relaxation of European rules to improve return. What is the real point of that? I would also like to draw particular attention to the Christian asylum seekers from Pakistan. In practice, the security offered by the government on paper is far from satisfactory. Does the Secretary of State clearly take this point into account in his policy on the basis of the expected statement of office? I realize I'm in injury time, so I'm shutting down. However, there was still a minute in the jar of other budgets. It is necessary that the government is reliable and invests in the confidence of the citizen. We are all regularly dealing with interest groups, with concerned citizens who say that they are very concerned about the functioning of the rule of law in a particular area. Last time I spoke to a number of such interest groups. The Ministry has undoubtedly also been approached, by a committee of troubled citizens and so on. What's the Ministry's reaction to that? How can this mistrust be met? And how can trust in the government be maintained or strengthened?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u329	Mr. Chairman. The government's promise at the beginning of this reign was that the Netherlands would become safer, that criminals would be treated hard, that the police would get closer to the people and that the judiciary would become more accessible. From the past four years, we have kept up with the following events. A minister has resigned, a secretary of state has resigned, there have been controversial deals, there has been a lost receipt, there has been regular misinformation to the Chamber and there have been claims scandals, resulting in a huge dent in the confidence of our citizens in our rule of law. The Chamber has also tabled several motions of censure against this minister. The criticism does not remain within national boundaries. We see an increase in international criticism. Yesterday, Minister Van der Steur was flagged by the Council of Europe. Counter-terrorism in the Netherlands is getting worse, says the Council. The Commissioner for Human Rights, Nils Muižnieks, I hope I speak out well, warns that repressive measures lead to stigmatisation and alienation of certain social groups. According to Muižnieks, prevention is the key to the fight against terrorism. He warned that certain measures might conflict with the conventions on human rights signed by the Netherlands. How does the Minister feel about that? Does he care about this criticism? Or does he stick to his extremist terror policy? Or does he say he's sorry? This minister also goes into history as "excuus minister." He makes countless mistakes, says he's sorry and goes on. An excuse is serious when you take lessons from it. This Minister repeats this all too often. The Ministry of Security and Justice, or the party office of the VVD, has not functioned sufficiently in the past four years. Those are harsh words, but unfortunately that is the reality. There is little money to invest in the police, but remarkably enough there is enough money for farewell parties of dubious former officials. For example, I call Joris Demmink. For citizens in the country: he is a controversial former top man of the Ministry of Security and Justice and also a member of the VVD. He was known, among other things, for his excessive declarations and even more shady things. On behalf of the Ministry of Security and Justice, those same VVDs organized a farewell party for the Ministry of Security and Justice. I repeat: €34,000. That's the annual salary of a hardworking Dutchman. We find that shameless. One evening in the Hague Knight's Room 1,142 glasses of wine were drunk with community money, while the citizens in our country do not dare to go to the hospital because they are afraid of a high bill, children cannot go on school trips because their parents cannot afford it and many people in our country wonder what money they still have to do with groceries at the end of the month. Clearly, there's a lot of things wrong with the Ministry of Security and Justice. This ministry has become too big a department. The direction is missing, just like Fred Teeven's receipt. Any police officer can tell you that if the crowd is too big, it's gonna be hard to keep the overview. This also applies to the sample ministry of V and J. It's clear: V and J failed, it's time for change. In any case, the police should return to the Ministry of the Interior in the next period. I also want to talk about the national police. While the trend in the government is that all sectors are organised on a decentralised basis to bring them closer to the citizen, the police organisation has become more remote from the citizen. Citizens' confidence in the police has fallen in recent years. While the police are supposed to be your best comrade, we've seen examples of police officers taking advantage of their power to be a cowboy. I appreciate most of the policemen, but I criticize people who abuse their power and position to belittle and insult other people. A year ago, I was standing here because I felt that the research on Mitch Henriquez was too long to wait. I told you it was five months too late. After a year, we can take stock again. The investigation is still ongoing. My specific question to the Minister is: when is that route expected to be completed? The poignant examples do not stop. For example, we recently saw an 84-year-old Moroccan Dutchman being brutally arrested. Imagine it's your grandfather getting handcuffed. Would you consider the police to be your comrade or someone you prefer not to work with? After seeing those images, I think the second option is not surprising. Citizens are in danger of completely losing confidence in the police. The number of examples of ethnic profiling increases by the day. It is therefore necessary to increase the participation of citizens. DENK wants to organize the police closer to the citizen. Citizens need to have a say in 20% of the police deployment in their neighbourhood. Citizens know what's going on in their neighborhood and what's needed. The police must pay serious attention to this. We also believe that the Public Prosecutor's Office should be given more room to deal with and prosecute discrimination and racism. At the moment, we do not see enough of this happening. The D.A. had announced that it would be hard to tackle discrimination, but it did not succeed. Only a quarter of the declarations are dealt with by the Public Prosecutor. Does the Minister intend to invest more in this and to free up more capacity for it? I would also like to talk about the accessibility of the legal system. We believe that justice should be accessible to all. Right is not a right if it becomes a privilege. That is why we are in favour of removing the closure of courts, of investing in the quality of justice and the criminal justice chain, and of reducing registry rights and the own contribution to legal proceedings. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I would also like to talk about asylum seekers in our country, the people who may be having the most difficult time. These people have fled war zones in search of more security and justice. While these people deserve a generous reception, this government feels that they should be given a sober shelter. I can say one thing: we have found in recent years that austerity and solidarity do not go hand in hand. In the bed-bath-bread scheme we all too often forget the most important b and that is the b of civilization. The Secretary of State sometimes thinks that he is the campaign leader of the VVD, while he must be the Secretary of State for everyone. This cabinet needs to stop scaring and get support. It seems as if problems are being deliberately created. Because if you put a mega-azc in a village where several hundred people live, you ask for trouble. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State to review his policy. Be united and not sober. Secretary of State, let your heart speak and think with your heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u330	Mr. Chairman. "I'm doing pretty well," said the Minister of Security and Justice in an interview last Saturday in the Algemeen Dagblad. The minister complimented himself. It was very comical to read. It is comical and at the same time totally unbelievable. The performance of this minister is, of course, appalling. All these years of VVD in the Ministry have led to a huge mess: from Teevendeal to Teeventap and from Volkert van der Graaf to the case-Professor Maat. There was a lie and a blunder. We saw disrespectful top officials and outgoing executives. There was chaos and unrest at the top of the ministry. Two thick reports were needed to clarify the money laundering deal with a criminal. It was all very painful to see. Despite the VVD-election promise in 2012, it became more unsafe in the Netherlands. Under this cabinet, more than half of the police stations closed their doors. While thousands of convicts are currently out there, many prisons are being shut down as well. Murderers and terrorists, such as Mohammed B., will soon be able to be released early thanks to a proposal from Secretary of State Dijkhoff. It's absurd VVD policy. Of course, we are still struggling with the failure of the national police. The reorganisation already cost twice as much and was severely delayed. The situation is only getting worse, because there is still a huge shortage of district agents. Moreover, absenteeism in the police force is twice as high as the national average. Only 26% of the crimes are resolved. There is often little point in making a declaration. The willingness to report is therefore terrifyingly low, especially in the case of vandalism, sexual crimes and cybercrime. In several police forces, the working environment is completely fucked up. The biggest scandal was the self-enrichment by the works council. In the interview, the minister was laconically talking about it. It was only an amount of EUR 1.5 million that may have been wrongly spent. The arrogance was drowning. The Minister of Security and Justice should consider a course of self-reflection instead of private parties at the embassy in Paris. How is it possible that such enormous problems have arisen, including under his supervision? I'd like to hear a response. The shit doesn't stop. Due to computer failures at customs, hard drugs enter our country unhindered through the port of Rotterdam. Drug criminals are free to go under this cabinet. At the same time, it grabs the driver disproportionately hard in the wallet. Road checks on motorways have only one objective: the bailout of the Treasuries. Each time, this minister sets the wrong priorities. The approach to terrorism is inadequate due to clumsyness and amateurism. False police phones lead terrorists to just keep going. Returned jihadists are not locked up preventively, but are helped to find a home, work and training. The naive policy is really terrible to see. Last year a record number of asylum seekers entered the Netherlands. Due to a lack of capacity, insufficient screening was carried out. So we do not know who is currently staying in our country, while several attacks showed that terrorists abused the asylum influx. According to the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator, there are currently 80 terrorists in Europe preparing attacks. In the coming period, a flood of IS fighters towards Europe can also be expected. The open border policy of this cabinet appears to be extremely dangerous. Now the Marechaussee would also have too little budget to carry out all its tasks. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? I'd like to hear a response. The migrants not only bring terror, but also cause an enormous wave of crime. In Germany, they commit almost 800 crimes every day. The problems are also very serious in the Netherlands, from thieving Moroccan asylum seekers in Groningen to rejected asylum seekers who creak buildings in Amsterdam. We say: turn off this scum as soon as possible and of course without that perverse departure bonus. I'm rounding up. Security is the core task of the government. This is precisely what the Rutte II cabinet has been making incredibly cutbacks in recent years. The rudder has to change drastically. My party, VNL, proposes, among other things, an additional 1 billion for the police and our security services, more blue in the streets and high penalties for serious crimes, the preventive detention of returned jihadists, the closing of borders for asylum seekers and, finally, the introduction of a point passport for people of dual nationality. They are overrepresented in crime statistics. If all points are lost, in the case of one or more crimes, the Dutch Federation will cease to exist. That is not an unfeasible proposal at all. In the event of a conviction for a terrorist offence, the withdrawal of the passport is already possible. We say to the cabinet: extend this legislation, because Dutch people crave more security. They deserve a government that takes care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u331	Mr. Chairman. I will add five more points so that we can keep it clear at this time of day in the debate. First of all, I would like to respond to an interesting written conversation between me and both the Minister and the Secretary of State on the truth in the provision of youth aid and the presence of family guardians in court. I hear all sorts of reports about the absence of family guardians during court hearings and the fact that this is damaging the truth and the trust of those involved. The Minister states in answers to my questions that he has no knowledge of the numbers. Then he says it doesn't happen that often either. My question then is: how often does it occur and can the Minister investigate it? We also discussed the taking of an oath by staff members of the Council for the Protection of Children and Certified Institutions. The Minister's answer was: no, it takes time. The Secretary of State's answer was: no, that has no added value. I'm not convinced of that. Why establish a complex procedure for subsequent complaints when, under Article 3.3 of the Youth Act, truth can also be secured in advance by taking an oath? Another point can be found on page 53 of the V and J budget. It says that, according to the Minister, youth protection measures can now be taken by the Council of Ministers for the Protection of Children, since in 90% to 95% of cases opinions of the Council are already taken over by the courts. I fell off my chair when I read that. It is incomprehensible how the Minister is destroying a fundamental right of everyone, namely an independent review of a case by the judiciary. I come to my next point. In his letter of 28 October, the Minister rigorously announced that he would pull the plug on the successful pilot mediation in criminal matters. That too is incomprehensible. The 80% success rate wipes the Minister off the table simply because there would be no money. First of all, this is contrary to the law because the Code of Criminal Procedure instructs mediation. In addition, it reduces all those involved who have been able to come closer to each other as a result of mediation, in a way that can be beneficial to all parties and society. I therefore firmly support Mr Recourt's amendment. I come to my final point. Free-minded politics means that there must be development opportunities for everyone, including all asylum seekers. Taalles from day one is urgently needed, but it is absurd to let people, regardless of whether they are competitive or not, learn Dutch if we do not know if they can stay here. That's why I think it's much better to give everyone English language lessons first. Someone can use that in the Netherlands too. If his request for asylum is rejected, it may also be useful in another country. If the applicant is allowed to stay, the step to learning Dutch is easier. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. For the rest, legal status holders should also receive a basic income, as should everyone over 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-11-30-tweedekamer-9.u332	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister and the Secretary of State intend to answer as many questions in writing as possible. That's gonna be late tonight, given the amount of questions. Tomorrow we will proceed with the debate on the budget around 10.30 p.m.
