ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. As is always the case with a VOC, the speaking time is two minutes per group, including any motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We had a general discussion this morning in preparation for the JHA Council, which I understand will also take place tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. The subject of discussion included the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I am well aware that no decision-making will take place in the next few days, but I think it is very important that during the Dutch Presidency of Europe there should also be a mention of the critical attitude of at least part of this Parliament to the developments surrounding the European Public Prosecutor's Office. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[establishing that broad provisional agreement appears to have been reached within the JHA Council on Articles 1 to 35 of the draft Regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office (EOM);]] [[noting that the remaining articles, by their nature, would be less controversial and partly technical in nature and would be further negotiated;]] [[noting that, in accordance with the current draft editing for the EPPO, the power to prosecute arises;]] [[Whereas, moreover, it cannot be ruled out that, in the long term, the number of offences for which the EPPO can be extended to include a larger institution than at the outset;]] [[Whereas alternatives are also available to prevent and address abuses of EU grant funds, including withdrawal of EU grants, the use of the resources of national investigation bodies and the efforts of the European Anti-Fraud Office;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the forthcoming JHA Council of the still existing critical attitude of the House of Representatives, in particular of the transfer of powers described and their possible consequences;]] [[It also calls on the government, bearing in mind the Van Oosten/Segers motion (32317, No. 302) did not agree with (parts of) the proposal except after the Second Chamber had given a ruling on the complete final result,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Segers, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-398]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. I've been following the general consultation due to remote circumstances. I have heard the Minister say that at the end it becomes clear whether the Netherlands will participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office and that it is still possible to reject it altogether if the House of Representatives and, of course, the First Chamber decide to do so. I have also heard the Minister say that in addition to the Netherlands, four Member States have adopted this strategy. My question to the Minister is which four Member States they are. Returning on and on the basis of Mr Van Oosten's motion on behalf of the VVD, my group has always been against a European Public Prosecutor's Office, in whatever form. A motion has been tabled to that effect. The fellow Member I mentioned just now spoke out of hand with that motion. At the end, however, he stuck a few words to it, namely not to agree to a European Public Prosecutor's Office in its present form. Next, the VVD continues on a road that you do not have to travel at all. It is always possible that there will be a European Public Prosecutor's Office. My group is fundamentally opposed to this and therefore does not go along with hitting picket poles on a dead end road and a road that you should not have gone down at all. Hopefully the VVD will have the knowledge of the present and future, namely: the European Public Prosecutor's Office will greatly extend its powers. That's gonna cost capacity at our own state's attorney's office and the police. We shouldn't have that at all. Maybe it's better to go all or half astray, or turn around, or I don't know. What is it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u4	It's better halfway back than all the way down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u5	Yes, thank you. Then I can take a breath. You don't have to go on that road. Perhaps the VVD will return at its pace and eventually there will be no European Public Prosecutor's Office. That's the hope I'm expressing. That leaves me with a few seconds. As far as my group is concerned, there will be no European Public Prosecutor's Office, not now or never.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. Let me at least start by saying that it would be wise for the PVV to support that motion in the end. At least we'll have some counterweight. If we don't, you'll eventually see it just roll through. Because of a matter of principle, the PVV will ultimately be responsible for the formation of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u7	This form of entrapment does not allow Mrs Helder to go over her side. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u8	No, I am certainly not going to let that go on my side on behalf of my group. I remember three years ago I asked former Minister Opstelten if he didn't like his job because he was no longer politically responsible for a European Public Prosecutor or a European Public Prosecutor. Everyone laughed at me, including the colleague from the CDA Group. I am not doing anything else about entrapment, but I would like to hit this little pickpost: my group was the first and the only one who immediately said that the European Public Prosecutor should never get there. Any reproach towards us, therefore, does not touch either side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u9	It's never gonna be laughing, but it's just laughing. That is exactly what the CDA Group is so critical about: what does this mean for the power of designation and the principle of opportunity? That is precisely why we have signed this motion. You can keep shouting from the sidelines "we're against, we're against, we're against," but if you get the opportunity to support a motion that really makes us move on the spot, then take that chance. Otherwise, this will just roll through with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u10	I hear the spokesman for the CDA Group saying that she is constantly calling from the sidelines "we are against, we are against, we are against." Well, the previous spokesperson didn't call that at all. I was still questioning the CDA. I knew that the CDA Group did not approve of the proposal, but she never said that the EOM would not be there as far as she was concerned. What's the point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u11	No, I said the PVV just "we're against, we're against, we're against" says. If there is then a motion to calm this down, the PVV does not support it and it just happens. We say very clearly that we want the integrated picture. We would like an explanation from the Minister on this point and on opportunity. I think that's important. Mr Recourt is right to point out that we will eventually have to make up our minds when everything is there. However, we want to remain very critical and send a signal, even in Europe, again today and also tomorrow at the Council. We're very critical, aren't we? We need to see how it takes shape in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mrs Helder, I am a little hesitant, because of course part of the discussion has already been discussed in general consultation, but you were not there. Well, short, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u13	My colleague from the CDA wasn't there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u14	Oh, I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u15	I almost have to help the Minister here, because it is not as my colleague from the CDA suggests. If we do not support this motion, earlier motions which we have not supported on this point, are picket posts on a dead end road, it does not mean that at the end of the journey we are still unable to maintain our position that there should be no European Public Prosecutor's Office. That is what I want to say, because that is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u16	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u17	If anyone goes against that so hard, there must be some truth in what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u18	I see that Mr Recourt had registered to intervene, but not to speak. The Minister can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the motion by Mr Van Oosten and other members of the Chamber, perhaps it would be good to have a look at what we have generally shared with each other. Not all members of the Chamber could be present. That is why it is perhaps appropriate for me to repeat this in plenary. The state of affairs is that there will be a European Public Prosecutor's Office, because a vast majority of Member States are strongly in favour of a European Public Prosecutor's Office. The question of the conditions under which the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be established depends on the negotiations currently taking place in Europe. The Dutch Presidency is in charge of this. I indicated today that we are doing our utmost to bring this forward as best we can, but that we are now sticking to the motion tabled by Mr Van Oosten together with Mr Segers of the Christian Union. It states that we should not in any way agree to interim decisions. These interim decisions have been taken three times under the Luxembourg Presidency. Three packages of articles negotiated have been submitted to the Council of Ministers. As a result of that motion, the Netherlands has explicitly indicated that it will not be able to agree to those articles and only be able to agree or to give an opinion on the overall package when that overall package is available. I have confirmed once again today that this assessment of the overall package will only be given after consultation with the Chamber. This applies both to the Second Chamber and to the First Chamber, because both Chambers have taken clear positions on the European Public Prosecutor's Office and have indicated that at the end of the negotiation process they wish to assess the overall package on its merits, as Mrs Van Toorenburg has also indicated. The Dutch Government has therefore indicated at three specific moments that it will not be able to agree to those articles and that it will not be able to give a judgment until the end. This means that there will be a European Public Prosecutor's Office, but the question is whether the Netherlands will participate. That is the essential question. In my view, this question can only be answered when the overall package is for the Court to assess. I'm going into the motion now. I shall, of course, leave the considerations to the applicants. It will be clear that I may find some of these points to be appropriate, but that is not very relevant. The motion confirms once again that the Dutch Government must comply with the Van Oosten/Segers motion. I confirm that we will. The second point is that it is called upon to "bring out the critical attitude of the House of Representatives." I can say that there is no doubt within the JHA Council about the critical attitude of the Dutch Parliament, because all the members of the Council have taken note of the position paper, which has also been provided directly by the Chamber to the Member States. Everyone has been able to see on several occasions, up to three times, that the Dutch government did not agree to the package of articles. On behalf of the Dutch Government, I have also indicated a number of times that this issue is extremely difficult in the Dutch Parliament. I therefore believe that this is clear in all possible ways. If the idea behind the motion is that there might be some confusion about the concerns of the Dutch Parliament with regard to a European Public Prosecutor's Office, the answer is that I do not think there is any such concern. That is without prejudice to the fact that if the Chamber instructed me to express that concern again, I will do so. That is why I leave the motion to the Chamber. Then I forget Mrs Helder's question. I confirm that the Dutch Parliament has the opportunity to reject and take part in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. That doesn't change the fact that it will be there, but without the Netherlands. I cannot give any information as to which Member States have taken a position. Mrs. Helder knows that never happens. However, I have indicated that there are several Member States that share the same view. At the end of the journey, we want to assess what the overall package looks like to be able to decide whether or not we agree to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u20	I would like to thank the Minister for his assessment of this motion. The idea behind the motion is not so much that perhaps at the moment there would be a lack of clarity among some of the Minister's colleagues, but that I would not like us as a Dutch Parliament to pass through the momentum and not express ourselves on this issue within the JHA Council for six months. That is why it is specifically included in the operative part that we call on the government to express the feelings of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u21	I would like to thank Mr van Oosten for that clarification. My judgment remains the same. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. If I am given the task of venting those concerns again, I will do so. That can be monitored over the internet, because it will be broadcast live in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u22	I thank the Minister very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-03-09-tweedekamer-9.u23	I propose that we vote on the motion this afternoon. That's what it was all about. The JHA Council will take place tomorrow. I note that this is agreed.
