ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen of the Socialist Party as the first speaker in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is not often that legal treatment is only on the schedule for 45 minutes, and yet we need to talk briefly about the matter. We do not have much to worry about this law, but a crucial change is taking place due to the disappearance of the Central Statistical Commission (CCS). In our view, this is an important body, which functions as a kind of advisory council for the Central Statistical Office (CBS). I get the strong impression that the only reason the cabinet has to come up with this proposal is that there should be fewer independent administrative bodies (zbos). It's possible. That's a very nice endeavor, too. At the same time, we are concerned about the independence of the Central Statistical Office, which may be affected by this. I feel strengthened in the view that an advisory body will remain necessary for the Central Statistical Office, because the cabinet itself states that the CBS can organise its own internal governance in the form of a non-statutory sounding board committee or financial audit committee. I also mentioned this in the explanatory statement of the amendment I tabled together with Mrs Mulder. This indicates that there seems to be a need for some consultation or any advisory body. That is why we had this law removed in the first instance and I, together with Mrs Mulder, tabled the amendment on item No. 6........................................................................................................................................................................... I cannot stress enough that we believe that the independence of the Central Statistical Office should be beyond any doubt. That is why I think it would be a good signal if the Minister embraced this amendment and saw bread in it. At the time, we chose not to give the Central Committee for Statistics this advisory function. Such a consultative body remains necessary even in the time we are facing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u3	I understand that we have to worry about the independence of the CBS. This has also been part of the study of the legislative amendment that is before us today. Has Mrs Gesthuizen taken note of the code of conduct and the CBS quality statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u4	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u5	That's step one. Thank you. In particular, the statement of quality makes it very clear how this independence is guaranteed. Is Mrs Gesthuizen not mistakenly afraid that independence is at stake? After all, there are all kinds of protocols within the CBS, which ensure that the CBS remains independent without such a governance structure. Does Mrs Gesthuizen agree with me that we need to have confidence in the protocols and systems that the CBS has for years and will continue to maintain in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u6	I would, of course, like to have the confidence that my VVD colleague has, but not for nothing emphasizes the Minister once again that the CBS can very well organise its own internal governance and that it is perfectly capable of creating a non-statutory sounding board or financial audit committee. I just mentioned that in my own term. This indicates that there is a need for consultation or an advisory body, for someone to monitor the case. For my group, it is preferable for it to be an organisation, a body, which is a little more distant and where not all responsibility lies with the same Director-General. That is, of course, the way in which the CBS will be organised if we give the Minister, and in this sense also the VVD Group, their meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u7	I am looking at the President because the first question was answered very easily. The entire audit structure of the CBS is organised externally. I'll give Mrs. Gesthuizen the following. If we want these kinds of Zbo integrations to succeed, we should not go back to organising a bogus Zbo, but then we should have confidence in the existing audit structure, which is external and independent. I think it guarantees the independence of the CBS for a long time. In fact, when these safeguards are not there, they will not pass through that audit and then we will be the first to be informed. Does this not provide enough certainty to prevent this type of amendment from being tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u8	No. I refer once again to the situation so far, with indeed existing supervision; I will not call it a supervisory board, but there was nevertheless an advisory council in the form of the CCS. I would argue in favour of maintaining such a structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u9	My question is about Mrs Gesthuizen's last point. Why is there an advisory board in its amendment and not a supervisory board?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u10	It is fair to say that, as far as I am concerned, it should have been a supervisory board, but I can imagine that a advisory board would be more politically feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u11	Do I understand correctly that Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Mulder have already done a great deal of work towards possible political sensitivities?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u12	If Mrs Mulder were here to represent a group of 76 seats, then you should see it more as a handout to the whole Chamber, including the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr President, if we can have that day again. The contribution of the CDA Group to the discussion of this bill is brief. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, after the written round, only one question remains at the heart of the matter. How will independent statistical production and the reliability of statistics be guaranteed? Does independent statistical production and the reliability of statistics require the legal anchoring of an external view? The minister says he doesn't think it's necessary. He felt that it would undermine a transparent division of responsibility. The CDA is convinced, together with the SP group, that this legal anchoring is necessary to ensure independent statistical production and the reliability of statistics. The CDA has therefore tabled an amendment together with the SP to deal with this. We propose that this be done by means of an advisory board. The CDA also has a question about the multiannual programme and the work programme. It is important to note that the bill ensures that the Minister for Economic Affairs cannot reject the multiannual programme and the work programme on substantive grounds. The Minister shall monitor whether the programmes adopted are in line with the financial and organisational conditions in force. What exactly is the scope for the Minister if the established programmes do not fit within those applicable conditions? In other words, is the Minister going to use his powers? And how is this made clear to the Members of Parliament so that we can carry out our monitoring task properly? We would like to receive an explanation from the Minister on this point. Finally, the CDA wonders whether the Minister also sees a role for Actal in overseeing the administrative burden imposed by the CBS on citizens and businesses. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u14	You got that right. It is even Mr Van Veen who wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u15	I have here an overview of all Zbo's in the Netherlands. I have a very simple question for Mrs Mulder. Does it consider that all these ZBOs should have a board of advice in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u16	When it comes to something as crucial as guaranteeing the independence of the agency that draws up the statistics, the CDA considers it important to have an independent advisory board. Of course, we are not doing very well when we are going to abolish ZBOs to abolish ZBOs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mrs Mulder speaks of 'abolishing Zbos to abolish Zbos', but that is not the point at all, and that is not what my question was about. It is a question of whether we have sufficient confidence that ZBOs will be able to fulfil their task without advice. Does Mrs Mulder believe that ZBOs can operate without advice in the current system? That was my question to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u18	We will then assess by Zbo who will be abolished whether it can work properly. In this case, we believe that the independence of the body that draws up the statistics must be guaranteed. As far as we are concerned, it is thus arranged in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. This is one of the rare times when the PVV Group agrees with the Minister. My group agrees with the proposal to abolish the Central Statistical Commission. I have just one question for the Minister. How does he guarantee the independence of the Central Statistical Office? I am very curious to hear the answer to that question, because there is an amendment from the SP and the CDA. Before I judge that amendment, I would like to hear the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. The Central Bureau of Statistics is very important. It is invaluable for politicians, journalists, scientists and society, although I believe that the CBS itself will not be able to calculate that invaluable value. I'm gonna try to put her in words. In a world where opinions are sometimes presented as facts, it is very important that we have an institute capable of producing independent facts and providing statistical information that is indisputable. The CBS is such an institution. We have to be very careful about that. That is why this debate is so important and I am glad that we are having it now. This debate is about lifting the CCS. That's the supervisory body that was also a Zbo. We fully follow the Minister's reasoning that the ZBO status of CCS may not be necessary and that it should be lifted. However, this will throw away a very large child with the bath water. It is a matter of different powers. Some of them are being invested elsewhere, as the Minister shows. For example, the ACM can test whether the CBS does not violate the Market and Government Act. I totally understand that. There are also other powers that it is good that they are or are invested elsewhere. On a number of other points, however, the question is whether the independence of the CBS is well secured, especially because we consider it important that it has sufficient stature. In Europe, the CBS is seen as an example institution. Why is that? Over the past year, the CBS has been peer-reviewed. This was done under the responsibility of the European Statistical Institute. Let me just quote from that. What do outsiders say about the CBS? Why is the importance of what the CCS did so great? Modern and comprehensive legislation is seen as a strong point of the Dutch situation, especially the statutory supervisory role of the Central Statistical Commission and its right of recommendation in the appointment of a new Director-General. According to the team that conducted the peer review, the fact that the CBS is a Zbo is of great importance for the independence in which it can do its work. In particular, it points to the role of CCS. We're gonna cancel that commission now. I agree with that, but the tasks that the CCS carried out should be better invested. Why is that? That look from the outside, those checks-and-balances, for example by a supervisory board or a recommendation board, are very important for an institute like the CBS. The SCP, some kind of evenknee, has something like that. They meet twice a year. An external council looks at the quality of the research, the methodology, the methodology. He's on the outside looking at what the CPB is doing. That's why the CPB is so appreciated. The same applies to the SCP and a number of other institutions that are very important to the Netherlands, for example for our debates and our decision-making. In that context, I would ask the Minister to reflect on the usefulness of these bodies at the SCP and the Central Planning Bureau. The PvdA wants to maintain the strength and exemplary role of the CBS in Europe. It wants to see, after the CCS has been abolished, a supervisory board which will continue to carry out a number, but certainly not all, of the important tasks I have read the amendment of the SP and the CDA and which is given competence. It's mainly about the presentation of a new dg, because we think it's really too narrow now. The way in which this point is now settled is seen as the strength of the current Dutch model. Furthermore, it is an external view of business operations. There's 150 million in the CBS. To our taste, that is not well invested. The Supervisory Board has a perfect role to play. It is also an opinion on the work programme, in particular on the information side. We live in a world of big data. The CBS contributes to an important data collection for our decision-making. Sometimes statistics have to be kept at a different level. The development of ICT is moving very quickly. It is precisely the fresh, external view of external scientists and perhaps people from the business community, who can sit on such a supervisory board, that is very important for the CBS. For example, we think that the provision of the dg may be too soft for advice from the advice board. It seems to us appropriate to include in the law that there will be a supervisory board and that these three powers will be governed by the administrative rules. That is less heavy than the CCS is now, but it guarantees the unique and very good position of the CBS, not only for us in the Netherlands, but also in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u21	Then let me put a dime in the bag. How does Mrs Vos view it if a board of opinion would have more or less the same tasks and possibilities as a supervisory board?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u22	A supervisory board has more stature than an advisory board. The opinion may be withdrawn. The Supervisory Board is a well-known model. Of course, I trust the CBS. I have no doubt that the CBS is curious about the advice of an advisory board, but I would like to start with a supervisory board, especially since this is a common governance model for such an important institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u23	I would ask Mrs Vos to take a very close look at the amendment I tabled together with Mrs Mulder. In my view, what Mrs Vos is advocating is covered here, and even more so when you look at all the parts of the amendment. I hope that, in the form we have chosen, it will be able to accept the approval of the Labour Party. I think it fits perfectly with what Mrs. Vos says. I would like to say very briefly that the advice board does not always have the same form and that in this case you might be able to come as far as advice is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u24	I have looked closely at the amendment, but there are a number of things in the list of powers that the Advisory Board should have that are duplicated. We're trying to work with the minister on making the government more efficient. I agree that some of the tasks currently carried out by CCS are also well invested elsewhere. I am particularly concerned with these three things, which are crucial for the PvdA to maintain its independent status.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u25	This raises new questions for me. I am curious to see which parts of the amendment Mrs Vos has problems with. I imagine she doesn't have the amendment with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u26	Points d, e and f.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u27	D, e and f. point (d) is "to ensure that the acquisition of data by the CBS is carried out in such a way as to minimise the administrative burden on undertakings and institutions resulting therefrom'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u28	That's what they do with Actal, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u29	Point (e) is "to ensure that the statistical work carried out by the CBS for third parties does not lead to competition with private providers (...)'...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u30	The ACM.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u31	... and point (f): "to monitor the implementation by the Director-General of the power to make data collection available for the purposes of statistical or scientific research." That's what you'd like to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u32	Yes, and those first three do overlap a bit with what I do think is important: the critical view of the information collection, the methodology and sometimes the way they bring it. I am particularly concerned about the outside view of the use of ICT, for example. The appointment of the dg is already in the amendment. In my view, this concerns the two paragraphs of Article I, as mentioned in the amendment. I'm fine with that. However, I am particularly concerned about efficient management. The CCS meets four times a year. Maybe this advisory board or supervisory board can do it in two or even in one go. I really want to think about making the business of the CBS more efficient. Then we must also look closely at the powers that we consider crucial to maintaining the status of the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u33	Clear. Thank you. Mr Van Veen has the floor. In the meantime, we will ensure that the Minister has access to this amendment so that he can follow the debate on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u34	Mr. Chairman. Society needs reliable statistical information. In the Netherlands this task has been assigned to the Central Bureau of Statistics. This is seen internationally as a professional organisation that plays a leading role not only in Europe but throughout the world. Regular audits by international organisations shall be carried out at the CBS. In particular, the IMF and the European Union have assessed the independence and quality of the data collection. These audits are carried out by independent experts from science and the statistical world. These audits have shown that the CBS uses registry data effectively and at a low cost and that it is celebrated for the innovation programme, cooperation with universities and access to and use of big data to compile statistics. That's something to be proud of. Even after the merger of two ZBOs, this offers more than enough certainty. Both the Quality Declaration and the Code of Conduct contain sufficient safeguards to continue to comply, for example, with the Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics of the United Nations. All the trust, then. I follow the CBS with great pleasure and more than regularly I use his data. The recently published booklet The Netherlands along the European measuring bar shows how independent the data can be, because there are also things in it that we as the Netherlands score a little less well than we sometimes think. In the publications of the Central Bureau of Statistics, I read today that the economies of the Caribbean islands have all grown, that the holidays spent by singles and non-singles are different and that young people with vwo are less likely to opt for an intermediate year. So I think it's as independent as what. They are very nice datasets, which are freely available for ordinary people, students, companies and politicians. We can do that with fewer ZBOs. We can do that with less administrative hustle and bustle. That availability will remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u35	I have another question for Mr Van Veen. He praises the position of the CBS in the European force field. Is he still able to respond to the recommendation of the European Institute of Statistics that the independence of the CBS is guaranteed precisely by the supervisory role of the CCS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u36	I read that phrase, too. It's on the CBS website. However, you can explain this in two ways. You can say: it is now a system that ensures independence. However, I have some difficulty in assuming that, if we were to lift that, independence would be removed immediately. No, the funny thing is that a future audit will show whether this change has led to data being obtained and disseminated in a less independent way. So I do not share the fear of those who say directly: we are going to change something and that will make it worse. There are sufficient opportunities to ensure quality and thus independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u37	The PvdA is not afraid of anything. However, we want to preserve the good; in that we are very conservative. I would like to ask Mr Van Veen a few more questions on a very specific point he mentioned in relation to the peer review, namely: the strength is that such an external committee, in this case the CCS, may appoint the new dg. It's very thin now. One of the strong points is that such an external committee can present a new dg for the CBS, which has a very important role to play in the provision of information in the Netherlands and, moreover, in Europe. What does Mr Van Veen say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u38	That doesn't depend at all on people for me. That depends on an organization. The same report praises the professional quality of this organisation, so I am absolutely not afraid of that. I think that, with the new structure and the way in which it is completed, it will be soon enough to see whether Mrs Fox's concerns are the truth and we need to intervene. But I do not want to intervene now on something that we can all see is that independence is probably not going to be a problem, nor is it going to be the quality of the data to be disseminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u39	Could I ask Mr Van Veen what factual justification he has, apart from his feeling and his confidence that it will all work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u40	In my interruption I asked if Mrs Gesthuizen was aware of the quality statement. That's a quality statement. It will eventually also be audited by external parties. If you do not work according to this statement of quality, you will not be able to go through the audit. And at the moment when the audit is not passed, we will return to the Chamber and address the Minister to the fact that they do not comply with their own procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u41	Paper is always very patient and of course you can write anything down, but I'm asking for the justification. What facts and experiences does Mr Van Veen have to support what he hopes for and which makes him say he has every confidence in it? I'm so excited about that. In fact, I agree with Mrs Vos............................................................................................................................................................................................ We now have a system that works well and which Mr Van Veen is very pleased with. We have a winning team and that has to be changed from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u42	In my view, these are two different questions. Firstly, I try to explain once again that the quality statement and the way in which it is operated are audited by several bodies. That could be the IMF or the European Union. When they find that there is no work in accordance with the procedures that are in place, we will be told that this happens several times a year, and we will be told that we do not follow our own procedures. Do I have faith in the procedures? Yes, I do, because these procedures lead us to get these kind of fantastic reports, which I certainly did not understand was that a majority of the Chamber did not find itself independent or wrongly established.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr Van Veen is absolutely convinced that we will get that information if it goes wrong, but how can Mr Van Veen be so sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u44	The way in which communication is now being communicated is particularly transparent. I have just indicated in the debate with Mrs Vos that everything that is available is actually being published on the CBS website, including this type of audit report. And if these audit reports are no longer published, of course we have a story with each other. And even then, this organisation does not comply with its own quality statement. So I'm not worried about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u45	In what way would the Minister have to supervise this course of action? The CDA is genuinely concerned about the independence of statistical production, and I see someone here who fully believes that it is going to be 100% good. On what condition, exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u46	On the condition that the quality remains as it is today. The change in the structure also transfers certain responsibilities to both the DG and the Minister. I therefore believe that the Minister is at the point of ensuring that the quality is guaranteed and that the procedures we have agreed on internationally are adhered to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u47	This brings to an end the first term of office. I see the Minister is able to respond immediately. I call the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman. Do you mind if I take a misunderstanding first? That is the misunderstanding that the purpose of this bill is to get fewer ZBOs. At the moment there are two ZBOs at the Central Bureau of Statistics. One is the Director-General and the other is the CCS, the committee which is now being discussed in particular by the spokesmen. So there are two ZBOs at the moment, but the purpose of this bill is not to bring that down to one. The goal is no less ZBOs. The aim is to clarify the steering relationship between the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Director-General of the CBS. At the moment that relationship is less clear because there is something else between them, namely a separate Zbo that can do things. So I can't do things the Zbo can do. What I can't do, the Chamber can't address me. The cabinet considers it important that a minister should address what is being done in the public sphere. In doing so, we think it is important to maintain the independence of the Central Statistical Office. I'll get right on that. However, we also consider it important to clarify the steering relationship between the Director-General of the Central Statistical Office and the Minister. Once there's a ZBO in there, it's less clear. In addition, there will be fewer stories for the Chamber from the Minister, who will no longer be responsible for a number of things. That is why this bill has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u49	In the written round of questions, we asked what the role of the Chamber was. I think I remember that the Minister's answer was that there was no role for the Chamber. Do I understand correctly that the Minister is saying that he is going to clarify that steering relationship and that this means that the Chamber can intervene occasionally if she feels that the CBS is using scientifically wrong methods or needs to collect other datasets?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u50	I do not want to go into these examples now, because I do not think I have anything to say about the methods that are being applied and about what is going on around them. This must lie within the framework of the independence of the Director-General of the CBS itself. Perhaps Mrs Vos would like to repeat her other point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u51	The Minister has given us a table on what the role of the Chamber is. In the answers, the Minister said that there is no role for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u52	Thanks, I remember. There is no direct role for the Chamber other than the most important role of the Chamber, namely to control the cabinet and to control me as a minister. If I'm qualified for anything, I have to do these things right. The Chamber needs to know what I'm doing. The Chamber can have an opinion on this, correct me and, at worst, give up confidence in me. Where I am competent, the Chamber has also, indirectly, great powers. If I do not have the authority to do anything, I shall be able to do so in a moment, so the Chamber has nothing to say, because if I cannot do so, the Chamber cannot control me on that point, because I do not have any responsibility on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u53	So the Minister says that with this bill, the Chamber can monitor him even more closely with regard to his powers towards the CBS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u54	Exactly. That is the purpose of this bill. We want to make clear what is needed for the independence of the Director-General of the CBS, so that he can do his work with his organisation in independence. In addition, there is the Minister whose legal role follows from the Framework Act independent administrative bodies and the Act on the Central Bureau of Statistics. That is where the Minister's powers lie. These are slightly extended with this bill. Where it is extended for the Minister, more possibilities are created for the Chamber to control the Minister. This concerns specifically the multiannual programme and the work programme. This legislative proposal establishes the multiannual programme and the work programme by the Minister. That is what the Chamber can address me to. The Chamber can't do that now because it's with a separate Zbo. The Chamber can't address me to something I'm not responsible for. In this way, the position of the Chamber is indirectly strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u55	As a Chamber, therefore, we will have the multiannual programme and work programme of the CBS. So we can have a debate on that. The Chamber is therefore going to interfere with the data collection and statistical information of the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u56	That's not what I said. I have said that, if I adopt the multiannual programme and the work programme, I shall be open to discussion by the Chamber, just as the Chamber can now appeal to me on the budget and on the annual accounts. I have to establish the budget and the annual accounts of the CBS. The Chamber can appeal to me on what I do with it. If I have to adopt the work programme and the multiannual programme, the Chamber can also appeal to me. However, what is being removed from me and placed with an independent administrative body cannot be addressed to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u57	I'm trying to understand what "speaking" is literally going to mean. If we do not agree with what the CBS is going to do, whatever the composition of the Chamber is, does that mean "to address"? What does this mean? What can we say to the Minister if we do not agree with the work programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u58	The current legislative proposal provides that if the multiannual programme and the work programme are not in line with the financial frameworks in particular, I will not be able to adopt them. In practice this does not occur, because then there will be consultation with the Central Statistical Office, where I would like to point out the points where I do not think there is an agreement between the two. Then the dg of the CBS will be able to adapt it and I can then agree to it. If, in the end, there is something that, in this case, is contrary to the budgetary framework, then I can abstain from approving it. Then I'll make what's going on clear to the Chamber. Then the Chamber will have the opportunity to look at it, to have an opinion on it and to make it known to me. The Chamber does not have these possibilities if the power lies with a Zbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u59	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u60	This means that it is really just about whether it fits into the budgets. The CCS really thought along on the work programme. For example, CCS was concerned with methodological qualities and space statistics which are not mandatory at European level. Those functions are actually going to expire, because the Minister is not going to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u61	Mr President, with your permission, I would like to go into that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u62	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u63	I have now indicated the purpose of the bill. I agree with Mrs Vos and in fact all the spokesmen have said that it is important for the Central Statistical Office to be independent. The DG of the CBS thus remains an independent administrative body. This means that it is not hierarchical or administratively subordinate to the Minister. So the dg has its own strong position. This strong position is also guaranteed by the framework law independent administrative bodies. In the case of the CBS, this is guaranteed in two other respects. One point is that the Central Statistical Office remains a separate legal entity. The staff of the Central Bureau of Statistics are therefore not employed by the government. I need to make this more clear: they do not fall under the administration of me as minister, but are employed by a separate legal personality. The second point to guarantee the independence of the Central Statistical Office is to define the powers of all those involved, the tasks and independence in a separate Law on the Central Statistical Office and thereby guarantee them. The Director-General of the Central Statistical Office thus determines the methods of investigation and the method of publication. So that's not what I'm dealing with at all. I cannot deal with this either, because that is what the Director-General of the CBS is doing now and will continue to do in the future. I can also say something about this from practice. I have worked intensively with the Central Bureau of Statistics for five years as Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and as Minister for Economic Affairs. I once had a discussion with the CBS about something similar. The point was that I saw that the ministries used different unemployment rates from the Central Planning Office and from the Central Statistical Office. I then asked the ministries, the Central Bureau of Statistics and the Central Planning Bureau what caused it. The reason was that different definitions were used for when you work and when you don't work. This involved the number of hours per week worked or not. I then suggested to them that we should talk about this together and see if it might be possible to come to the conclusion that a single definition had to be used. They did draw that conclusion together at the time. From that point on, there was also more clarity about unemployment rates. As a result, it was better for us to let go of policy on that. That's all I've been through there. As prime minister, I am not concerned with the method of investigation and the way in which it is published. I am at a distance, but I do have a certain responsibility, as far as it is given to me in the framework law independent administrative bodies and in the Law on the Central Bureau of Statistics. I can draw up general policy rules, but I cannot in any way interfere with specific cases, with research methods or with the means of publishing. I can now approve and fix the budget and the account. If I do the same thing with the multiannual programme and the work programme, then the situation will arise as I have just outlined for Mrs Vos. I have already indicated that I can abstain if that work programme and that multiannual programme are in breach of the financial framework. I can add that if such a programme were to run counter to the organisational framework we have created, with the various roles of the dg CBS and the minister, I would not be able to approve it. Those are the only ways for me to do that. For the rest, the Director-General of the Central Statistical Office is competent. I believe that this has created a very clear situation, with the optimum independence of the Central Statistical Office, which remains a legal entity. The Director-General shall remain a separate independent administrative body. The framework law on independent administrative bodies continues to provide guarantees. The separate Act on the Central Bureau of Statistics continues to provide guarantees. I can say that in recent years it has been shown in practice that the ministers are also acting in this direction. If that were not the case, I believe that they would also be corrected by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u64	We will certainly not be too reluctant about this. If we caught a minister on such a behavior, we as MPs would, of course, go straight to the interrupting microphone on our backs. My question is about something I don't quite get out of. The minister says he's not the one who can do anything about the independence of the CBS. That's not his jurisdiction at all. He's not going anywhere. However, I can see from the Minister's words that he finds it difficult that an amendment has been tabled by part of the Chamber, which would involve a task for an advisory body, because that would make the supervision diffuse. I don't understand. If the Minister clearly says that he has nothing to do with that independence, that it is specific to the CBS, that he remains far from it, that this is not his business, how can it be difficult if there is an advisory body at the CBS that has to monitor that independence? That does not affect the Minister with his ministerial responsibility at all, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u65	I have the amendment tabled by Mrs Gesthuizen and Mrs Mulder before me. The Director-General shall submit the work programme for adoption to the Advisory Board in Section IV at 3a. This means that the Director-General shall submit the work programme to the Advisory Board, which shall adopt it. The same applies to the multiannual programme. This means that an administrative act is being carried out, namely the establishment of a work programme and a multiannual programme of the Central Statistical Office. That's an administrative act. There is therefore a body that carries out that administrative act. This means that the amendment is contrary to the legislative proposal and is therefore destructive. This is also contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber itself. Under the Rules of Procedure of the Court, no amendments contrary to the scope of a legislative proposal are considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u66	I don't think that was an answer to my question. My question was very clear. The minister says it's going to be diffused. If that is how the Chamber is going to organise this, this is not in line with its responsibilities as Minister. According to the Minister, these things might cross over. I can see that from the other words of the Minister, Mr Delors, that he really has nothing to do with the independence of the CBS. He's gotta stay away from that. That part of my question has not been answered. The Minister is actually asking a bit of a rhetorical question. He says that he does not understand what we are doing with the amendment. We are creating a new Zbo, but according to the Minister that can never be the intention. I am speaking for my group in the Chamber, but I assume that this also applies to the CDA Group, if I have understood Mrs Mulder correctly, and I very much want there to be good checks-and-balances for something as important as the independence and completeness of the Central Statistical Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u67	What is proposed in the bill is not diffuse. The Director-General for the Central Statistical Office is an independent administrative body. He does his work based on the framework law independent administrative bodies and the Law on the Central Bureau of Statistics. Its organisation shall have a separate legal personality. The relationship with the Minister is perfectly clear. The Minister has powers in terms of the budget, the account, the organisational and financial framework and general policy rules. However, the Minister must not interfere with any individual case. He must not interfere with the methods or with the publicity about the results of applying those methods. We have made the matter crystal clear. If you change that by inserting an independent administrative body which will adopt the work programme and the multi-annual programme, then you will make the matter fuzzy. That's my problem with this. With the adoption of the multiannual programme and the work programme by a body, you make that body an independent administrative body. That body therefore takes administrative decisions independently. That body is independent because there is no hierarchical relationship between me and this body that has to decide on the work programme and the multiannual programme. So that organ is independent. I can't replace that body. If the amendment is adopted, the body has its own powers under the law. You're using that to make things diffuse. In addition, the amendment contradicts the scope of the legislative proposal. That is why I believe it should be regarded as a destructive amendment. I shall now turn to the importance of advising the Director-General of the Central Statistical Office. I agree with the spokesmen that the importance of this advice is great. I'm so excited to get into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u68	The qualification "destructive amendment" is a political qualification. It is, of course, up to the Chamber to decide whether an amendment is admissible. The Minister may state that he considers an amendment to be contrary to the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u69	After colleague Gesthuizen I make another attempt. The Minister is therefore concerned with the financial and organisational conditions. The intention of the CDA, I think, is that there should be a consultative board for the substantive test and that the Minister should not interfere. Then where do these things bite each other, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u70	First of all, it bites the provision in the amendment that the Director-General must submit the work programme and also the multiannual programme for the adoption of the opinion to the Board. An administrative decision is then taken by a body which is not subordinate to me and which is therefore an independent administrative body. This makes the case diffuse, and that is contrary to the spirit of the bill. That's where it bites.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u71	The Minister states in the bill that he is only dealing with financial and organisational conditions. Then why is this still such a big problem? Do you want to guarantee the independence of the work that the CBS does for us here in the Netherlands? As Mrs Vos pointed out, the CBS is highly regarded internationally. That's the quality the CDA would like to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u72	This bill strengthens it. This independence of the Director-General of the CBS is absolutely maintained. It's not gonna be any less. What the Minister does becomes crystal clear to the Chamber. The Minister shall be responsible for the approval of the budget, the accounts, the work programme and the multiannual programme. He can only assess the latter two on organisational and financial aspects. By doing so, you have achieved that the Director-General of the CBS is independent, but also that everything that is being supervised is done by the Minister, so that he can also be held accountable to the Chamber. This is how you strengthen the position of the Chamber. I'm convinced of two things. First of all, I think that the independence of the CBS is of the utmost importance and that we are doing it in full justice. The second thing I am convinced of is that it is very important for the Director-General of the CBS to be consulted. So I will go into that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u73	The funny thing is that many institutes of equal size do have a board of advice or a supervisory board, such as DNB and the CPB. I asked you to do that. The current Director-General of the CBS is a member of the Council of Nesteliers of the Royal Marechaussee, but he is also a member of the Advisory Board of an NWO programme, member of the Supervisory Board of the NWO National Initiative Brain & Cognition, member of the Board of ICTU, member of the Academy of Technology & Innovation and director of the Royal Holland Society of Sciences. The director of the CBS therefore advises a lot of secondary institutes that are also involved in scientific research. Why should this particular Director-General not need those external eyes himself? That's a really big question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u74	I think he needs it. I therefore agree with Mrs Vos and the Director-General of the CBS agrees with her. At the moment there are already six advisory councils at the CBS. The Director-General looks at what he is dealing with, what he is doing, where the expertise lies, where he has something to gain from knowledge and involvement. He has created separate advisory councils for each group. I think he should also have a separate advice board, and that is what he thinks. That's why we're not taking the CCS budget away from the CBS either. The CBS simply keeps the budget of, I believe, €90,000 per year at its disposal. The Director-General of the CBS intends to set up an Advisory Board for this purpose. I agree that's what he's gonna do. I think it's excellent. The independence of the CBS is thus already guaranteed in several ways, as I have just explained, but I do think it is very important, in addition, to properly fill in the advisory function mentioned by Mrs Vos. I therefore believe that the six different Advisory Councils should be maintained and that a new Advisory Council should be set up. I also think that this advisory board is important for the Director-General of the CBS, just as such advisory boards are important for the Central Planning Bureau and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. In my opinion, there is an equal interest in the CBS.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u75	Materially we all agree that this dg needs an external council of advice; he himself agrees with that. I've also heard very good sounds about this dg. We are therefore in complete agreement and the amendment that lays down this, as is customary for many other institutions, would be destructive. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u76	We can agree on a material basis, but then there is no need to re-form it by means of an amendment. I am in favour of coming to you with appropriate legislative proposals. I am convinced that I have submitted an appropriate legislative proposal to you here. I will explain what remains, what is added and what, as far as I am concerned, can also be done on the advice board. And we can do all that without that amendment. This amendment recreates an independent administrative body and removes an important competence from the Minister. I think that's what makes the steering relationship cloudy, which we shouldn't have. So we can very well agree on the basis of that bill. If it is Mrs Vos' statement that we need this amendment to agree, I cannot agree with her. I do agree with her on the issue of independence and the importance of advice. The amendment states, in addition to the right of establishment I have just mentioned, for example, Mrs Vos herself referred to the fact that the work should be carried out by the advisory board for which the ACM is already responsible. Other work should be done by the Advisory Board for which the Personal Data Authority is already responsible. So that also has no added value. I think it would be much better for the Director-General of the CBS to draw up that advisory board and then to ensure that administrative regulations also regulate the things that are important for that advisory board to function properly. I say to Mrs Vos that I also have no objection to the law laying down that such advice should be provided. But that is something that does not fit in with the policy that this cabinet set out at the beginning. In the beginning, the cabinet looked at the situation with regard to the Zbo's. This was also discussed in the negotiations on the coalition agreement. At that time, a policy was established that means that such a council of advice is only legally established if there is a particular reason for that. I do not think there is that particular reason in this case. I have no objection in principle to it, but there is no particular reason for it and also in view of the intention of the Director-General of the CBS to set up such an advisory board and my response to that intention I do not think that it is necessary to legally anchor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u77	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u78	First of all, let's say there's a board of advice, which doesn't make it any clearer for me as a Member of Parliament. It is a very common figure. Secondly, in substance, the Minister still cannot explain to me why this amendment is destructive if we all agree in substance that such advice should be given. Thirdly, if the Minister explains that this would be the agreement in the government agreement, I would point out that there is a serious reason to do so. It's not that complicated and it's certainly not destructive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u79	Can I try to put it right one more time? If the Director-General of the CBS is to submit a multiannual programme and a work programme for adoption to a board of opinions, this means that an administrative decision must be taken, in this case by a board of opinions which is not subordinate to me, with which I have no hierarchical relationship. It then means that the board of opinion takes such a decision as an independent administrative body. So you're an organ, you make an independent administrative decision, and that makes you an independent administrative body. This amendment makes this advisory board an independent administrative body. So that clouds the proportions. It is clear that if everything is with the director-general of the CBS and the minister, that minister can be addressed by the Chamber on everything he does. It is much less clear if you have a separate independent administrative body between them. Why is it destructive? Because this legislative proposal requires clarification of the steering relationship, the abolition of an independent administrative body. This amendment sets up a new advisory board in the form of a new independent administrative body. So that clouds the case. Because, as Mrs Vos said, there is no difference of opinion on the substance of this independence and on the advice, it would be a great pity if such an amendment were to create this confusion. So let's be happy about what we agree on and let's make the bill law without this blurryness.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u80	I would like to give Mrs Gesthuizen some room on this point because I feel that this is a very important subject in the debate and that there is a need for the Chamber to discuss it further with the Minister, but I would ask Members to try to come to a conclusion on this point slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u81	Mr. Chairman. I promise this is my last interruption. I am pleased to hear that the Minister also attaches such great importance to the independence of the Central Statistical Office and to the work it does, because that is at least a major common denominator in the Chamber. That's good. I hope that all future leaders in Economic Affairs will feel exactly the same. Still, I'm attached to the checks-and-balances. I put the following question to the Minister as he says so easily: you are creating a new independent administrative body. Is the Supervisory Board of the Financial Markets Authority therefore an independent administrative body in the eyes of the Minister, now that it ensures that the management of the AFM does what it has to do? After all, the AFM's Supervisory Board approves matters such as the annual plan, the budget, the annual accounts and the major administrative decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u82	I didn't prepare for that. I should look at the exact situation there, and I can draw a conclusion from that. I have now prepared myself on the subject of Central Bureau of Statistics. With this legislative proposal, we will abolish one independent administrative body. However, this amendment sets up a new independent administrative body. My argument is that this is contrary to the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u83	I understand all that, but the Minister is very precise about this. I have to tell you, I just picked up the AFM data. The Minister of Finance is responsible for this. I am concerned with the Minister's statement: if you set this up, you will create a new independent administrative body. I don't think that's the case. There are other major institutions that have supervisory boards or councils of advice. In those cases, it's not called "a separate Zbo" either, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u84	I have indicated the situation at the CBS. I have said that independence is not in question, that the steering relationship must be clear, that this legislative proposal maintains and strengthens independence and that the steering relationship is clarified. I also said that the amendment does some of the things that the ACM and the Personal Data Authority are already doing. Moreover, it de facto creates a new independent administrative body for the reason I have just indicated. I can't make it prettier than that. I am pleased that the Chamber and I have substantive agreement on the content of the bill. However, that does not apply to the amendment. The amendment is, in my opinion, destructive. That's why I advise against it. Let me make one more comment about checks-and-balances. Checks-and-balances are there because it is legally regulated that this is a very important institute, the CBS, a legal personality and that the Director-General is an independent administrative body, because there is a separate law on the CBS and because the Framework Act applies autonomous administrative bodies to the Director-General. That's how you made things clear. On the other side of the balance sheet is the Minister, who is not allowed to do a number of things and a number of things. For all the things he's allowed to do, he's open to the Chamber. In the meantime, if you have an independent administrative body that can also do things, but cannot be addressed by the Chamber and the Minister cannot answer for them, you have fewer checks-and-balances. The CBS sometimes needs advice and will like to commit people to whom things are presented and to whom the CBS listens. That is already happening with the six councils that are already there. There is therefore also a separate advisory board. This is similar, as Mrs Vos said, to what we have talked about in relation to other institutions. I'll see if there's any points of the spokesmen I've left. Mrs Mulder asked whether, if I did not agree with the multiannual programme and the work programme, the Chamber would understand this. It seems to me that this must be done. The Minister has never agreed to such a thing. If so, the Minister will first try to reach agreement with the Director-General of the CBS in this case. If that does not work, then approval must be withheld. In these cases, I think it is self-evident that the Chamber should be informed so that it can have an opinion on this too. Mrs. Mulder asked about the role for Actal. There is no direct role for Actal as regards the Central Statistical Office. The minister can talk to Actal about that. That's something I'll certainly do. If I think it has added value to seek advice from Actal on activities of the CBS, I will certainly not fail to do so. Mrs Klever asked a question about guaranteeing independence. I have gone into this in detail. I hope that I have been able to convince her that this independence is guaranteed without any restraint, by me and also by the legal arrangements that are in place for it. I have dealt with Mrs Vos's contribution. To what Mr Van Veen has said, I have been able to respond to the various points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u85	I will refrain from a second-term contribution. I've had enough of an exchange of views with the Minister. We are likely to amend the amendment tabled by myself and Mrs Mulder. We will ensure that the Chamber receives it this week. The Minister also receives it, requesting a written reply to it. If that does not happen before next Tuesday, we will ask for a one-week postponement of the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u86	That seems to me to be a procedurally clear proposal on your part. I note that this is supported. I note that there is no need for a second term, but Mrs Mulder has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u87	I thank the Minister for replying on Actal. Thank you also for the commitment to inform the Chamber when the Minister would reject the programme. I also agree with what Mrs Gesthuizen said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-01-12-tweedekamer-11.u88	That is the end of this debate. I thank the Minister for Economic Affairs for his input and for being a guest in the House of Representatives. He's not leaving yet, because there's gonna be another debate later.
