ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u1	I welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment and the people in the public gallery and I am the first to give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. A lot goes wrong with the use of foreign workers. They are not always aware of what their rights are or dare not stand up for them, because the only thing that results is sometimes a one-way ticket to Warsaw. The result: people keep their mouths shut and are underpaid or even exploited. The result is unfair competition against companies that comply with the rules and so-called "too expensive" Dutch workers who are being fired or are no longer in business. For you two Poles, three Bulgarians or four Romanians. Wrong employers and shady employment agencies play and turn people who are actually each other's colleagues against each other. The Labour Party is therefore firmly committed to putting an end to bogus constructions and all kinds of tricks and to tackling wrong employers and shady employment agencies. And with success, because this cabinet period is fighting underpayment, unfair competition and repression more firmly on the political agenda than ever before, leading, among other things, to the entry into force of the Law on Fake Constructions, the extension of inspection capacity and the soon to be adopted by this Chamber Chain Liability Act in Transport. That will end there too, looking the other way and shrugging the shoulders. Big boys, clients like Ikea and Shell, can no longer wash their hands in innocence in the event of abuses. They will then be able to see the bill for themselves. Our commitment also extends in a European context. Thanks to Dutch pressure, a Enforcement Directive was introduced, which has now been transposed into Dutch law. There is now a proposal to tighten up the so-called Detaching Directive. Minister Asscher of Social Affairs and Employment took the initiative by encouraging the European Commission to move with nine other Member States by letter of fire. Such a letter is now also specific to the transport sector. That letter was not signed by ten countries, but by eight countries, and the Netherlands was not the initiator. What am I saying? The Netherlands didn't even sign that letter. I ask the Minister how that is possible. Does she not think that tackling underpayment, unfair competition and repression is as important as her PvdA colleague in the cabinet and the majority of the Chamber? Does she have the impression that there are no problems in the transport sector in this respect? Why isn't the signature of the Netherlands under that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I do not see Mr Christmas very often, but when he invites me, he always has the same story: why does Mr Asscher do something that Mrs Schultz does not? Let me say first of all that the fight against social dumping is as important to me as it is to my colleague, Mr Asscher. We're one cabinet and we're in the same game. We also encouraged the Commission in 2014 as one of the first to send a letter to ensure that the road package presented in September will include measures to combat social dumping. Now there is an initiative by eight countries to send a letter to the Commission in the run-up to the road package, which contains a few points in which we can agree, but also a few points in which we cannot agree, and that is why our signature is not included in this letter. We were also told that we were not in favour of this. To give an example, we are not in favour of a ban on letting drivers sleep in the cabin. We have informed the Chamber that we believe that the main aim of this proposal by France is to prevent Eastern European drivers. We don't want that. We want a level playing field and the market to be fair. We want to ensure that everyone is treated in a good way. We do not want any measures to prevent specific groups. The same goes for another point that is in here, about the light vehicles. This should be subject to authorisation. It has not yet been finalized, but it is well known that we in the Netherlands are still discussing whether this is the right solution to the problem. Do you have to demand authorisation for all vehicles? Does that treat people better or not? The question is whether it is. Probably not even. Probably the intention is simply to push certain groups out of the market and protect the market. I would just like to mention two examples from the letter that we do not agree with. We are therefore strongly in favour of combating social dumping, and I shall go along with my colleague from SZW, but here there are points that we find too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u4	Exploitation, unfair competition and displacement are common in several sectors, but road transport is in the top three. Poland constructions, Cyprus routes, people who spend weeks and sometimes months banging in their trucks with all the hassle of that, for example, in parking spaces and through a PO Box company hired Philippines: you will find it all in the transport sector. It seems like the Minister is saying that she is okay with that. Soon the House of Representatives will even organise a hearing specifically about the abuses in the transport sector. The Minister says that she is in the competition in the same way as her colleague for Social Affairs and Employment, but that she cannot endorse the letter sent by eight fellow countries on a number of points. What serious action can we expect from the Minister at EU level to get other points, which the cabinet apparently supports and which she also considers important in dealing with exploitation, unfair competition and repression? Can I expect this Minister to be at the forefront of these matters, just like her colleague from Social Affairs and Employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u5	That I'd be okay with people camping in their cabin for months, really... I don't even want to deny that here. It's just crazy to say that. Like you and everyone here, I attach great importance to good and decent working conditions for people, whether they come from Romania, Bulgaria or the Netherlands. That's very important to me. At the same time, I believe that we should not just look at more and more rules. First of all, we must ensure that the rules we have are properly applied and harmonised. What am I going to do in the coming period? At the moment there are consultations ahead of the road package. Some we have already filled out, others we are working on. I can agree with a number of colleagues' points, for example the strengthening and harmonization of controls. Why are you treated differently at driving and rest periods in the Netherlands than in France, when you are arrested? I would also like to mention the fight against the activities of these postal bus companies, something that SZW's colleague is working hard to do. You just mentioned the law on chain liability for collective wage agreements. I think it's here on Thursday. There'll be more laws soon. We shall therefore support many of these points. For me, it is particularly important that we apply everything we do with each other, and not in one country, but not in another.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u6	Finally. I know the Minister doesn't like that I do occasionally, but I will do it a third time: the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment recently promised the Chamber an additional set of national measures to deal with the underpayment of foreign colleagues, which has caused Dutch colleagues to lose their jobs. He has also said that he wants to look at extending his inspection service. The minister just said she's in the same game. It is not so much about more rules as about enforcement. Can we therefore expect it to introduce additional national measures for the transport sector? Is she prepared to give serious thought to extending her inspection as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u7	I always like to meet Mr. Christmas! He shouldn't think that's not the case. I'm just looking at the reasonrant, recognizing something and sharing it again. Anyway... I know that my colleague is working on additional measures. We ourselves also have a route with the inspection and with our own committee for I and M running. In doing so, we look at the tasks to be carried out and at what issues we should focus more or less on. In the recent past, we have focused a little more on controls in the transport sector and, above all, we have started to do more targeted risk controls. I've been with you myself. You just have a better chance of finding something with a Bulgarian truck than with a Dutch one, except when you see those straps over the plates, because then you also know it's not okay. So we have already set up specific actions to monitor abuses in the transport sector. I'm not just gonna get extra staff for the inspection. I will have that discussion with the Chamber when we discuss the overall picture of the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u8	We can see here that the PvdA is asking questions to its own cabinet and actually having one big sham discussion. The real sham is the opening-up of our labour market to all those cheap Eastern and Southern European workers, who compete our own Dutch workers away to the minimum wage and sometimes even below. Let's have the real discussion. When will the cabinet stand up for Dutch labour? When does it ensure that Dutch jobs are for Dutch workers? And when will it stop unbridled admission of cheap foreign labour to our labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u9	I am also replying on behalf of my colleague from SZW, who is working on a package to protect the Dutch workers. The discussions are about what one does and does not allow in one's own country to compete with people from low-wage countries. He's working on that right now, and that package will come to the Chamber. Reasoning from my own portfolio, I do not think that we should close this country to lorry drivers from other countries. Nor will that be your consideration, because the other way around our people want to bring goods to other countries. Ultimately, there must be free movement of persons and goods, but we must ensure that this is done in a fair environment, with fair conditions and a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u10	This was a remarkable play. One would almost think that Mr Kerstens had been deployed, because Minister Asscher had lost the debate in the cabinet. When you hear this, you wonder why the Labour Party voted against the SP and D66 amendments for more capacity in the Labour Inspectorate. The Minister has often been addressed at the Labour Inspectorate. Does the Commission intend to consult the SZW Minister on how to increase the intensity of the labour inspection on this issue? Would she like to look again at whether more capacity is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u11	Before I give the floor to the Minister: Mr Kerstens felt addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u12	I don't want to provoke a whole discussion. However, I would remind Mr Van Weyenberg, who apparently forgot to do so, that he tabled a motion at last year's budget debate (34300-XV, No. 44) of the Labour Party co-signed to allocate EUR 5 million for additional labour inspectors. Together with other parties, we have got the Minister to think about enlargement. That seems very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u14	No, Mr Van Weyenberg. Otherwise Mr Kerstens will have to react to that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u15	I did indeed vote in favour of this motion, but we also had an amendment to make much more money available in structural terms. I think it is nice that, if Mr Kerstens mentions one half, he also mentions the other half.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u16	This is an oral question, not a mutual debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u17	I like it. I have the feeling that I have now been invited to a completely different committee. It's always exciting when your field of vision expands a little. I am asked if I would urge the Minister of SZW to extend the labour inspectorate, but I am dealing with the ILT. I have also experienced Mr Kerstens' question in such a way that we monitor the inspections at the ILT, which is trying to prevent abuses in the transport sector. I just want to leave the discussion about the Labour Inspectorate to the colleague. The Chamber can always appeal to him. I understand that this has already happened in the past with or without supported motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u18	Let's talk about the drivers in particular, rather than the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of the biting of Everyone who comes to parking lots along a highway abroad sees the misery every weekend. This Minister is responsible for the inspection to be carried out. Last weekend and next weekend again, everywhere you see the symptoms of exploitation. I ask the Minister to have her inspection check that every weekend. It's forbidden to sleep in your truck there. So, Minister, do I see the inspectors at that parking lot near me this weekend?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr Ulenbelt rightly referred the discussion back to the drivers. In the end, it's about the people and what we can do for them. The inspection is there seven days a week. On weekends and on weekdays, she checks for all kinds of specific offences. By the way, people are allowed to spend the weekend in the truck; this is allowed in the Netherlands. We believe that lorries are sufficiently equipped. My concern is much sooner if there are enough protected places where they can go and if there are enough facilities to keep a decent weekend like this. There are also many drivers who want to stay with the car, for safety reasons among others: they are afraid that their stuff will be stolen. So we're here, seven days a week. One can stay in the truck for a certain period of time, no longer. If they do, they'll intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u20	Drivers do indeed earn the same wage for the same work in the same place. The point is that this needs to be tackled at international level. I think that would be very good, too. In the Benelux Parliament we discussed that precisely for the purposes of cross-border data sharing across different countries, I refer to taxes, inspection data and data on social affairs as an integral approach to this problem. Otherwise, they'll leave on the left or on the right. So what about the international exchange of data on such matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u21	On that question, I must remain guilty of the answer. Because I don't know, I don't have that ready. The inspections as we know them are very specific in nature. For example, there are international rules on driving and rest periods, how to maintain them and what information you need to have for them. You can have it. But you now mention a lot of things, including taxes and other things. I think there's only an integrated approach when the company's in sight because of really bigger violations. That is not the case with every inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-04-tweedekamer-2.u22	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP, who asks a question to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
