ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u1	Tonight we'll keep the first term of the Chamber. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, as well as Members, those present in the public gallery and those following this debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Gambling is basically inherent in human nature, Edmund Burke spoke in a speech to the British House of Commons in 1780. In relationships, in business, on the stock exchange and certainly in politics is gambled almost daily. Gambling is speculating on a particular outcome that is pleasing to you. Gambling is perhaps the illusion of putting fate and time at your fingertips for a moment. Let's face it, who doesn't want to? So gambling is indeed man's and of all times. Nevertheless, as a Dutch legislator, we have long had an uncomfortable feeling about gambling. Tonight, too, there is a veil of unease about this debate. That is explainable, because in society too, opinions on gambling differ from one person to another. For one gambling is a reprehensible desire for the material, the other sees a threat especially for people who are addict-sensitive and yet another group of people just has a nice evening out when they go to the casino. If it is up to the VVD, this debate is about whether or not we want to give people the free choice to gamble. Where the 1905 Lottery Law revolved around morality, the 1964 Gaming Act revolved around curbing playfulness. The introduction of a licensing system has made it easier to control supply. This regulation should ensure that the playfulness is kept in check. An absolute ban on gambling was not considered desirable, as the player would then resort to illegal and foreign offerings, with all the negative consequences. These are pre-1964 lyrics that sound familiar today. Unintentionally, the 1964 law did indeed contain an absolute ban. As they hadn't heard of crossword puzzles or football pools in 1905, they hadn't heard of the internet in 1964, let alone online gambling. That's why online gambling is illegal to this day. For example, exactly what happened was what the gambling legislation feared in 1964: hundreds of thousands of Dutch people gamble online, without addiction care, without controlling the laundering of criminal money and without paying gambling tax. We can clearly ban things until we weigh oneself, but the blood crawls where it can't go. Channeling therefore works better than banning. The current law has been overtaken by time for a long time. That even goes so far that many people don't even realize that online gambling is illegal. It is therefore a good thing that the law is now brought to its proper place. Nevertheless, the VVD Group still has questions and comments. First of all, I will deal with the administrative burden. According to the Advisory Committee on Administrative Burdens (Actal), this proposal increases the burden of 66 million, a total of 59 million of which will be charged to gaming halls. That high amount is partly in the duty to introduce access trails. In the meantime, the question is whether these gates help and whether they are the best way to complete the arcade's duty of care. The point is that problem players are being spotted. This can also be done by observing the playing behavior. Now the halls have to screen 100% of the people to get around 1% problem players out. Do we have to set up gates at the liquor store to check if someone's an alcoholic? Meanwhile, gates work to raise the threshold, making problem players more likely to seek refuge at one of the 20,498 slot machines in the catering industry or at an illegal provider, where there is no access control and no addiction care. That is why we have tabled an amendment which gives gaming halls a heavy duty of care rather than a duty to place gates. As far as I am concerned, games halls which systematically fail to comply with this duty of care should lose their license. What is the position of the Secretary of State with regard to my group's proposal to impose a heavy duty of care on the one hand, and on the other hand not to go up to the square meter to specify how they should operate it? As one did not know much about future games of chance in 1905 and 1964, it is now also strange to impose 20th-century access control via gates. The best proof of this comes from the sector, which has now developed its own app, which also allows you to check if there is a problem player nearby. I hope that other groups will look favourably at our amendment and, of course, be open to suggestions for improvement. Then I'll join the sport. Sports results must be able to bet, but bribery of athletes and the influence of criminals on sport must be fought hard. This is first of all about the sport itself, which has taken up this glove with the new code of conduct well. But that's not enough, because there's big and big money going into match fixing. Sports can't handle this alone. Let us therefore use this law to fight match fixing harder and more effectively. If a gambling provider sees that one million euros will be wagered at a volleyball game between the teams of Hoge Zwaluwe and Lage Zwaluwe, all alarm bells must go off. The Gaming Authority, the Sports Association and the club themselves must know this and the Public Prosecutor must take action if necessary. Something like this has happened in France, and that is an even higher amount than the amount I have just mentioned. It is therefore important that suspicious gambling patterns are also reported by licence holders to the Gaming Authority. Authorisation holders are therefore required to report suspicious gambling patterns to the Gaming Authority. This is proposed by the VVD together with the PvdA in an amendment. Experience and research also show that there are sports betting that make match fixing easier and more tempting. Those sports betting should not therefore be offered. Think of gambling on a double service error in tennis. It's too easy to influence and manipulate. It is further up to the Gaming Authority, together with sport, to determine which sports betting should be involved. These two amendments provide better protection for sport against criminals. By the way, with their permission, I would like to point out that the company SciSports, founded by students of TU Twente, uses algorithms and pattern recognition to predict the value of a footballer and when he is likely to score. They now work for football brokers from all over Europe. The accuracy of their predictions is amazing. So they can also recognize deviant and suspicious patterns. Such a technique would be a nice addition in the fight against match fixing. Of course, I am not saying that the Gaming Authority should be involved with this company, because fortunately that is not the issue for the Chamber. I'm just saying this technique can be interesting to consider as a tool for the Ksa. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Then I come to the funding of sport. The sport is having a hard time financially. That's what the parents see on the sports field. You can see that in the contribution. And that's what we hear from the official sports unions. Without eight million athletes and a million volunteers in the sport and without our Olympic athletes and top footballers there would be no sports games to gamble on. They are the ones who organise the games or help make it possible to gamble on them later. Together with the PvdA, the VVD wants them to reap the benefits of gambling on those games. The sport is already financially hard enough, so we should not miss out on opportunities to do something about it. That is why we want to invest in Dutch sports ambitions in the field of broad and top sport. Conservative estimates by the Ministry of Finance indicate that the uniform rate of 29% will yield EUR 8 million per year. This continues over time. Experts and connoisseurs of the market such as Holland Casino expect the gambling market to go bigger. As a result, the additional revenue will increase further and therefore more money will be available for sport. After three years, an amount of 24 to 30 million euros or more for sport can be expected. It is also up to the minister of VWS to decide, in consultation with the First and Second Chambers, which sports ambitions in grassroots sport and top sport deserve the most priority. We call on the government to ensure that the extra proceeds from the games of chance are used to the benefit of sport. I'll go into the taxes. Everyone wants taxes that are fair, simple and as low as possible. The same applies to the gambling tax. The government agreement agreed that there should be a single tax rate of 29% for the entire gambling market: one market, one rate. However, the bill contains the idea to tax gambling games that are played online and gambling games that are not played online differently. That would lead to strange situations. I spoke to someone from the trotting and racing. He was in the bleachers with his daughter. He had bought a ticket downstairs at the office where you can bet on a certain horse. His daughter sat next to him. That horse came running by. The daughter said, "That's my horse!" They had bet on the same horse. However, she had illegally gambled online on that horse, while he had bought a ticket. The same bet on the same horse would be subject to two different tax rates. I don't think that's the idea. If you buy groceries from Albert Heijn, you pay the same VAT rate, whether you have those groceries delivered at home or paid at the cash register. Therefore, there is a PvdA/VVD amendment that aligns these rates. There is also a VVD/PvdA amendment with an evaluation clause. If too few people switch from the illegal market to the legal market as a result of the tariff, something that only time can tell, then that is a reason to take another good look at that rate. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reconsider the tariff in the future if necessary? An amendment by the VVD doubles the tax exemption for games of chance only up to €900 when gambling or other small-scale games. For example, friends and colleagues participate in a football pool or play a poker game. This amount has not been adjusted since 1963. I am really only talking about playing in small circles, with friends and colleagues. The fact that this is not a purely symbolic issue is demonstrated in recent years by warnings from the Tax Administration during European Championships and World Championships. Whoever won the pool at work or the sports club and crossed the threshold had to pay tax. I think that's an example of the fun spoiling. How often in your life do you win a football pool and how often does it happen that you get above the threshold? If someone wins a football pool one time, we shouldn't bother him with a fiscal grocery mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u3	I don't want to spoil the fun, but what's that gonna cost? Does the VVD have any idea? This means less revenue from gambling tax for the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u4	That is a very fair question. In fact, there are no examples of enforcement. This tax is hardly collected. People don't realize it and they don't report it. People do not realize that they commit a tax offence if they win a pool that is above the threshold and do not report it. In practice, therefore, they do not, or hardly, make a declaration of this. Only, according to the letter of the law, and that is what we are talking about now, they are committing a tax offence. I therefore propose a correction to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u5	Do I hear Mr Van Wijngaarden say that this is actually an ineffective provision which is now being improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u6	What Mrs. Swinkels hears me say is this. There are now professional gambling games, gambling games, with the real providers, which we all know. There is a threshold for this and it must remain as it is. Furthermore, you have football pools that organize people in small circles. In 1963 the threshold was 1.000 guilders, on which it is based. That was, of course, a lot of money back then. Due to time and inflation, that has become a different amount. What I'm saying is, let's not be so silly as to send the Tax Administration to people who do that once at work with their colleagues in the cafeteria. If you put 50 or 60 people in a big store of, for example, a well-known supermarket, and you're the only one who predicted the right result, you can just get above it. At first I thought this would be a dead letter that wouldn't be maintained, but then I went looking for something and ran into a warning from the IRS not so long ago at an EK or a World Cup. That is why I have tabled this amendment. I do not want to exaggerate its importance, but it is nevertheless a good thing to bring it up to date. This law is not directly about lotteries and casinos, but in general I would like to dwell briefly on their position. There is little freedom of choice for both lotteries and casinos. We welcome the fact that there will be more room for new lottery game providers while preserving or even increasing contributions to charities, such as sport, nature and culture, but also, for example, support for journalists in countries with lousy press freedom. We have the most beautiful and best lottery system in the world and it is good that the cabinet is careful about this. This is also apparent from the letter we received yesterday from the Secretary of State. The lotteries belong to the Netherlands. The State lottery was even founded by King Willem I, if I'm not mistaken. What's beautiful can get even prettier sometimes. Despite the fact that, for example, the National Postcode Lottery is right behind the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in terms of donations to charities, there are also charities that are excluded. Think of the KNGF of the guide dogs, et cetera. In contrast to the charities that are awarded annually, there are many dozens if not hundreds that do not. If there is room for further development of our beautiful system, we must also use it. I would like to take a moment to consider enforcement. First of all, I would like to give an example of how not to do it, an example from our kingdom, and that is Curaçao. On that island there is a gamma mob that doesn't back down for anything. I think it is very important that we work on the island to find sensible and safe alternatives. This requires the criminal justice chain in a repressive sense, but perhaps the Gaming Authority can also play a role here in the preventive sense. We have also received answers to questions about this. Mr Kooijman of the SP will discuss this further. I am curious to hear the Secretary of State's response on this point. Speaking of the Gaming Authority, what powers are still on the Gaming Authority's wish list and have not yet been filled in? Can the Gaming Authority ask a marketing authorisation holder for a commitment which is then legally binding after commitment? I myself understand that the Ksa will not be given the powers to make a binding commitment by licence holders or, for example, for a public warning, such as financial supervisors who would have. I should therefore like to ask the Secretary of State to check whether that is correct and, if so, to consider granting these powers to the Ksa, unless there are major political objections to it during this debate. However, I find that difficult to imagine. Then I have another question about trotting and racing, which says that it is threatened by illegal gambling providers from abroad. Can the Secretary of State promise that this will not be some kind of blind spot for the Gaming Authority, but that he will also have an eye for that small branch of sports? I would also like to ask him whether the way in which licences are granted for trotting and racing could be more transparent. There too, we are getting signals that there is still room for improvement. Everyone deserves respect for their personal opinions on gambling. I myself knew a GP who went to the casino every week with great pleasure. He got himself all dressed up and his wife came along. They did and still do so with great pleasure and they watch together if things don't get out of hand. However, I also know a story of a Limburg man with a big company who really gambled his whole and kept it in a Swiss casino. In short, what is one night out is yet another step in self-destructive addiction. Personal views and experiences of gambling may be less important tonight. It is a question of whether this law serves the public interest. My thesis is that even if you don't like gambling, the current law is just necessary. Pretending that online gambling doesn't exist, pretending to be able to tackle illegal gambling providers successfully if there isn't any legal alternative is perhaps the most dangerous gamble that parties can take tonight. It would be a gamble to think that it will work out without this law, or that the Netherlands as the only country in Europe does not need regulation. This would mean that there would be no addiction care or addiction fund, that the influence of criminals on sport would not be addressed, that sport would not get any extra money and that the Gaming Authority would not have any additional powers to tackle illegal gambling providers. Let us not speculate that without this law things will work out. So, if necessary, let us jump over our shadows and vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u7	In the whole contribution of Mr Van Wijngaarden, in which he has raised many issues, I have missed one topic: gambling addiction. What is this bill doing for the currently estimated 116,000 gambling addicts? According to Mr Van Wijngaarden, does this bill lead to fewer gambling addicts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u8	I believe that with this bill we are setting up a system of addiction care that is going to be among the best in Europe. There's been a lot of thought on all sides. There has been an extensive consultation on how this can best be arranged. That is where this system came from. I am confident that this will put in place the best possible system. But also in the direction of the Christian Union Group, I say: if parties have suggestions for improvement to help prevent addiction and to improve addiction care, then we are open to it. I think the core of this bill is that there is a regulated legal alternative, in which there is addiction care. That is the essence of this bill. This bill is, in itself, an improvement for gambling addicts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u9	According to bodies with knowledge, such as GGZ Nederland, it is a major danger that this bill will lead to more gambling addiction. And you don't need a gambling bill to fill an addiction fund either, because that would be a gatspe. We already have a lot of addiction care, but we didn't get addiction to increase first. Is Mr Van Wijngaarden prepared to look with me at the evaluation, which he himself proposes, as to whether this law should be reconsidered if the number of gambling addicts increases?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u10	The evaluation clause that I propose in the amendment explicitly takes into account addiction care. For me, gambling addiction is part of that. Of course, we need to look at what this law means for the number of gambling addicts. We're doing this just to get control. What I cannot follow, however, is that certain parties say that we should not have this law because we do not want gambling addicts. But how can addiction care be offered if there are only illegal providers? They don't care about that shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u11	I had a very simple question: is Mr Van Wijngaarden prepared to reconsider this law? The answer can only be yes or no, but I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u12	I'm talking about my own answers. I have said that I am putting a very tight assessment clause in the law, which takes addiction care into account. I also said that what this law means for the number of addicts should be given a place. I think that's a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u13	I don't understand the VVD at all at this point. For years we have allowed criminals and illegals to freely offer their practices online. There has really been hardly any maintenance. The WODC and GGZ Nederland both say that it will increase addiction. So what's the VVD up to? I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u14	We have seen in the past year, because the legislator has remained too much on the table and we have been debating this law for 16 years, which in illegality people can gamble unprotected. There is no form of prevention there. There's no lead to the right care. Illegal providers have no regard for duty of care; they don't even know what it is. That's the problem we solve with this law. I don't understand why people say we shouldn't adopt this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u15	It's true, illegal providers don't care. We should have dealt with the illegal providers. This isn't happening. During the regime of weed trading I was first found not to work for it in the case We have actually tried, time after time, to deal with criminals. We've passed criminal law and we've had countless excavations. However, we do nothing with online providers. Yes, the Gaming Authority sends a note with a friendly request to follow the rules. That's not a gig. Surely the VVD can agree that this cannot be the way we want to ensure the safety of players?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u16	The beauty of this law is that it strengthens the powers and financial resources of the Gaming Authority. That's where we find each other. That is precisely the enforcement we need. This law is really a step forward in this respect. I hope the SP shares that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u17	What surprises me a little is that it is suggested that if this law is not passed, we will abandon anyone who gambles illegally. Why should we adopt this law? There is an unbridled possibility for licence holders. The guests who so far have not been attracted to Dutch legislation, we simply allow this law to apply. The sharks that are now swimming in the North Sea circles, let's come up to our beaches like toxic waves. The VVD says this is brilliant. I don't understand that! Why don't we kick out the guys who aren't behaving right now? Be a little brave! Why don't we say, "Let's get some?" Why does everything need to be taken immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u18	I haven't mentioned sharks and poisonous waves in my contribution, but I understand the point. This law provides the tools to deal with the people we both want to deal with. I think it is now time to look ahead, as the last country of Europe, instead of sticking to the nasty situation that has arisen in recent years, in which there was indeed a lack of enforcement by the Gaming Authority. I say one thing, because I know that Mrs Van Toorenburg sometimes comes to Amsterdam, where I live. Everyone who comes to Amsterdam has seen how difficult it is for the police to maintain on running through red by cyclists. If the number of of offenders is as high as here, the online gambling market is 100% illegal, let's move around in the people who have to maintain it. That's almost unexploited work. The advantage of this law is that we have a regulated legal alternative, which really allows the Gaming Authority to enforce on the remaining illegal segment and to tackle that very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u19	It's unexploited work, because the guests the VVD now says we have to deal with at the time were sitting at the table with Secretary of State Bitches. They were thinking about how they could influence the law. That's what happened! There's been no maintenance! An opportunity has been created to give access to our vulnerable Dutch people precisely to those who do not respect the law. That's what we'll talk to the VVD about later. So do not come to us with the statement: if we do not adopt this law, we will abandon the addicts. The VVD is abandoning them!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u20	Of course, anyone can appeal to me at any time. That's what I'm here for. It is also intended that a Member of Parliament should be critically examined by colleagues. Fine! But I'll add: without a legal alternative, it's gonna be very difficult to deal with these people. And we need to look forward now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u21	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Schouten, who speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing me to be a guest in this committee, because I am replacing my colleague Gert-Jan Segers. This bill is a gamble. It's the bet that people will seamlessly switch from the illegal to the legal gambling market. It is the bet that the gambling market will not grow due to legalization. It's the bet that the illegal offer will automatically disappear. It's the bet that the number of people who become addicted to gambling will fall if we regulate the supply. Big interests are at stake tonight. Big foreign gambling companies, television studios and media groups are on the verge of their seats tonight. They are awaiting the opening of the Dutch gambling market. Two weeks ago, a gambling company became impatient and even threatened to advertise in the daily newspaper if the Chamber didn't deal with this law quickly. You'll have to dare! And also big sports companies want this law. They are keen on the sponsor money that has been put forward. I have noticed that around this law and also the other gambling legislation that is being prepared, the advocates of regulation have made their voices heard loudly. Those are the interests of the big money. But I hope that tonight we will listen mainly to the voice of people with gambling problems, people who are in huge debt, lose their relationships, friends and family and have fallen into deep depression because they had gambling problems. Gambling addiction is a complicated problem. According to the Stichting Anonymous Gamblers, there are 116,000 gambling addicts in the Netherlands. It really is an addiction, but many people can move in it harder than in addiction to drugs, for example. It may also take one or twenty years before gambling is no longer a hobby but an addiction. On average, an addict has been able to play for five years. That also worries me about this law. It could be a long time before we signal the damage caused by this law. So the big question is not today: how can we make the tax jar with gambling revenues? The question is not: how can we make a profit for companies or give money to sports clubs and charities? The question for the Christian Union is: how do we prevent gambling addiction and help this law? Let me say straight away that I have doubts about that. I'm not alone in that. Among others, GGZ Nederland, AGOG, IVO, Tactus and a lot of other organisations in the field of addiction care see great risks. As far as we are concerned, this whole bill is floating on a number of myths. I'd like to go over it with the Chamber. First of all, there's the myth that people like to gamble legally. There is the idea that people who now gamble illegally will very much like to switch to the government regulated gambling market. I don't know where that thought came from. Why does the Secretary of State think that people will prefer a website with all kinds of obligations and taxes and extra costs to a website on which they can simply gamble without conditions, with a little luck also with a higher prize money and a little more tension? I don't understand that reasoning. I also read that the gambling companies themselves criticize the many demands on the legal offer. At the same time, that is at the heart of the Secretary of State's argument. It is precisely these demands that are needed to be able to do this responsibly, the government says. That's why I don't understand his reasoning. The government is aiming for an 80% channeling rate. This means that 80% of online gambling will be legal soon. What is this percentage based on? Is it realistic, or is it more of a wish in the category of "world peace"? Efforts must also be backed up by an action plan, which is necessary to find a way out of this. Is that what's going on? Secondly, there is the myth that the illegal offer will automatically disappear. The Council of State is keen on the effectiveness and enforcement of the proposal: effectiveness and enforcement have not been demonstrated in advance. It is unrealistic to assume that the intended channelisation rate will be achieved, and the effectiveness of the measures against gambling addiction has not been demonstrated either. The question is therefore whether the proposed measures in the Wok can actually achieve a reliable, responsible and verifiable offer of remote gambling, according to the Council of State. I must also note that, in the current situation, the Ksa hardly seems to be able to shape its legal task. Illegal gambling is not being tackled. It doesn't even look like they're getting started. Reference is made to the cross-border nature of this. If, for all kinds of reasons, it is not possible to act against illegal offers, it will be. I would like to hear the Minister's arguments as to why there would be a different situation with this law. I repeat the opinion of the Council of State, which states that final enforcement is not possible. I don't understand what's getting better now. Regulation does not work if a final approach to illegality is not possible. Why not opt for a policy of discouragement? Why are all actions against illegal offers not first taken in a situation of a total ban? I would also like to mention Australia. That is also where the market is regulated. It has not been possible to tackle foreign illegal gambling companies at all. So that's very difficult and it's going to ask a lot of questions from the Ksa. I also have concerns about the capacity of this organization. Since 2013, the Supervisory Department of the Ksa has been composed of 9 fte. In the run-up to this bill, this has become 17 since 2014, but that is of course nothing if you have to carry out all the monitoring tasks that result from this law and still have to go to the fight against illegal supply. Can the Secretary of State now outline exactly how this supervision is going to work in the near future? Suppose I report later, after this bill has been passed, that I've come across an illegal website on which you can gamble. Then what should the Ksa do with my report according to this Secretary of State? Isn't a huge increase in the Ksa's capacity necessary, even if only for the first few years, so that she can really make a fist against the illegal offer? I'd like to get a response to that. On this point, I am preparing an amendment which explicitly states in the Ksa's mandate that it is concerned with combating, within its powers, the unauthorised and unauthorized offer of games of chance. It is an accent, but it is important, in our view, for it to be added explicitly into the law. The third myth is that the gambling market will not grow extra. The government's expectation is that the demand for remote gambling will grow by 12% until 2017. According to the government, this is regardless of whether this bill is passed. The government also says about the investigation that the prediction is based on the assumption that the market will be regulated from 2017. Meanwhile, the Gaming Authority sits on its hands and does nothing about the illegal market, pending this law. Then I don't think it's strange that you can predict strong growth by now. Is it even desirable for the gambling market to grow? Shouldn't policy focus on shrinking the gambling market, given the high levels of addiction, debt issues and so on? In 2011, I adopted a motion calling for a target for reducing the number of gambling addicts. What is the ambition of this Secretary of State on that point? Is he prepared to call us a target for the growth of the online gambling market? Is he prepared to include the aspect of addiction growth in the evaluation which Mr Van Wijngaarden has just announced? I come to the myth that you will have fewer addicts on balance after regulation. The idea behind this law is that in the legal sector you can pay more attention to addiction risks. I have a few doubts about that. The Secretary of State refers to countries such as the United Kingdom and Denmark, where online gambling is already allowed. But a study in Denmark shows an increase of 350% in addicted young people over the last four years. The total number of addicts in all games of chance has increased tenfold. I know the Secretary of State's views on the methodological limitations of the research in question, but even though there are difficulties, there is growth in it. That's a wipe sign, isn't it? Moreover, I believe that the risk group in regulation will quickly deviate from the illegal offer. As soon as someone's blacklisted or being addressed through a chat program to his risky playing behavior, he's just moving on to the illegal offer, isn't he? The Secretary of State himself claims that it can't be eradicated and the characteristic of addiction is that you don't let legislation interfere with your addiction. In doing so, I have questions about the obligations for licence holders in the online gambling games. They're gonna have to keep an eye on players and intervene when they're playing improperly. How is it properly checked whether marketing authorisation holders do so? Does the Gaming Authority have sufficient powers to also access the registered data of the holder of the authorisation, to verify whether there has been proper or unjustified intervention? How is that jurisdiction governed by the law? I'd like that clarified. I also wonder how the Gaming Authority will find that a gambling company should have reasonably suspected that it was wrong with an online player. How can that suspicion come about? What signals should a marketing authorisation holder record? Furthermore, I do not see how you are monitoring online players as a licence holder. Do they have to have a chat or a video conversation to do that, according to the government? Of course, someone can easily avoid that. Should I read the law in such a way that a provider is obliged to refuse to participate if that person does not respond to the digital address? I'd like a response. And another concern: why should providers of gambling over the internet not just have an office in the Netherlands? This facilitates supervision and makes it easier for companies to evade supervision. Besides, it keeps the big foreign players out of the door. I am also thinking of Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion on this. I don't understand why the Secretary of State didn't just listen to the Chamber on this point. Why isn't that demand in the law? I'd like a response. Another comment on gambling on the open television network. The Chamber said a long time ago about this, and yet it is not in the law. Following the Segers motion, there is now an amendment by Mr Segers that regulates that no gambling channel can be placed on the open net. That brings me to the commercial, too. If we want to fight gambling addiction, advertising gambling is complicated. I am considering tabling an amendment on that point, but I also noticed that an amendment by Mrs Kooiman has been tabled on that point. I'm gonna take a look at that. In general, I think it is right that we limit the possibilities of advertising gambling. I am also very concerned about the position of young people. The government itself writes on page 17 of the note following the further report on the risk of gambling addiction among young people. It says that, according to the government, young adults are vulnerable to developing risky playing behaviour. The government also states that consultation with addiction care has shown that a separate approach is desirable for the group of young adults aged 18-24 years. We have therefore tabled an amendment to increase the age at which young people are allowed to gamble to 21 years. Then there's the possibility of betting on sports games. I find that really incomprehensible in the context of the discussions on match fixing. It is a bridge too far for my group. I'm afraid it might affect the sport. I therefore think Mrs Van Toorenburg's amendment is very good. We will support that wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u23	I have a question about the amendment that raises the age limit. How high does the Christian Union estimate the risk that young people between 18 and 21 years of age may be migrating to the illegal circuit? We don't want that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u24	This reasoning can be extended to all age groups. How does Mr Van Wijngaarden prevent the category from drifting to illegal gambling for up to 18 years? That's the crux of this whole law. We have no guarantees. It is all a gamble that this will reduce and eliminate the illegal supply. We want to be fully committed to prevention. We want to make it complicated to gamble. We do not want to bear the devastating consequences of addiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u25	Mrs Schouten does not answer my question. The age limit of 18 years has not been exceeded. That is the age at which young people become able to act, the age at which they start doing things themselves. If you just raise that line to 21 years you consciously risk that group going its own divine course and disappearing into illegality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u26	As far as we're concerned, this whole gambling bill wouldn't have come about anyway. We have to stop gambling. I'm pretty clear on that. If I can make it more complicated to gamble, I'll try. The risk of illegal gambling among young people aged 18 to 21 is now no higher than with this bill. With this bill, that route remains open. I have already expressed my doubts as to whether people will opt for the legal circuit at all if much more demands are made. They have easier access to the illegal circuit and may also be able to make more money there. In the broad sense, the legislative proposal is almost a kind of money laundering of a situation that cannot be countered. The more thresholds we can raise for people to gamble, the more we will do so. Then there are future developments. I think it is important that, as a Chamber, we keep a grip on the development of the online gambling market. I now read Article 31a (4) in such a way that other requirements can be imposed through the gambling permit on the type of gambling that is and the type of gambling that is not permissible. I will put forward an amendment which regulates the inclusion of the AMvB in which rules are laid down. I understand that the law is technically neutral, but the Chamber must be able to talk about this. I'm rounding up. I'm very concerned about the movement this government is making around gambling. The opening up of the gambling market is a big gamble; a gamble that is at the expense of everyone's health, but which can be particularly bad for our young people. Regulation is a policy of good intentions that is used by the big money to break open the gambling market. In 2005 there was a similar proposal that fortunately was fired by the First Chamber. The objections that my group had at the time have not yet been removed, but I look forward to the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u27	I listened with great interest to Mrs Schouten's contribution on behalf of the Christian Union. We have a lot of worries that she has, too. In reply to a question by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mrs Schouten said that she wants to raise as many thresholds as possible against gambling in view of the danger of addiction. Here's what I'm curious about. If it does not want to vote in favour of this law, what does it want to do to reduce the problems it sees and which we also see?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u28	I have already mentioned this in my contribution. Make the Ksa huge, make the Ksa huge. Make sure she can stop illegal gambling. Just make sure there's real repression. At the moment, we almost accept a situation where we can gamble on anything online and say we can't do anything about it. That's a political choice. We can do something about it if we are prepared to put more money in it, to set up more people and to actually maintain them. That is what this law does not do enough for us. We should do more about addiction care. Then you can reduce the devastating effects of gambling more and more on two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u29	I understand. The Gaming Authority has not acted very forcefully in recent years. However, I would like to be more specific. It is estimated that at the moment and according to the current Gambling Law, 400,000 to 1 million people are punishable, because online gambling is now punishable. Is the Gaming Authority perhaps going to have to deal with a million people? How does the Christian Union see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u30	No, that should not happen at all at the level of the gamblers, but it should be done at the level of those who offer those gambling websites. I refer to all those big companies, all those big men and women who earn millions and perhaps billions, often over the backs of our young people, or people who are slightly mentally handicapped. Those are the target groups that are particularly vulnerable, while the cabinet suggests with this bill that this is normal and that you can handle this in a legal way. The consequences are really too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u31	Mr. Chairman. There's a really thick map on my table over there. This is therefore a comprehensive legislative proposal with major implications for the gambling sector. Representatives of this sector are currently in the public gallery. D66 is positive about the regulation of remote gambling. There's a gamble in the Netherlands. Given the risks, D66 sees gambling as the preferred place to be in a safe environment. However, there is always a but. This bill raises a lot of questions for my group and makes it very critical. For example, I have questions about the amount of measures to be completed, second, the DNS blockades that the Gaming Authority is allowed to do, third, the privacy aspects, fourth, the percentage of payments, fifth, the duty of care for licence holders, sixth, the involuntary exclusion of players and seventh, the financial consequences for sport. I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to give me more clarity in the debate before my group decides on this bill. I'll start with the lower regulation. It is well known that my group attaches great importance to the control function of the Chamber. This is an important aspect of our parliamentary democracy. However, it is as if the Secretary of State does not take it so closely, because the measures in this legislative proposal that still need to be worked out in lower legislation are almost impossible to count. I'll give you a selection. This is primarily about the player. I mention the retention period of the player profile, the processing of personal data, the requirements for identification, rules on the player account, rules on termination of registration, storage of data in the financial control database and the security of this data. Those are already ten things around the player that still have to be worked out. The following has not yet been settled around the marketing authorisation holder. I refer to the payment rate for remote games of chance, the requirements for the duty of care for licence holders, for example the information they have to provide to players and the risk indicators for the exclusion of a player. I also mention the requirements for recording and analysing transactions, rules on applications for authorisation, the duration of the authorisation, the requirements for responsible, reliable and verifiable business operations, and the way in which the authorisation holder should combat fraud and crime. Finally, I would like to mention the maximum financial guarantee to be provided by the holder of the authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u32	We know D66 as a very great advocate of privacy. I would like the D66 spokesman to give a straight answer to the following question. In the proposal that is now before us, a vulnerable person must give his whole soul and salvation to a gambling company. I'm gonna mention the social security number, his name, his account number, a copy of his passport; he's gonna have to send the whole sant stand to someone who's just criminal right now. How does D66 feel about that? Is that gonna count so hard that D66 says we're not gonna see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u33	I know Mrs Van Toorenburg as someone who sits like a goat on the oatmeal box. I appreciate that in her, too. If she gives me a moment, I'll get to that point of privacy. She was right to point out that we have concerns about this, especially when it comes to the Bsn. If she'll let me, I'll go on and get back to you. If I don't, I suppose I'll see her standing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u34	Mrs. Swinkels is a solid judge, so she'll do it balanced. However, I think it is nice and clear for the public gallery to hear at the end of the story whether it is yes or no, and whether D66 is actually going to take this kind of stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u35	I'm going on. There is still a third group of lower regulation needed when it comes to the game itself. What remains to be regulated are the types of games covered by this bill, the rules on sports betting, the rules on which means of telecommunications are precisely covered by remote gambling, the waiting time for the adjustment of the playing limits, the concrete development of prevention policy, which is an important point, and the electronic inspection by the Gaming Authority. And I can go on like this for a while. So I really wonder how the Secretary of State can now expect Parliament to approve a legislative proposal of which a very large part, with essential elements in its elaboration, is not yet clear and thus possible to fill in later without parliamentary control. Now the preparation of this bill has been going on for years. So I bet that somewhere in the Ministry of V and J the AMvBs are already ready to fill this out. Could the Secretary of State perhaps forward these documents to the Chamber for the continuation of this debate next week? At least then the Chamber will know what it agrees with, the unrest among the trade associations will be removed and the support for the Secretary of State may also be strengthened. I come to my second topic: the DNS blockades. That may seem a small part of the law, but it does have major consequences. It concerns the power of the Gaming Authority to block websites. This power allows the Gaming Authority, among other things, to force Internet Providers, such as Ziggo and KPN, to block websites via DNS or IP blocks. For D66 that is unacceptable, for three reasons. Firstly, it is ineffective, secondly, it causes serious damage to the functioning of the Internet and thirdly, it is bad for our locational environment. It's ineffective because blockages are easy to bypass. In addition, there is the more fundamental point: the disruption of the way the Internet works and which everyone should be able to assume. Furthermore, it is bad for our location climate, because the digital infrastructure of AMS-IX and data centers has recently been declared the third mainport of the Netherlands. The companies in that third mainport therefore strongly oppose the additional competence of the Gaming Authority. That is also right, because there are 140,000 jobs in the Netherlands. Finally, on some points, the legal text is rather cryptic. I have a few questions to clarify.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u36	I have a question about the Internet blocks. It is true that this legislative proposal is handled with great care because it always has to be subject to judicial review, because there is no other way. Doesn't the fraction of D66 think it's a bit of a horse's waist by saying: we're just gonna knock the whole gun out of the hands of the Gaming Authority? Isn't that what we're doing to the illegal providers who we've just been talking about a service? After all, they can keep their site in the air. It's not like if a link doesn't work, it's like the end of the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u37	Now, as a woman, I have to explain to a man the technicalities. The most important thing is that at the moment I am satisfied with the fact that a DSN-block is closing a door. That's different than getting a website out of the sky. You can do that in the Netherlands, but you do have to go to the judge commissioner. Mr Van Wijngaarden must imagine it as a tree. When such a DSN blockade is committed, you go somewhere in the trunk with a knife rooting to drop the pear at the end of the branch. That's not effective. In addition, you can do the same with IP addresses: then replace a domain name with an IP address.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u38	Mrs Swinkels is doing emancipation another service, because she knows much more about technology than I do. That is already apparent from her many jargon; I can hardly follow it. I really only have one main political question to ask her, not a technical one: what means does the Gaming Authority now have to deal with websites of illegal providers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u39	I thought, but perhaps I didn't understand you correctly, that you just mentioned that drug yourself, namely going to the judge's office and asking if he's taking the website out of the sky, which is something other than a DNS blockade, but I just explained that to you. I will continue my speech. I come to the concept of "provider." For D66, it is not entirely clear what that concept means, "a provider of a public electronic communications service." What exact assignments can the Gaming Authority give to hosters, ISPs and other digital infrastructure companies to make websites inaccessible? Can the Secretary of State specifically address the technique that can be used? 'Cause you know, I love technique. My third point concerns privacy. Then I come to Mrs Van Toorenburg's question. For D66 privacy is a very important asset; Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly points out this. I want to talk about the storage of player data, the use of the civilian service number and the operation of the CRUKS. D66 recognises the need for data storage in the fight against gambling addiction, but when it comes to personal data, D66 makes sure that it does not go beyond what is necessary. First, the retention period of the profiles. It is unclear how long after a profile has been closed, personal data and game behaviour will be kept with the holder of the authorisation. Is it now five years, as the Secretary of State writes in the explanatory statement, or three years, as stated in the note on the report? Why is this important for, as the Secretary of State puts it, the monitoring of the holder of the licence by the Gaming Authority? Please note: the licence holder, not the player. Why is the player's data needed to check the licence holder? The aim is also to prevent players from re-subscribe immediately after unsubscribe. But do these players have to wait five years? I'm not the only one who's critical of that. Although the Personal Data Protection Board has not yet given an opinion because the storage periods for the personal data have yet to be worked out, I have already said so, but the College was already critical in advance. The Secretary of State indicates that the College will seek advice when drawing up these rules. That seems to me right, because this is sensitive information. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the retention period of both the personal data and the data on game behaviour? Has the College perhaps already advised and, if so, could the Secretary of State send that advice to the Chamber for the continuation of the proceedings? I'm getting on the social security number. I see Mrs Van Toorenburg is gone, but perhaps she will listen in the corridors. Ah, I see her show up in the hall again. I have a simple question for the Secretary of State: is the civil service number going to the licence holder or not? After all, the social service number is only intended for communication between the government and the citizen. However, when it comes to registration in the CRUKS, the licence holder provides the player data to the Gaming Authority. I read in the explanatory statement that for a quick and unique identification the citizen service number is the ideal means. Then I don't understand it anymore. Therefore, my question to the Secretary of State: how does this relate to the fact that the licence holders are rightly not allowed to have the civil service number? I would like to receive an answer. I come to the payoff rate for remote games of chance. With this bill, the State Secretary gives himself the opportunity to introduce a rate of payment for remote gambling under lower ministerial regulations. Although D66 is not against such a payment, it is a major requirement for the licence holders. A compulsory payment becomes an additional cost item. This in turn has an effect on the level of channelization, because the prize pool will of course be reduced proportionally. It may therefore become less attractive for people to go online legally. On the other hand, in the context of fair competition, it is important that all providers should be subject to the same requirements as they offer the same offer. I see the Secretary of State nodding now; I'm glad. Once again, however, the Chamber does not know what the Secretary of State is planning. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this compulsory payment for remote games of chance will be made? If so, how high will that percentage be and what effect will this have on the level of channelization? Does the Chamber have any influence on that? We are in favour of high standards of duty of care. This duty of care is important, because it is at the heart of prevention policy. We consider the prevention of gambling addiction to be important. That is, therefore, rightly an essential part of the legislative proposal. As my colleague from the Christian Union said, gambling addiction is a real problem, both for the individual and for society. Therefore, a careful and effective prevention policy is needed. Because of this active duty of care for licence holders, Dutch policy is different from that in other European countries. That is a very good aim, but the implementation of this prevention policy is not yet sufficiently developed, as authorities such as Jellinek and GGZ have also indicated the Netherlands. As a result, the Chamber has no idea of the effectiveness of that policy. I take it the Secretary of State doesn't have that either. It is clear that the requirements of the marketing authorisation holders are high. They are given a duty to inform, signal and intervene. The requirements involved are also laid down in lower regulation. It is therefore difficult to foresee the extent to which marketing authorisation holders can meet those requirements. For example, what are the risk indicators for players? When are they supposed to ring the bell with the Gaming Authority? What information should they give to players and how should they do that? In short, the Secretary of State is showing off his prevention policy, but as long as we do not know exactly what that means, we cannot judge those feathers. I'd like to be more clear about that from the Secretary of State. I also have a question about involuntary exclusion based on the CRUKS, the Central Register Exclusion Gaming. Indeed, the effectiveness of involuntary exclusion based on the CRUKS is questionable. As the Gaming Authority points out, it's very difficult to change behavior if someone doesn't want to. In relation to the effect, these additional costs are high. Can the Secretary of State explain why he allows involuntary exclusion if the effect of this is questionable? Finally, I would like to say a few words about sport. After all, this bill has implications for sport and these are not to be ignored. It concerns both match fixing and funding, the sponsorship of sport. The sport depends to a large extent on the proceeds of organisations that now offer sports betting. For example, the NOC*NSF receives almost half of its income via De Lotto. Of these, top athletes are accompanied, but also sports fields are maintained. Is it true that this bill will lead these parties to become more competitive? Can the Secretary of State say what effect this has on the financing of sport? It is clear that the D66 Group is in favour of the purpose of this bill, the regulation of remote gambling, but it still has some difficulty with the way and the way in which it is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u40	I thought Mrs Van Toorenburg had a very valid point. When assessing this law, we also questioned the extent to which players' data would reach suppliers. For example, we have decided on how best to arrange an age check for online providers. We came to the conclusion that it's no different than having players' data checked by the licence holders. How does D66 feel about that? It is not just about storing data with the Ksa, but also about giving players data to online providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u41	You're asking me the question. I can look at the Secretary of State for the answer, but I will still try to answer the question. I believe that these providers are subject to the Data Protection Act, just like anyone who creates a data file. The College will also advise on this. The college is the most appropriate party to say something about it. That is why I am so keen on the opinion and I want us to be able to see the opinion before we continue the debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u42	That is a valid point. It just doesn't quite answer my question. We also ran into that point. If you can't arrange for providers not to have player data, do you have to agree to the law? Our conclusion was the following. Whether you turn left or right, in order to check an age, you need to give player data to online providers. So again the question: if D66 has such a high priority for privacy, should the group vote in favour of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u43	Whether we are going to vote in favour of this law is not yet certain. That will depend on the answer of the Secretary of State to my questions and on the advice of the Personal Data Protection Board. Once again, privacy is an important issue for D66, even when it comes to personal data that end up with providers. I very much agree with Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u44	Mr. Chairman. It is my honour to replace Mr Van der Staaij. Five years ago, the government came up with a policy vision of gambling. Its tone was: give people their own responsibility and ensure a less restrictive policy. The draft law before us is one of the fruits of the policy pursued by the previous cabinet and of the policy vision. The current Gambling Act has three objectives: preventing gambling addiction, protecting consumers and combating illegal offers. Without making this explicit, the present proposal seems to set a new goal, namely to ensure a varied and fun gambling offer, in which you have to find out for yourself how far you go. My voice fell out for a while, so I'm gonna take a sip of water. Sometimes the emotions become just as much when you have to present these kinds of lyrics. The bill introduces legalization of online gambling, i.e. remote gambling, and a register of people excluded from gambling. The Central Register Exclusion Gaming applies to Holland Casino, operators of slot rooms and license holders of online gambling. A separate legislative proposal also followed a written procedure for more room for casinos and a reduction in the monopoly. I cut the argument in two parts. First, I offer a number of observations from the SGP approach. After that, I will mention a number of essential points of attention. A number of observations. The first observation is that the sector always wants more space, caterpillar-never-enough. This proved to be the case when the bill on the Gaming Authority was discussed. It is a sector in which "the degree of willingness to conform a priori to what the government commands is not always the same. The limits of restrictive policy are deliberately explored," the explanatory memorandum states. I don't know how to say it any better, but it's exactly what I mean by caterpillar-never-enough. The second observation is that there is a double attitude in the government. First of all, she says that it is not really that good, and it is not for nothing that the reduction of addiction is one of the objectives of gambling policy, but then it allows additional offers to prevent illegal supply from being maintained. That trick has been played before, even at the games of chance. The third observation is that the legalization of certain activities restricts the illegal supply. We've heard that before. The government itself has already indicated that a small part of the providers will remain illegally active. How the government knows that it will only be a small part of the providers is still shrouded in the mists of the future. As far as we are concerned, we should not expect too much of legalization. By the way, if we apply this reasoning, we could also legalize bicycle theft, so that a legal offer of stolen bicycles arises. What's wrong at first is wrong, even if you call it right and you've legalized it. The fourth observation includes something for which the government also has an eye and which is related to the preceding: the natural gamble of man. Even in this bill, which provides more freedom for gambling, the government recognises that sin is more or less hidden in every human being. The government states that advertising must not lead to man's natural gamble. I had to think very carefully about that phrase, because it reminded me very much of a statement by the Apostle Paul, who says that money covetousness is the root of all evil. Or, in more contemporary terms, love for money is the source of much misery. This indicates that you should be on your guard, not just for the so-called risk groups, but in fact for every human being. The fifth observation is that the objectives of making profits and limiting playfulness are contrary to each other. The goal is to curb the playfulness and a responsible offer, but enlargement is the practice, no matter how many fine words you change it exactly. Of course, it will never succeed in completely eliminating any form of gambling, but it is an illusion to think that increasing the supply creates a constant demand. Then the providers have better understood what will happen when you increase the offer. Channeling seems to be a short-term solution, but in the long term it creates many more problems, such as channeling rivers increases the problems downstream. The sixth observation is that the dual attitude of the government also appears in advertising policy. The advertising must not lead to it, as it says, that people who do not intend to participate will still participate. In other words, people who do not intend to participate should not be persuaded by advertising to still participate. I do not know exactly how that can be measured and how you determine it, but I am very curious how the Gaming Authority will monitor this. In our view, this is a little short-sighted. You may refer to the offer, but you can't get people excited. We have no idea how to look at this in concrete terms. I therefore ask the Secretary of State how the Gaming Authority will monitor and measure this. I come to speak about the principles from which the SGP has looked at this bill. It is probably already between the lines by listening that the SGP is not enthusiastic about the present proposal. She is also not enthusiastic about giving more space to the surrounding tentacles of the gambling industry. On the contrary. As far as the SGP is concerned, a good and effective policy follows five lines: firstly, to prevent, secondly, to provide assistance, thirdly, not to provoke, fourthly, to maintain rules and fifthly, to ensure fair taxation. I'm gonna walk by those five. The first is to combat gambling addiction. It is a pleasure to note that, fortunately, we share the view that gambling addiction should be combated. The fact that there are risks is not denied by anyone either. The difference of opinion is about what we have to do to prevent us from stimulating that addiction and increasing those risks. In our view, it is not logical to think that if demand is expected to increase by 12%, there will be no increase in the number of risk and problem players. On the contrary. It's about the risks of online gambling from behind your computer, without having to contact anyone. Especially in the case of remote gambling, the personal element that is still present in other games of chance is missing. There is no human control in the immediate vicinity. The control that's in place is at its best at a distance. We are very afraid that this anonymity greatly increases the risk of addiction. This is also recognised in the aforementioned policy vision, which I started with. Following the unexpected introduction of these measures, we would therefore like a new evaluation, to see what the effects are on gambling addiction, so how these figures develop. I would also like a zero reading before this bill comes into force. Then we will be able to determine what developments are taking place. The second principle is to help. It is a good thing that there will be a register to exclude people from participating in games of chance. This can be forced if there are risk players. The SGP believes that the Gaming Authority should pay close attention to the fact that this is also being seriously addressed by the providers. Isn't there a good chance that the providers would prefer to be just a bit later on registering in such a register than the competitor? In addition, it is also possible for people to register with multiple licence holders and thus be less quickly detected. What is being done about it? We call on the Secretary of State to look again at how this registration is designed in such a way that risk players and vulnerable groups are effectively protected. We think it's a good thing that people can register themselves. This voluntary enrollment offers opportunities for people to protect themselves from the power and temptation of gambling. However, we do not think it should be made too easy to unsubscribe. The law already provides for a period of six months in which it is not possible to unsubscribe, but we are working on an amendment to ensure that people cannot impulsively opt out. It's not for nothing that they've ever signed up for themselves. Then, as far as we're concerned, there's got to be an extra safety. In concrete terms, we are thinking of the provision that the application for cancellation will only start after one month. The addiction fund also offers great opportunities, but that remains a shady cloth for bleeding. Moreover, the SGP wonders whether it would not be better to have the addiction fund replenished from the proceeds of all games of chance and not just remote games of chance. How does the Secretary of State view this? Then the third point: don't provoke. The legal rules on advertising give some guidance, to prevent people from being lured and tempted to participate in gaming. These are further developed in lower regulation, and can be summarized in: misleading advertising must be countered. In practice, however, it appears that advertising and recruitment activities are very close. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reconsider the rules in the AMvB and to consider the possibilities for strengthening these measures? One improvement is possible anyway. Based on the advertising code for gaming players, it is still allowed to provide TV advertisements as early as 19:00. Previously, following the Van der Staaij motion, it was promised that it would be investigated whether it would be better to leave that time to at least 9 p.m., and even later, as with alcohol advertising. Why hasn't that happened yet? We are preparing an amendment to regulate this also legally for gaming advertising. It is precisely the protection of young people and other vulnerable people that should be of great concern to us. Through this amendment we want to lay down the protection of young people and the advertising ban in the law. Another form of advertising is offering free plaything. Why should you, rightly, not be allowed to use recruiting advertising, but to offer free play goods? That seems to be the SGP even more radical than a recruiting advertising message. Although we are experiencing some reluctance on the part of the government, we urge it to take action against this. We therefore ask the cabinet how allowing free play equipment to be offered fits in with reducing gambling addiction. After all, if there is one mechanism that promotes this, it is that. We are sympathetic to the Segers and Van Toorenburg amendments on this point. We are therefore looking forward to the reaction of the Secretary of State. The fourth principle is enforcement. Colleagues have also noted that enforcement is lagging behind, although the advent of the Gaming Authority has already improved. However, we are seeing too late action in remote games of chance. In time intervention ensures that the problems remain manageable. For new forms of games of chance, therefore, we must intervene sooner. Meanwhile, the Gaming Authority indicates that it is difficult to effectively impose fines on illegal providers abroad. This will require more international cooperation. What concrete plans does the government have to improve this cooperation? The fifth principle is not to favour taxation. We should not apply a lower tax rate for one game of chance than for the other. I refer to the 20% and 29% already mentioned. This is particularly true when we realise that this is a much more risky game of chance. The SGP therefore does not want a differentiated rate, but a fair and equal tax for everyone, regardless of the type of game of chance. We are therefore looking forward to the State Secretary's opinion on the amendment to this point. Finally, I go into the idea of the VVD and the PvdA to channel some of the proceeds from gambling to the sport. The SGP believes that we should not impose taxes as a pass-through to serve certain objectives. If you want more funding for sport, you have to arrange it directly when dealing with the budget, but not with the slogan "support the sport, take a chance" generating extra money for sport. In fact, that's what the VVD and the PvdA want. First they impose a tax, then they say "make sure you're going to gamble extra, then you'll help the sport advance with your tax dollars and you'll still have a chance to win some too." At the VVD I can almost imagine, but I was hurt by the addition of the PvdA. You know gambling costs more money than it costs. It is precisely the weakest in society that is pressing out. Ask the addiction care institutions how big the problems are. I would remind you of the number already passed: more than 100,000. You shouldn't tempt people by promising golden mountains when it ends up hungover. We look forward to a government policy vision that includes measures that actually reduce the gamble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u45	I hear the SGP say: if you want more money for sport, that's fine, but you have to settle that in the budget. That's exactly what we're doing here, isn't it? Thanks to the uniform rate, which fortunately the SGP is also for, additional gambling tax revenues are to be expected. We are already proposing that they should be marked for sport. Mr Bishop is now making a huge caricature of this, but I think we are simply in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u46	With all due respect for the financial insight that is usually clearly recognizable by the VVD, but that's a weird reasoning, isn't it? A tax generates money that flows into the general budget. The PvdA and the VVD propose to levy this tax and to stamp revenue, because that money should not go to general resources because it must be passed on to sport. That's against the principle of healthy taxation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u47	That's kind of easy for me. You're just criticizing me, and you're telling me that we need to arrange money for sport elsewhere. I didn't hear you find that money. So what does the SGP arrange for the sport? Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u48	For the SGP, it is very doubtful whether you should support sport in this and other ways so much from the general funds. I just have to mention the headlines about all kinds of things. Matchfixing has already been mentioned and I can mention a few names of settings where it is not quite kosher either. Then you have to ask yourself in a spirit whether you, as a government, want to interfere with that at all and certainly whether you, as a government, want to spend taxpayers' money on it, including people who have nothing to do with it. It seems to me to be a very good reason to keep away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u49	Mr. Bishop mentioned the chapter Paul from the Bible and I didn't expect anything else from him either. I would like to talk to him about the core doctrine of the Bible, namely forgiveness for us, poor sinners. That's what we celebrate at Easter. Mr Bishop said halfway through his speech that channeling leads to greater problems. He has doubts about the law, and I understand that. But then he went into five measures that we could take to curb that for us poor sinners, we gamblers, I don't gamble myself, but many people do. Do I understand now that, as Christ says, "trying to meet us sinners" the SGP is sympathetic to this bill if these five measures, referred to as Mr Bishop, are also properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u50	If these five measures were implemented, these principles would be transposed into legislation, we will soon be informed by the Cabinet that the present proposal is being withdrawn and that we can expect a new proposal. In that sense, that is correct. When it comes to the forgiveness of sins, the forgiveness of the evil that sinners do, I would point out that this bill facilitates the evil that people can be tempted to do much more than it does. That is why we will not support this proposal in this form. The real help to people is to indeed protect them from the evil where you can do it as a fellow man and where that lies in your ability. You have to help escape that evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u51	We fully agree that we must try to prevent this evil as much as possible, but also that people will continue to do so. Your five measures, to combat gambling addiction, to provide help, to fund addiction, not to provoke, to enforce and not to favour online play are part of all the amendments that we have seen come across. So I don't see why the bill wouldn't exist if we all did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u52	I have just said that the bill as such facilitates the committing of that evil. That is why we have serious doubts. I have already indicated that several amendments make a positive adjustment to the legislative proposal. So it may well be that we will vote wholeheartedly in favour of a number of amendments, but we must look at the end result. Is there, then, something that can harm evil or facilitate evil?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u53	May I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u54	Interrupts actually go in two?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u55	But it's a very short question. Is evil allowed in a casino and not online?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u56	No, no, that's not a fundamental difference. Gambling as such acts exactly on the natural gamble of man, on the desire for money. The government is bound to fight that evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u57	First of all, I have a question about the previous motion of the SGP with the proposal to align advertising with alcohol. We have tabled an amendment to that effect, not knowing that a motion had already been adopted. If Mr Bishop wishes to sign this, he is therefore invited to attend.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u58	So you see again: "SP" and "SGP" only differ one letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u59	I also have a question about the amendment tabled by Mr Bishop on the voluntary exclusion register, although I will not use any Bible texts. I gotta tell you, I'm kind of messing with that. If the minimum period is extended, people cannot actually unsubscribe as quickly as possible. Isn't there a very high risk that people will stop volunteering because they think that period is so long? I'm a little afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u60	We have had the exact same struggle, and we still do. This is an instrument that allows people to choose to protect themselves from themselves. What is the right time? We thought this would be a good form. But we are very much prepared to talk about this and thus come to something that we all feel, preferably Chamberwide, that we are giving people an instrument by which they can protect themselves from themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u61	Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, I spoke about gambling legislation: modernisation okay, liberalisation no way! That's what I said then, but everything that happened after that, I actually kept past that same bar. We have been very critical of what the cabinet was doing all along. Of course, we have made a number of suggestions for improvement along the way. I believe that some of our suggestions have also brought benefits. Look, for example, at making information anonymized, so that scientific research into gambling addiction ultimately gives us more insight. We are also pleased that tax rates will eventually be levelled. There are quite a few points that I think we were critical and something has been done about it. When I look at the bill, we still have some major criticisms. It seems that it is more liberalisation than a little modernisation. What points does the CDA want to make its criticism of? First of all, this bill is contrary to the motion-Building Master c.s. in piece No. 19 (3264) explicitly stating that illegal gambling providers should not be eligible for a licence for remote gambling. That point of departure has been thrown overboard with this bill. The Ksa has for some time even opened up the possibility for providers to make known their interest in a licence. A number of providers I don't even want to mention, because then I almost make my own advertising... couldn't wait. They have violated the ban on advertising on the Dutch market in recent years. What does the government say about this? The point is that the Gaming Authority is confident that after regulation the providers will comply with the rules. At the same time, the Secretary of State says that this cannot be without consequences and that he can imagine that a financial penalty is appropriate prior to authorisation. He also says that providers who have perceived their offer are not eligible for a licence. I wonder if that will get hands and feet. Is it really going to happen that those providers who have not complied with the rules will not be granted a licence? The acceptance of the illegal offer in recent years also makes us fear for the Ksa's enforcement capacity, which has not been completed so far. Will organisations that didn't follow the rules be rewarded with a permit? The next stage has actually already entered. Systematic law-breaking organizations are currently blackmailing the sports world and politics. I refer to the recent sports deal of a gambling provider with the Dutch Wielrenbond, including as a condition, as blackmail, that the tax rate would not be reduced by the Lower House. Can the government go into this in detail again? What has the Ksa actually done in the last few years in the enforcement of these foreign providers? Have any warning letters been sent? Have they been contacted? What's gonna happen later? I've already asked. Are financial sanctions imposed? Can the crimes be paid off soon? It soon becomes clear to the visitor of the website gamingzion.com that there are 62 sites on which the language is Dutch and the offer is aimed at the Dutch market. 62 providers are behind that! What happened to that? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that not one of these 62 suppliers will be licensed soon? This bill is also contrary to a motion of mine adopted by the Chamber asking the government to ensure that an online provider has an establishment in the Netherlands. For example, Internet service providers actually have something to lose. You might want to take them in a little bit. However, the government opens the door to suppliers of the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man. However, we want them to establish themselves physically here. Let me take another example, the computer crime III bill. This makes it clear how difficult it will be to get a real grip on web services established in other countries. The Secretary of State says so himself. The handling of suspicions is then very difficult. I think the Secretary of State will confirm that. Exchange of data and administrative enforcement would only be done on a voluntary basis. But, yeah, that's totally unenforceable, isn't it? An advantage of a physical location is that a link can also be made with a registration. If in doubt, you could report to the physical location. She may also help prevent children from eventually playing online with copies of their parents' ID and their parents' account number. What does the government really think about that? Then there's the commercials. The bill is also contrary to the Segers/Mei li Vos motion adopted. It was about advertising. It shouldn't be. It should be avoided that open TV channels could broadcast gambling programs. And now it is actually said that only advertising will be allowed between 7 p.m. and 6 p.m. and not aimed at young people under the age of 24. I am actually looking at Mr Van Wijngaarden. Does he have anything against that 24-year-old limit? That's not 18 years either. The 24-year-old limit is bullshit, isn't it? It's there, and I think that's not for nothing. But it can go much further. According to the government, advertising is a necessary tool to guide players to the legal offer. I think that's wishful thinking. We are also very worried about the bonuses. I believe that the SGP also made a point of this. I'm talking about providing free toys that attract new players to providers. Don't you get players who can end up getting addicted to the game? The government does not want to ban this, because it is international practice and contributes to achieving that degree of channelization. The government is remarkably neutral even against any growth in the number of recreational players as a result of the legislation, as long as it does not lead to an increase in the risky players, the problem players. But, as the Secretary of State says, consumer spending patterns are changing. But if you open the door to more recreants, isn't the risk of addiction much greater? You shouldn't want to take that chance. It turned out to me that the sponsor relationship is a sensitive issue. It concerns online providers and sports clubs. NOC*NSF has previously indicated that it would actually want there to be no relationship between the clubs and the one who ultimately offers the game. It wants this to prevent any appearance of conflict of interest and also reduce the risk of match fixing. It was the idea of NOC*NSF. That organization has come to us and has indicated this in a hearing. Next, and I think that is something you should welcome, the KNVB has also expressed itself on this issue. The KNVB has thought: let's not pour it into a legal arrangement, let's make a code. The KNVB has been able to convince NOC*NSF of this. Unfortunately, the CDA Group is not yet convinced of this. Why not? It's a very noble endeavour. I believe that, in this sense, we, as Chambers, too, stand side by side with our important sports associations to see how we can keep that sportsmanship in play and prevent misbehavior. But I'm afraid you're not gonna solve that with just a code. If you look closely at the advice of the Council of State, you read that the Council of State says: even from a Ksa, even from a supervisor with the razor-sharp teeth we give her, we wonder if it can be sufficiently enforced. We must not forget that the Ksa will be able to invade a home to take care of business. He's got a lot to do! And then we finally say: we can achieve almost the same thing with a code, a code to curb people who have previously shown that they are disregardful of our legislation. That frightens us. That is why we have tabled an amendment to strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u62	I'm hooking on match fixing. Could Mrs Van Toorenburg explain to me the importance of a licence holder to do something about match fixing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u63	I admit that sometimes it becomes some sort of container concept. It's about us not wanting that conflict of interest. You shouldn't want a company offering a game of chance where someone can gamble on the results of a particular football club, at the same time being the main sponsor of that same club and standing on all the billboards along the same field. You are interested in an association on the one hand, you are the main sponsor of it, and on the other hand you send out that you can gamble at your company. I think it's too much intertwined. In fact, you have an interest in the outcome of the gambling game. I don't think you should want that. I don't think you should tie the cat to the bacon. That's what NOC*NSF says. The KNVB also says that. However, they are somewhat hesitant about our solution. They want to do it in a code. I'm thinking, no, a code isn't good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u64	I don't know if I understand correctly, but "interest in match fixing" would assume that you have a financial interest in that. However, I did not hear in Mrs Toorenburg's reply that a marketing authorisation holder has any financial interest in match fixing and that there could therefore be the conflict of interests she claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u65	He has an interest in the outcome of the game, because he has an interest in that football club, for example, because he is a principal sponsor of it. That is what we have been told and I think that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u66	We know the CDA as a party that is committed to care and justice. How careful and just is it now to make a whole group of companies categorically suspicious, just because they would have an interest in something? Just because you have an interest in something doesn't make you a suspect, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u67	No, that's totally true. You're not necessarily suspicious. That is why I say: you must also try to prevent the appearance of conflicts of interest. That is what the sports associations themselves want, but they have chosen a different path. I'm gonna turn it on a little tighter, because if you want to maintain it, it's already very difficult for the Ksa, with those bite nails, let alone with a code without any consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u68	I think Mrs Van Toorenburg deserves the prize tonight for the understatement of the evening. "A little firmer"? The sports unions and the KNVB have simply cut your proposal. They say that we do not want to do so, because this will deprive you of a great deal of opportunities for additional funding. It's unnecessary and careless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u69	I didn't hear it that firm. I had a nice debate this morning with the KNVB. I have also indicated that I am very concerned about this. What concerns me, in particular, is that we actually have some sort of dollar sign in our eyes when we look at sport. We should not want that at all. We must want to watch the game and enjoy the game. We should not just be focused on money, money and money. We have seen in sport where that leads. That's what I'm trying to prevent. This morning it was also said "and actually that was an understatement "we have noticed that match fixing quite a bit." I just called this afternoon: we really don't have a clue how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u70	Mr van Wijngaarden, you have an interruption on another point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u71	Yes. I think we all share the concern regarding match fixing. How does the CDA assess the amendment of VVD and PvdA to introduce a reporting obligation for licence holders in suspicious gambling patterns and to exclude certain game elements that have proven to be highly sensitive to manipulation and match fixing from the gaming offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u72	I thought that was very clever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u73	I am thinking about your amendment and I wonder what the difference is with what we already know. Lotto-Toto will soon be joining the State lottery. The proceeds from this, so the proceeds from betting on sports matches, go to sports as well. How does Mrs Van Toorenburg explain the biggest difference with what we already know?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u74	Maybe there won't be a difference at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u75	So you also think that the Lotto-Toto should be banned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u76	No, maybe you should see how you set the boundaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u77	Can Mrs Van Toorenburg then explain a little more about how to set the limits?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u78	I think this is a very critical point. I think you should take that into account in what I suggested here. Should you want the head sponsor of an association at the same time to be the one offering the games? Maybe you shouldn't want to! Perhaps that is a very good point, a point that we have left behind. Maybe we should take care of that, too. Mr. Chairman. We're gonna go to the charity fundraisers. Several speakers have already mentioned this. According to the Secretary of State, there would actually be no substitution. Nothing would go away from the charities by creating an online market. However, in Denmark, for example, we have seen that this has been the case. The government says, of course, that is what it is doing in relation to the addiction study, which is not right, because it is not right for them. However, it is quite clear that it has just happened in Denmark. The government says: should there be any substitution, it will be considered whether the contribution to sport and to charities can be made compulsory. I wonder if there will be a guarantee of that. I understand that a number of amendments have been tabled. Many amendments have been tabled. There is an amendment from the Labour Party and the VVD to see if the tax rate could be higher. There was then an amendment to consider whether a specific amount could not be passed on. I find that very interesting. We will look into it and we are very curious to see what the Secretary of State thinks about it. Then I come to the concern addiction. That remains a very difficult point. The government rejects the worrying signals from abroad and says that the gambling addiction in Denmark has become many times higher, but that it may not be right at all anymore. The investigation carried out is therefore contested here. I understand that a new investigation is currently under way in Denmark. Perhaps that is why we should wait for the vote on this law so that we can see what is coming out of that new investigation. There is also a very important motion, that of Mr Volp and Mr Bruins Slot, about a zero measurement of this addiction. It is very important to involve this research. There is also Mrs Schouten's motion on reducing the number of risk players. She is right to ask a number of questions about this, which I would like to join. There is no choice in this bill for a personal physical conversation in blocking problem players. They just have to do it with an e-mail or a chat or a pop-up in their screen. And the government is also taking the advice of experts to extend the duration of the exclusion of online gambling for people who are addicted. I regret that and ask the Secretary of State to reconsider it. I understand that players on the licence holder's site can see if that licence holder really has a license and is completely legal. Can the Secretary of State say anything more about that? Is this something of a quality mark? Is that something that appears in your screen? I'd like to know what that looks like. Just a few more questions. It keeps me busy that the Secretary of State says different things at different times about how big the problem really is. At first, he said it was about a million people. Then he talked about 400,000 or 200,000 to 400,000 people. In fact, he is gradually scaling down the problem in such a way that I seriously wonder what we are still dealing with here. With regard to enforcement, I agree with what the Christian Union said about the Ksa. Are we really gonna make it with those couple of dolls over there who, I hope, are gonna do their best to contain this? We have asked for a reduction in the number of providers. I would once again advise the Secretary of State to go that way. Is he willing to do that? I am asking this also in view of the fact that a lot of people here in the Chamber are wondering whether you should continue to issue these licences unbridled. We have made a suggestion on new developments. So we're critical. We have said all this time that modernisation might be possible, but I think that the legislation that is now before us is rather a major liberalisation, which I really wonder if you should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u79	Perhaps I missed it in Mrs Van Toorenburg's speech and she did mention the amendment to ban certain software.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u80	Yes, that was my last comment. That is the amendment that we have come up with. It is in fact in line with the amendment to item No. 17 submitted by the Christian Union. We asked you not to look at those explicit gokaps in the future. We just took a look. My policy officer has shown for a moment that if you test anything, things will show up, even though it's still totally illegal. I think you should stop that. I actually wish you could stop that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u81	Then my timing was correct. Are you actually against getting those gokaps available?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u82	I am against it becoming very easy to get illegal providers on your screen through all those apps. When you buy a computer, you get pieces of illegal providers on it. We absolutely do not want that. There is also a need for action to be taken against this. There must therefore be action not only against a television gambling channel, as the Christian Union's amendment seeks, but also against such offers on the computer or otherwise. That's why we're talking about apps. We've kept it as wide as we can. It can always be refined. Perhaps D66 that is always very clever in that, can contribute something useful to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u83	Then D66 must first understand the amendment and we have difficulty with it. I think the Ksa can stop illegal apps from being downloaded. What does the CDA mean by "The hallmark of these Apps is that they make virtually invisible use of systems on the Internet and therefore hard to block their traffic"? This is in the explanatory statement to the amendment. You've already understood that I'm not technically entirely bleu, but I don't understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u84	When you install an app for a particular game, you also get apps from illegal providers in your screen and they keep coming through. We believe that the Ksa should be able to act more clearly against this. If we can find a way to do that, we would be happy to do so. This is in line with the other amendment that wants to tackle illegal apps. We have tried not to limit the scope to a television screen, but also to extend it to screens like I had in my hand this afternoon. I hope I can get everything that was bounced in there off later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u85	Mr. Chairman. Gambling addiction is apparently a choice for this cabinet. This law allows gambling online. Soon gambling on your gambling app on your mobile phone will be very easy. You can do it at home in your pajamas, at the campsite or anywhere; 24 hours, 7 days a week. There are almost no restrictions and the gambling market also gets the opportunity to promote it properly. If you weren't a gambler, chances are you won't be able to resist temptation if you're offered the apps on a large scale. For a problematic player, that's unfeasible. The fact that the SP Group does not want to go this way is no surprise. Retrieving taxpayers' money seems to be the main objective of the cabinet. That is probably why we still have to deal with this bill before the recess. Unfortunately, the fact that the cabinet is going to spend more money on treating addicts and resolving debt problems is not taken into account. I got very angry when an online gaming boss had the guts to say in the newspaper to the House of Representatives that if online gambling is not quickly legalized foreign gaming companies will withdraw their promise and still advertise on websites. I have a clear message for this threatening delinquent. The Second Chamber and also the First Chamber, I think, are not blackmailable at all. In addition, in the Netherlands you simply have to abide by the law. I hope that the Secretary of State agrees with the SP and will confirm this once again. We're not blackmailable. This is not just an introduction. It is clear that the SP does not agree with the idea of opening up the online gambling market. This is particularly true when you see that in recent years there has been little or no enforcement. This does not mean that we have not looked at the law and have looked at how we can make improvements. Of course, we also have a number of pressing questions, which I shall now come to. As has been said, it would have been much wiser to really enforce the illegal gambling market in recent years. On the Internet or on your digital TV you are regularly confronted with advertising from illegal providers, because so far they are still advertising. The Internet is full of providers, but it is not yet possible to take action against them. This will only happen after this law has been introduced. That is, of course, too late and it is the reverse world. You will first have to act and maintain and then see if regulation is still necessary. The current practice has become completely out of control in such a way that the Secretary of State himself also says that he is going for an 80% channeling rate. This Secretary of State finds that successful. Can he explain what will be successful if one out of five illegal providers fails to monitor and control? Is that successful? Then I come to a good example of why enforcement is not working. The SP has been concerned for a long time about facilitating the illegal offer by banks. They should refuse payments to illegal websites. At the request of even my former colleague, Jan de Wit, the Ministry finally sent a blacklist of organizations without permits to the Dutch Association of Banks. However, it did not forward it to its members. The request to not facilitate illegal providers ended. In 2011 I decided to table a motion asking the government to ensure that banks could no longer do business with parties offering illegal gambling on the Internet. This motion has also been passed. Five years later, however, you can pay with even greater ease, with iDEAL, just with your own bank, at all kinds of illegal providers. How is that possible? That's not implementing my adopted motion, is it? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that illegal providers are no longer able to pay with iDEAL and with your own bank? Look at the witch hunt that opened this cabinet on pot growing. The illegal providers are being prosecuted in full. However, online gambling is still open to providers. Suppliers of these have received adorable warning letters in the past, in which, for example, they were not allowed to offer their website in the Dutch language or that they were not allowed to offer them. may have as domain name. If they didn't follow this warning, they might get a fine. There is no warning or administrative penalty in the policy on weed cultivation. That's just where the harsh criminal law is applied. Whether you agree with that or not, the Secretary of State must agree with me that this is in stark contrast to the warning system and the administrative penalties that are likely to be a joke for a lot of gamblers. I am here today arguing that it should be and-and: not only imposing administrative fines, but also looking at criminal law where necessary. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I'll come back on the... nl domain name or. en-Extension. Knowing that this law will still have a majority, there are some improvements to be made. For example, the SP seems desirable to later the legal providers under one. nl extension. The Secretary of State did not choose to do so, but the reason for this was not entirely clear to me in the reply. The use of... nl as an extension has a number of advantages. First of all, it provides clarity for consumers: they can then see very clearly whether or not a supplier is legal. And you can also maintain better, because it is also clear to the Ksa: if you are legal, you have one. en-Extension. In Belgium, the Gaming Authority itself requested this. I wonder why that did not happen in the Netherlands. Some time ago, we had a big debate about the fact that the Gaming Authority should be an authority with teeth. Two major concerns remain. For example, if you look at the Ksa's enforcement role, the Ksa has no strong teeth at all for dealing with illegal practices with 4.3 fte, but actually baby teeth. This while the Secretary of State himself points out that the enforcement of the illegal offer is very difficult and there will soon be no monitoring of one out of five illegal providers. Why doesn't the Secretary of State give the Ksa sufficient human strength for this? For the Ksa, tackling the illegal market is much easier in Europe itself. The CIB can impose a penalty payment within Europe, but what about outside Europe? We know that some illegal providers have a whole Christmas tree of opaque businesses and mailbox companies in exotic places. Can we even maintain that? It would be nice if the CJIB could also collect fines outside Europe. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. As far as enforcement is concerned, I am very concerned about the islands of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten; the VVD Group has already spoken about it. On these islands there is a huge gambling industry that does not comply with the law. The criminal underworld here has a strong connection with the gambling industry. Money is laundered in casinos and via gambling sites. The islands are also increasingly being used to avoid tax. The gambling industry is eager to use that too. Since 2000, this has taken a huge flight thanks to increasing digitalisation. Some 400 illegal gambling sites are currently run on Curaçao. There's no control. This is because both countries are autonomous countries within the Kingdom of the Netherlands. However, the Netherlands is held responsible internationally for the abuses, because according to the Kingdom's Statute, the Kingdom must ensure human rights, legal certainty and good governance. That there is no such thing, let us be clear. How is the Secretary of State going to help here, so that the islands are able to solve this problem? As a result of the Van Raak/Bosman motion, the SP and the VVD already have a team of special researchers active on the islands. This helps to detect and tackle criminal activities and gambling practices. However, the Gaming Authority, especially the expert party in this matter, is not a party. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the knowledge and expertise of the Gaming Authority? I come to the subject of advertising. A lot has been said about that. With the opening of the market, this cabinet also makes it possible to place more advertisements. No one here will be surprised that we are not very much in favour of this. The Secretary of State responds in response to our questions that he thinks advertising will not lead to a larger market. With that he himself has a very special glass ball in his hand, or perhaps a little bit of a plate for his head. Indeed, the WODC says that creating an attractive offer and allowing advertising will create more players and thus create additional growth in the gambling market. The SP wants to limit the use of advertising as much as possible. That is why we ourselves have made an amendment which aligns gambling advertising with advertising for alcohol. A similar amendment on advertising limitation will therefore support the SP. In particular, I would like to mention the Segers amendment, which also aims to prevent phone games and gambling advertising on TV. This is also an old proposal from Mr De Wit, who unfortunately left the Chamber, although it might be good for him, because he needed his pension. I would like to mention this, because I think this is a very nice amendment. There is also a very clever amendment from the CDA Group, which has just been the subject of an interrupting debate. We support that, of course. An online provider is supposed to check whether the person gambling on the site is also of age. How this works and what requirements there are does not make it so clear to me. Perhaps the Secretary of State could elaborate on this. How do we prevent a minor from gambling on his parents' credit card? Now I know that various countries use, for example, citizen service numbers and passport data. In the pub, an ID-coin checks the age at, for example, cigarette vending machines. I know an e-coin is being worked on; I think it's called "e-ID." But is that safe enough? I'm wondering. We do not want, as I said to the spokeswoman of D66, that providers all get personal data in their hands. Can the Secretary of State respond to these concerns? When dealing with the Remote Gambling and Gambling Act on the Internet, we do not escape talking about sport: combating manipulation and financing. Sport is used by the gambling market, so it should be something against that. If we don't set rules for gambling at sports games, then there are big risks. Think match fixing. That is unfair influence on sports competitions to make a lot of money from that. Sports competitions should be decided on the field, on the track or on the road and not on the gambling market. If we do nothing about a phenomenon such as match fixing, then it takes on great proportions and people lose confidence. Where that can lead to, you can already see in some Asian countries. The stands are empty there because people don't think they're watching sports, but rather a play. We don't want that. The integrity of sport is important. We can expect fair play. We therefore support all the amendments in this direction which help to prevent the influence of sport and match fixing. The same applies to the payment of the gambling sector to sport. Whether or not you like the liberalization of the gambling market, the proposal will at least come from this Chamber. If it is because of this Chamber, we will also support the amendment of the VVD and the Labour Party in which this is regulated. I want to talk briefly about the lotteries. What I find strange about this bill is that lotteries will soon be able to offer other games of chance. In practice, lotteries can also use their current database of players and bet for other games of chance. The SP is not in favour of that. We have therefore tabled an amendment which provides that licences holders for one type of game of chance may not use the database of the data they have collected for other types of games of chance. I read in the Secretary of State's letter that he will shortly adopt new policy rules for charity lotteries. As the D66 spokesman said, we do not always see policy rules. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send these policies to the Chamber? Because I'm very curious about that. I would like to focus briefly on the Central Register Exclusion Gaming. That's what came up in connection with the Kooiman motion. The VVD has now tabled an amendment that virtually breaks it down. Of course, I'm not happy about that. This totally ignores the objective of the motion to protect players. However, there is a concern in the amendment that I share. That's about the slot machines in the hospitality and in the hotels. The VVD says that people might turn to that. The CRUKS does not apply to this at all. I must admit that the VVD has a point there, but the amendment does not entirely provide the solution. It eliminates CRUKS and the protection of players and places the responsibility on the market. It is a little too far for me to leave it all to the market and the marketing authorisation holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u86	Mrs Kooiman has spoken out loud and clearly about my amendments. I would like to clarify something. There are two amendments. There is one amendment in which CRUKS is actually fully maintained, because a majority of the House has said that CRUKS must be put in place. The only thing we propose in the latest version of the amendment is to give play halls the room to determine whether there is a problem in playing behaviour in a way other than by carrying out access checks everywhere. That's one. Many parties have expressed their support for the involuntary exclusion tonight. We can also count seats. We have therefore watered that amendment down in the direction of Mrs Kooiman by saying that it remains in place, but we do want to see policy rules that ensure that it is applied with restraint and as an ultimatum remedium. Is Mrs Kooiman a little milder or positive about both or one of the two amendments now that she has heard this clarification and is aware of these changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u87	I certainly agree with the VVD that you need to make sure that people get as much voluntary help as possible. I sometimes wonder whether forcing people to do so by putting them in such a register is the right way to go. I'm struggling with that because I want to protect players, too. I hope the Secretary of State will listen very carefully to this struggle, because I hope he will help us and take care of us. I can also go along with the gateways to play halls, but I find it very difficult to place the responsibility on the market, while the role of the market is very non-binding. I would also like to see more restrictions there. So I am not entirely unwilling to accept the amendment, although it is a slightly different interpretation than I had originally thought of. I can also see that the practice sometimes causes some problems. I hope the Secretary of State has listened enough so that he knows what my troubles are. I'm struggling a lot, so I'm putting that right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u88	Let me express the ambition to put Mrs Kooiman out of her struggle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u89	You don't get an offer like that every day, Mrs. Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u90	I am completely distraught, but I have one more point: prevention. This is one of the most important issues: combating addiction. We all know that opening up the market will lead to more gambling addicts. That's one reason the SP is so critical of this law. The question is what we can do to combat addictions as much as possible. An important player is the addiction fund that should play an important role in research, guidance to care, offering anonymous treatments and treatment itself. The question is how exactly the Secretary of State sees this fund and whether this should only be done by the current ggz providers. These do a lot of good work and should definitely get a place in the care component. My particular concern is that independent research cannot always be done by the industry itself. Unfortunately, the practice also shows that the current providers have not always succeeded in leading to care. I think it is very good to broaden our eyes and I would like to hear the response of the Secretary of State. Online providers should contribute 0.5% of the gross playing result to the fund. To be honest, I think that's a joke. Given the huge risk of more addicts being taken by this law and the need for prevention, 0.5% is really not enough. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling for 1% of the gross playing result to be contributed to the fund. That is still very minimal, but a doubling. Providers take real responsibility for this. A good thing, I think. I also wonder why a level playing field has not been created in this area. Why do the lotteries and land based offers not contribute to the addiction fund? After all, they also have a responsibility. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State feels about this. To this end, I have tabled an amendment. I understand that it is a very difficult amendment. The Secretary of State laughs, I think he thought it was a very difficult amendment himself. So I would like to hear his reaction to this, because I think that a level playing field should apply here too. It's a long argument. After all, we have been working on this law for a long time and there are many questions. I wish the Secretary of State and the officials concerned every success in answering all these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u91	We've heard a lot about the addiction fund. There are great ambitions for the fund. I think that's very good. How much money does the SP think is ultimately needed for the addiction fund? There doesn't have to be more money in the fund than it needs to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u92	I think 1% is really super sweet. I thought I was proposing a very cute amendment. I cannot imagine that I might be the savior of the VVD group saying: yes, indeed, we are going along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u93	I can hardly resist such tempting words. It's just not an answer to my question. You need a certain addiction care. There's a price to be paid. The percentage can be infinite. One can think of broadening the tax base, as proposed in the other amendment. Then you solve the problem, too. The question is what amount of money should we go to?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u94	That's incredibly hard to say. If we adopt this law, at least we can count on more gambling addicts. We also know that we don't reach a large number of players. I hope that the fund will also provide a better lead, that you will be there earlier and that more research can be done. In our opinion, the fund cannot be large enough. Actually, I'm hoping I can get the VVD on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u95	I understand that you have another question, Mr Van Wijngaarden. You're gonna save them a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u96	I propose that Mrs Kooiman ask the Secretary of State, having heard the great ambitions of the addiction fund, to identify what should be a more ambitious objective and how to cover it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u97	I'm a security and justice spokesperson. My experience with this cabinet is that it often estimates and estimates the costs a little lower and that at some point more money is always needed. I'll make sure of that. I'm making a nice amendment. The VVD can't disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u98	Mr. Chairman. The closed system of the current Gaming Act dates back to 1964, i.e. from the last century. It is therefore no surprise that online gambling is not regulated. The government agreement states that gambling policy must be modernised and that strict regulation of online gambling must take place. We're discussing that bill today. It is the second step in modernising gaming policy. According to the bill, games of chance are remote games in which the player participates with electronic means of communication and without physical contact with the organizer of the games of chance. As I said, these online gambling games will be strictly regulated according to the bill. It is not intended to create a new offer of games of chance. The aim is to channel the question that exists now or can arise in the future. The measures of the bill are expected to channel 80% of current demand by the government, which means that 80% of current participants are expected to make use of the legalised offer provided by the bill and thus no longer of the illegal supply. Gambling policy focuses on three issues: firstly, preventing gambling addiction, secondly, protecting consumers and thirdly, combating fraud and other crime. Game providers must apply for a licence. Such authorisation shall be subject to conditions in the interest, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, of a responsible, reliable and verifiable organisation of the games of chance offered. The Gaming Authority, which was the first step in modernising gaming policy, is empowered to grant the licence and will be given more enforcement tools, as stated in Articles 34c and beyond of the bill, to monitor and enforce compliance with the permit conditions. The holder of the licence may then only offer games of chance to participants who have completed a player profile indicating the limits of the player's own playing behaviour. In the event of an imminent overrun, the player is warned and, in the event of an actual overrun, the participant is excluded from participation for a minimum of six months. In this context there will be a Central Register Exclusions Gaming, the CRUKS. The holder of the licence must determine the identity and age of the player before the player may be registered. Minors are excluded from participating in remote gaming. In order to protect the consumer, the game system must have been approved by an accredited body designated by the Ministry of Security and Justice. The MAH should point out the risk of play addiction to participants. Furthermore, providers should be capital companies with a registered office or a principal place of business in the EU or the European Economic Area. Management must be organised in such a way as to ensure compliance with the permit requirements. In order to prevent fraud and crime, such as match fixing and money laundering, different gambling patterns should be noted through a systematic analysis of transactions. Sports betting requires providers to participate in a European Sports Security Association (ESSA) detection system, the cooperation set up by providers in the European Union. Furthermore, it is forbidden to bet on youth competitions. A side effect of this bill is that tax revenues are expected to increase by about 150 million, at least: so I have been informed. That amount is used for payments to charities and to sport. Providers also have to pay part of the addiction fund because there is no cover for any increase in the number of addicts who need help from the ggz. This is a very long introduction, but it is also a very comprehensive bill. After that long introduction I come to the position of my group and I can be a lot shorter on that. My group agrees in principle with the legislative proposal. A regulatory framework is needed. There are hundreds of thousands of people gambling in the illegal circuit. All of these amendments, and there really are a lot of them, we will look at them more closely and assess them on the basis of these criteria. Regulation is necessary, but there is simply a question. My group is in principle in favour of regulating it with this bill. We also do not want to be blind to the participant's own responsibility, which is in principle paramount. In my group's view, sufficient safeguards have been included in the legislative proposal in principle. Then there's another point. There has been a lot of discussion about two parts. First of all, the difference in the tax rate. The gambling tax (KSB rate) is levied on the provider. The base for that charge is the gross game result, i.e. the deposit minus the prizes, as well as the remuneration for giving an opportunity to participate in games of chance. Online providers are subject to a rate of 20% of the deposit, and so-called land-based providers are subject to a higher rate, i.e. 29% of the deposit. That's a tricky point. My group understands the lower tax rate for online gambling. If they are to be an alternative to illegal online providers, they must be attractive. There is a lot of competition on the Internet. My group also understands that this could mean for the country-specific provider that their business may move to online providers, because they can earn more profit there. The best option therefore seems to be an equal rate for both providers. An increase in the proposed ROB rate for online games from 20% to 29% has the risk of continuing to use the illegal offer, so that the so-called channelisation rate desired by the Cabinet is not expected to be reached. My group is therefore curious to see what the Secretary of State thinks of the amendment that has been tabled, with the aim of increasing the rate for online providers to 29%, i.e. an equal rate, for which there is something to be said. That's a tricky point, like I said. We shall allow this to depend for a moment on the opinion of the Secretary of State. It can also be chosen to apply the 20% rate to both land-based and legal providers. Then it goes down again for one club. Then the question is whether that is real. Is the proceeds still sufficient to cover the costs of supervision and enforcement? That's important. As I said, my group agrees with this part of the legislative proposal: monitoring and enforcement. There is also a lot of resistance from the charity lotteries and the sports associations. They expect people to gamble more online. This would have the effect of reducing their revenues. However, research in other countries has shown that this is not the case. The reason for this is that online gamblers and participants in these charity lotteries are other target groups. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the situation in the Netherlands would be different from that in other countries and if so, what would be the cause of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u99	Mr. Chairman. Drinks destroy more than you love. I wrote that last Thursday night when I was sipping a glass of wine. Last Thursday I had my reasons for wanting to drink a glass of wine, because it was the day that Mr. Jo Cox was murdered. I was going to use that evening to at least write the text for this case. So I drank a glass of wine on that gloomy night. Now I can't handle alcohol at all. After two glasses, I get tired and I want to go to sleep. But if you can handle it well, alcohol can be pretty dangerous. In the Netherlands there are almost half a million problem drinkers. Yet we do not ban alcohol, because many people also enjoy it. If you use it in moderation, it can't hurt that much. With the prohibition in America, we still have very bad experiences. They say the prohibition made the mob. You can see where I'm going with this: the equation of gambling. For everyone's information: I have not the patience for games; I have inherited my mother's financial prudence; I have never gambled myself; I have never bought a ticket; I find gambling thrown away money and waste of time. I've seen way too many people in my neighborhood who got into trouble because of gambling. I therefore fully understand Mrs Schouten's plea, Mrs Van Toorenburg's and Mrs Kooijman's arguments that it is not just a game. According to Jellinek we have more than 20,000 problem gamblers in the Netherlands. Other figures have also been mentioned today. It's not just a game. What also bothers me as a left-wing man is that the gambling industry is based on false hope and the financial irrationality of people. I'm mainly talking about the lotteries. Because people like to believe they can get rich from gambling and buying tickets, they spend way too much money on gambling and those tickets. The only one who knows for sure, 100%, becomes rich, is the gambling industry. Gambling looks not only like alcohol, but also like the financial fantasy products that banks have shamelessly sold. Banks also become rich with the kind of gambling with the financial fantasy products. We have strict rules for that, too. However, my group does not think it is wise to ban online gambling as it is now and even to make it criminal. Too many people do it and will want to do it. Then you can regulate it better, as this bill aims to do. At the time, it was also the ratio behind the creation of a state casino, namely Holland Casino. As far as the PvdA is concerned, regulation is therefore the key word in the treatment of the Remote Gambling Act, and not liberalization. We are not going along with the strange idea that Europe should do it because it is good for the European market. The European market is about people's well-being and well-being and not about releasing an industry that you can question. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the gambling market is not part of the single European market and it does not make us more prosperous. It's not normal business, like I said. It is based on the irrationality of people and false hope. It does not contribute to well-being, such as other parts of the creative industry where it is officially covered, but it does. You enjoy music, you don't enjoy a gambling addiction. From now on, if we are going to issue permits to the companies to offer gambling games in the Netherlands, it is not to liberalise the market, but to impose rules underground, and very strict rules as far as we are concerned. Nor will we radically open up that market. That is the big mistake that Denmark has made. They're going through a lot of trouble right now. There the number of problem gamblers has increased enormously and that spirit is hard to get into the bottle. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we are going to be very careful, step by step, follow developments, monitor the number of problem gamblers and even monitor the number of gamblers and only allow game forms when we know how they work and how addictive they are. That should be what the PvdA should be the principle behind this law. So we should rather be a little too careful about regulating gambling rather than being too careless. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he agrees with the PvdA that we are going to regulate and not liberalise, which was discussed a few days ago. Does he think that the strategy of moving on with careful, small steps and not going on until you know what's going on is sensible? A number of colleagues have already mentioned that we do not know a lot of things yet. Does he wish to put aside the complaints made by some companies that the conditions of authorisation will be too strict or the time for award is too tight until he knows for sure how the market is developing? We all had that mail in our mailbox. We have a number of proposals to tighten up this law. Let me begin with the main concern of the PvdA: the prevention of gambling problems. That is also the concern of the CDA, the Christian Union, the SP and also the SGP. The current legislative proposal establishes a fund which, according to Article 33e, can be funded by research and anonymous assistance to addictive gambling companies. That is a good development; that was not yet in it. However, it is not clear to us how much there will be in that fund. We were just having a discussion about this with Mr Kooiman. How much money are we talking about? What's the Secretary of State's estimate? How much money will we need to do what we want with that addiction fund? So that fund is a great improvement, because it is now quite difficult for gamblers to find help quickly and anonymously, also because they know it is illegal. But what the fund does not provide for is the prevention of gambling addiction through independent information and a helpline, for example for 24 hours, where gamblers or their neighbors can call if they feel that it is going wrong. So there is now a treatment gap: the number of people with problems is many times greater than the number of people seeking help and being treated. People often do that too late, because they are ashamed or unable to find their way, and probably also because online gambling is still illegal. We want people to get help sooner and find it before it's too late. Prevention is always better than cure. If you want to avoid misery by gambling as much as possible, you have to invest in preventing problems. That can be done if people quickly, free and anonymously can ring the bell if they think they are gambling too much or too long or otherwise get into trouble. With a very limited investment in a 24-hour helpline, we can help to avoid these problems. The Jellinek Institute wants them, too. You can just call there if you get in trouble with gambling. Because people often gamble deep into the night, it is really necessary that that line is manned 7 days a week and 24 hours a day. The additional cost for the helpline is estimated at €250,000. We would like him to be financed from that addiction fund. We have written that down in an amendment. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to that amendment. In order to help people quickly if it becomes problematic or if they want to seek help themselves, the PvdA wants to make it even easier to find help by putting a kind of button on each gambling website; a button that you can click if you notice you're getting into trouble. That button then leads people to independent addiction care agencies, and also to that 24-hour help line. And once you press that button, you can't go back to what you were doing with the backspace button either. You are really in an environment where you can be helped and talk about your problems, chat or whatever. We don't want to force people to seek help, but we can make it easier for them to find help. We believe that with that button, and the impossibility of going back, a small barrier or help is built in for people with whom they can help themselves. We specifically ask the Secretary of State if he would like to include such a help button or button in the forthcoming lower regulations on permit conditions. So it is also mainly intended that you cannot go back to the page of the gambling site with the backspace key.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u100	At the risk of my question being premature, I would like to ask you the following. In fact, I hear you very hesitant about this law, even though it is a coalition law. You are talking about monitors, cautious little steps, a fund and a button on the websites. How do you see the obligation of care of the marketing authorisation holders in the context of prevention as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u101	I'll have to think about golden-egged chickens. Of course, those marketing authorisation holders have a duty of care. You can already see that on those websites, where you can always find a page on which to chat and the like. But putting that duty of care all the way with the licence holders... They will all be of very good will, but with that you actually ask them to slaughter their chickens with golden eggs. They would do that if they were really going to be very effective in helping people who gamble too much. That's why I want one of those buttons on their websites that leads people away from the license holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u102	What does the PvdA expect of this duty of care and its further implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u103	You also need to arrange them as closely as possible and as tightly as possible. In addition, we want the independent addiction care agency to be able to be sidelined and that problem gamblers can be led there quickly. This seems to us to be a sensible strategy, also in the context of cautious progress and the major problem we see about gambling addiction. We have another way of helping people with problems and preventing people from getting into trouble: showing pop-ups while playing. It now says in the proposal that you can be warned by the authorisation holder by e-mails. While you're playing, however, you're not going to check your e-mail. At least that seems very rigid to me. When you sign up, you have to report how much money you put in it. While playing, they must then jump up. You know how annoying pop-ups can be to warn you. There's a limit to the amount you can gamble a day anyway. As far as we are concerned, there is also a time limit. A pop-up might warn you: say, you said you wanted to gamble up to an hour a day; that hour is now reached. A pop-up seems to us to be an effective, not too invasive tool to help people who gamble to keep their own limit. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this plea and I wonder if he would like to include this in the lower regulation. Article 31m describes how gambling companies should monitor and alert players. An AMvB has been announced for it. We would like to see this again in this AMvB. We would also like to see players indicate a time limit. I wonder if that's how the Secretary of State's gonna work it out. I fully agree with Mrs Schouten, who proposes that we see this AMvB before it comes into force, so that we can also talk about it. A lot has been said about gambling advertising. The intention of advertising under this law is to remind people of the legal offer. The advertising shouldn't tempt people who haven't gambled yet to gamble. That is quite difficult, especially if you leave the content of the advertising to the providers of gambling games. We therefore propose to place a warning under any gambling advertising, similar to the advertising of financial products, tobacco and alcohol. It will need to warn against the dangers of gambling. For financial products this is done with the male, which is bent deeper and deeper as the product becomes more risky. This works fairly well and is well maintained by the AFM. I see that we can do that, and I would also like to see it in advertising for gambling, in whatever form, online, TV and radio. We would also like to see this reflected in the lower regulation of advertising. The warning must be drawn up by an independent institution for addiction care. I am thinking of foundation AGOG, the union for anonymous gamblers, where people know damn well what gamblers are sensitive to. I think that's the kind of club that has to write the lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u104	I'm learning a lot tonight, because I didn't know it meant how far that guy bends over the financial products.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u105	Then you're the only one in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u106	I hear Mrs Helder didn't know that either. So I'm in good company. I have a question about the warning in gambling advertising, which I find understandable in itself. Is it not reasonable to involve the gambling companies at any time in drawing up that warning?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u107	Then I'd like to define that involvement very scaryly. They can look at it, but I want the text to be drawn up by independent experts in the field of addiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u108	I assume that the Labour Party also believes that we should respect the principles of good governance in the public domain and hence decisions that affect stakeholders, which should at least involve stakeholders in a serious way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u109	I would say: we inform them that this text comes underneath. That's what happened to that guy. That is what the AFM has drawn up, and that works very well, precisely because it has been prepared by independent experts. There is another measure that we should take in order to proceed with caution. I have an example from my personal life. I was at a casino in San Remo once. We were cycling there and my friend asked if he could please go into that casino. He promised me he wouldn't stay in for long. I then managed to get us to go out right after his first win, and then I could eat lobster. Okay, that was a deal. He went into the casino and I went after him. I've been looking out for my eyes, not that! Of course, the ball went into the box that my friend had chosen the first time. We won $50, and I said, ready, let's go! Of course, he was very disappointed. I think that's exactly what gaming companies and casinos do: they let you win the first time, so you get sucked in. Luckily I had a brake built in and then I went to eat lobster in San Remo. My friend didn't forgive me until much later, but I think I finally got it right. That is exactly what we have to do with all these win-win games, with regard to all those advertising games and practice games, as they are called. A practice game, you can check! The PvdA has already tabled an amendment to the Law on the Establishment of the Gaming Authority aimed at requiring lotteries to report on their chances of winning in advertising. You have to be able to see clearly that the chances of you becoming rich from fate are as great as the chances of you being struck by lightning. That, too, has been very badly maintained by the Ksa and we would like that principle to be continued. We will therefore demand that the lotteries comply with the law and that they state what the chance of winning is. Online practice games are offered. In such a practice game, the chances of winning should not be higher than in the normal game. We would like to see this also regulated in the lower regulation. There should be no practice games with higher chances of winning, because that is exactly the way you are sucked into gambling games. I'm here to talk to you about the supervisor. A lot has been said about that. We can wholeheartedly support the fact that we are also very dissatisfied... I see Mrs Schouten is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u110	I have a question, which I don't know if it belongs in the block of advertising, but I'm gonna give it a try anyway. My question concerns a motion tabled by my colleague Segers together with Mrs Vos on the gambling channels, as they are popularly referred to. Mr Segers has tabled an amendment on this point which is in line with the motion tabled with Mrs Vos, which has been adopted here. What is Mrs Vos' view of the principle of that amendment, which actually expresses the content of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u111	Indeed, I am still opposed to TV channels that are completely decorated on gambling. That motion was drafted after reporting that SBS6 was setting up a gambling station. I'm very opposed to that. I do have one more technical remark. It is an amendment relating to the Media Act, while Mrs Schouten herself said that she prefers it to be incorporated into the Gambling Act. So I think it makes more sense to include that in the gambling law itself. I think they're working on that, too. I am very sympathetic to the amendment. I still think that we absolutely should not want this. I notice that there are fewer and fewer people watching TV. I think the biggest danger still lies in offering online gambling. However, we remain against a gambling station on TV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u112	It's nice to hear that principle is still standing. Then we would like to see whether we can also include the amendment in the gambling law. I will ask Mr Segers to amend the amendment accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u113	I'm gonna move on to the superintendent. Regulate and proceed with caution; the success of this law stands or falls with a good supervisor. Each market needs to be tamed by a strong government and a regulator, but this gambling market already has. A strong supervisor acts with authority, tolerates no offense, rakes ruthlessly fines in and has a view of all the corners and holes of the gambling industry. That's a lot, because it's about the global web. The supervisor also believes in the philosophy of the Chamber about regulating and proceeding with caution. As the Secretary of State knows, and so have the previous Secretary of State, I have asked quite a lot of questions about the supervisory function. The nicest one was a boat from the Orange Casino which was baptized by the partner of the former Secretary of State. I thought the supervisor was acting very laxly. The policy seemed to be a policy of tolerance. That should be an abomination for the VVD, who doesn't like to be tolerated at all. It could be because of the novelty and unwelcomeness and the fact that it is only with this law that the Ksa gets the necessary instruments. That is why I am very much in favour of this law, with the instruments and improvements proposed by the Chamber. My great concern is in the statements of the director of the Ksa, recently at a congress on gambling. That director said that strict enforcement does not outweigh the negative effects of a higher tax rate; my amendment. In other words, the higher rate of taxation is going to be taken into account in the future. It goes along with the gambling lobby, which thinks the rate is too high and threatens to continue to operate illegally if we do not lower the rates; it has just been recalled. It does not consider it sustainable to make a great deal of enforcement efforts. A enforcer who doesn't want to maintain is a toothless tiger. We are therefore concerned about how online gambling is going to be regulated with a supervisor who does not want to make an effort to carry out its main task. In addition, it is strange that a supervisor at a conference with the gambling industry says that she does not think a political wish is feasible. The PvdA is concerned about the Ksa, about how the Ksa will enforce the law and about the Ksa's capacity. The number of FTEs is indeed very little to do so much. Does the Secretary of State share our concerns? If so, what is he going to do about it? If not, why not? I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State's reaction is to the proposals made by my colleagues. It is a rather comprehensive law and it therefore helps to set priorities. I think it's important to prioritize when this law comes into force. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the Ksa will have to focus in the first months or in the first year on cutting off the money flows of the illegal providers. It's all about money, from both the gamblers and the gamblers. If you hit them in the heart, that, I think, will improve enforcement. Banks and credit card companies need to be given instructions. I think it has already been said by Mrs Kooiman and payments to and from illegal providers should be stopped. I believe that this should be the Ksa's priority and that it should use all its expertise and perhaps draw on expertise to do so. That deters the gamblers who still think they can gamble illegally, as well as the illegal providers. At the same time, it shows people on the legal site that it pays to gamble legally. According to the State Secretary, after the regulation, the binding designation "S' contained in Article 34n of the Wok "S' is important in order to address the remaining illegal providers. This binding designation allows the Ksa to require intermediaries, including the paying Internet service providers and platform providers, to discontinue their services to illegal providers and to fine them. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA that tackling payments should be a Ksa's priority? Then there is something that also has to do with enforcement: the. en-Extension. The government doesn't want to embrace the suggestion to be alone. to allow nl extensions for marketing authorisation holders. According to the government, one is allowed. com extension, one. TV extension or one. Nu-Extension too, because the rules and enforcement are becoming tight. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to think about that other consideration. We make this law for the vast majority of the Dutch who gamble. They know the ones. en-Extension. I've been told by the Internet service providers that one. nl-ext. The majority of Dutch people like to know that what they do is legal, that they are protected from malicious practices and can seek help if things go wrong. The point is, if you gamble on a site with one. nl extension, know you're legally gambling. That could be part of the permit conditions: if you want a permit, you have to have one. use nl extension. What does the Secretary of State think of this idea? Isn't he willing to do the obligation of one after all. nl extension to be included in the law or in an AMvB? I'll get to the tax rate. I just said it and I can be brief about that. It is absurd to apply two different rates for exactly the same activity. The examples have already been mentioned. I can be brief about it. Since the beginning, we have found it strange that foreign suppliers should pay a lower rate than ordinary, good Dutch companies. I think that even the PVV group agrees with us on this point: it is not fair that foreign companies should pay less. That's why we're even. The amendment is already in the coalition agreement, so we are back to the coalition agreement. Gambling is gambling, whether you do it in an arcade, in a casino or at home. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks of our amendment. Then there is the lower regulation, especially the one on licensing. Crucial for regulating online gambling are the requirements for a permit. They are regulated by lower regulations. I understand that, but it's very important to talk about that with all of us. I've just made a few suggestions. We must be able to assess the criteria and that system. I therefore wholeheartedly endorse Mrs Schouten's wish that we should be able to see this AMvB and that there should be a pending procedure. Perhaps in his term, the Secretary of State can outline a little bit of what these criteria will look like. That seems very important to me to know for this Chamber to be able to judge this bill. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, the past of the candidates is also important. The motion-Building Master c.s. Has just been mentioned. It asked the government to refuse a licence to suppliers who did not pass the Bibob test. That seems clear to us, as does the considerations contained in the motion. I am curious to see how the Secretary of State will take into account that wish of the Chamber in his criteria for granting a licence. They have to prove that they do addiction prevention, they have to pay taxes, they have to contribute to the fund, but their past is also important. Mr Van Toorenburg mentioned the list. 62 websites currently offer in Dutch. It seems to me that they can't get a permit. Can the Secretary of State tell us about the criteria? We would like to interfere with that. I'm almost at the end of my speech. The zero reading. In order to follow developments in online gambling and to be able to proceed with caution, it is very good and very important to know how we stand now. There must be a very precise zero measurement. We want to know how many gamblers there are now, how many problem gamblers there are, how many addicts there are and how these numbers develop as soon as this law enters into force. I am very curious, for example, whether to date loyal lottery players will then switch to online games. It is a fear which is shared, but which has not yet been confirmed by unambiguous research. The zero measurement that is now being done should be conclusive in this respect. That measurement is now being made and would be there in the first half of 2016. So that's now, in a couple of weeks. Could this zero measurement possibly be achieved before we continue to deal with this bill? We do not want to see what the developments are too long after this law enters into force. That should not happen too soon after entry, because you want to give the law time to crystallize. I think a follow-up after two years makes sense, and then every four years. What does the Secretary of State think of that rhythm? Is he willing to hold on to that? My final point is the criminality of gambling on illegal sites. It's clear now. Under the current Wok, anyone who gambles online is a criminal offence. This law will therefore ensure that people who start gambling on an authorised website are no longer punishable. But what are we going to do after this law, deo volente, with people who knowingly continue to gamble on illegal sites? Of course, you can say that they have to know for themselves and that, if things go wrong, they have to take the fall for that and, above all, do not have to squeak. But if we do not want the instrument of taking down illegal gambling sites, which is the subject of the D66 amendment, then we need another instrument that will enable the Ksa to maintain. I wonder why illegal gamblers haven't been dealt with so far. It wasn't done symbolically through naming-and-shaming either. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PvdA Group that if a law applies for a while, it is important to deal with those who knowingly and knowingly still illegal gambling? You can probably do that through a lottery ticket, for example by taking the initial of a last name. This seems to us to be an instrument that the Ksa should use as soon as this law arrives. I think it would be a good idea for the people who do take the trouble to fill in everything to be able to gamble legally to see that illegal gambling is being dealt with. Finally. Drinks destroy more than you like and gambles. Yet we drink, yet we smoke and yet we gamble. In the view of the PvdA, people have the freedom to drink, gamble and smoke, but the State may and must point out the dangers and also ensure that people who get into trouble are helped. This must be paid from the money of companies that cause the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u114	In another period I worked a lot with Lea Bouwmeester. If the two of us on this file started working with the Secretary of State, he'd really get stains on his neck. How did that happen? Because we really went against a number of things that made the Secretary of State completely lyrical. We've been able to drag in some nice motions, such as the motion that says you're excluded if you misbehave. I also mention the motion which states that you must be land-based in the Netherlands. These are solid motions that are not being carried out now. Has everything been given away by the PvdA at Wouter Bos' card game in the composition of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u115	Definitely not. At the formation table, it was only the 29% rate. Yes, I am holding on to that now. I propose a large number of measures to regulate online gambling and protect those gamblers. I am very curious about the way in which the Secretary of State will carry out the motion of Members Bouwmeester, Kooiman and Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u116	That's good. That seems to me to be a tough condition, because otherwise the law can never pass through the Chamber. We didn't act like this for nothing. We really said that people who misbehave shouldn't be rewarded. Can't the PvdA just give this away? There has been good thought about the requirement to be land-based. It has also been thought through by people who know very well how to regulate it in Europe. I want to know what's going on with the PvdA. I imagine the PvdA will go along if those two things are taken care of. But if they aren't arranged, will it just be a negative vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u117	I told you, I don't want to vote against this law. I want to vote in favour of all improvements. That is why I am so curious to see how the Secretary of State will respond to the motions that are still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u118	I'm sorry about that. The debates with Mrs Bouwmeester were really hardcore. It is a very good condition that a provider should be land-based. We know what all these Christmas tree constructions with letterbox companies look like. We really can't get a grip on that. It's a very important condition. A motion that is not being carried out is really a tough point in the Chamber. There's a reason we're doing our job here. I'd like to be judged by the PvdA. Is she gonna stand for this? She just wants to take care of this? Does the PvdA say that motion should simply be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u119	That is why I would very much like to know what is in the permit conditions and what the Secretary of State thinks of the requirement that a provider should be land-based. I've heard that when you make that commitment, there's gonna be a small office somewhere on the Zuidas. That is not what we want, namely better control and better enforcement. We want to be able to deal with the illegal offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u120	That is why, of course, we must also tackle the mailbox companies on the Zuidas. I think that's a good one. I have another question. A proposal has been made to act against pop-up advertisements. I wonder if that'll help. I would like to hear from Mrs Vos to what extent that will work and on what basis she will do so. The Ksa should set up that 24-hour window. I don't want to pin the Ksa down at that point. How does Mrs. Vos see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u121	That about the pop-up advertising comes from a scientific research that I got through Jellinek from a professor whose name I just forgot. It looked very convincing. Pop-ups It's not for nothing that advertisements work with that... are a very effective way to remember and warn people. I can send in that investigation. What was the second question about again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u122	It's late at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u123	It was about setting up that 24-hour window.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u124	I'd rather not let the Ksa do that, because he's already busy enough. I prefer to place this with bodies like the Jellinek, the AGOG and the Trimbos Institute, which already have a lot of experience with addictions and are therefore much better equipped for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u125	Mrs Vos outlined her struggle with the legislative proposal in her contribution and mentioned points that could be improved. I hear her looking for ways in which we can improve the situation. Actually, I'd like to hang a little more than the bill. If Mrs Vos had been in charge all by herself, would she have submitted it this way? Is she really convinced that this bill will lead to fewer gambling addicts?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u126	My answer to the first question is that I had tabled this bill, but quite different. The legislative proposal has, of course, been substantially amended in recent years. It has gone from the very free Danish model to a much more cautious model with all the changes that we have proposed and which we hope will be adopted. I certainly would have filed it. I do not think it is acceptable for so many people to gamble illegally, for there is nothing for them and for us to allow this situation, this twilight zone, to exist. I would have made that bill myself, surely. There was a second question. I'm really bad at that late at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u127	It's late. Could you briefly repeat the second part of the question, Mrs Schouten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u128	I asked if Mrs Vos is really convinced that the bill will lead to fewer gambling addicts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u129	I don't know. I can see that now there are only more gambling addicts, precisely because of the huge range in games. There's a very thin separation between ordinary games like Candy Crush and gambling. I can see that in children, too. I see how my own kid gets offered Disney games on the iPad that look a lot like a slot machine. If we do nothing and do not regulate it, the number of gambling addicts will rise anyway. I'll take a chance. Mrs Schouten is quite right about that. With the instruments we use and the adaptation of all addiction care, I do hope that we can control the number of gambling addicts. Therefore, the zero measurement, the permanent monitoring and the rapid switching of the PvdA are very important. Doing nothing is not an option, because then I can only see it rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u130	It is often suggested that there are only two options, namely not regulation or total release. In my speech, also in response to questions from Mrs Vos, I have already asked why we are not simply going to make a full commitment to the policy of discouragement and enforcement. Why aren't we gonna do a lot more to deal with these illegal gambling companies? Why don't we take a look at that? They're just pretending they can't do that at all. In response to what Mrs Vos said. I'm just gonna ask her the question. I think we're both concerned about combating gambling addiction. That is what we want to do. Is it willing to reconsider it if it appears that this law leads to a higher gambling addiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u131	Sure. You always have to do that. We're gonna monitor it all very closely. Suppose the numbers turn out it just doesn't work this way. That seems weird to me, by the way. I call it tolerant of soft drugs, although that is a completely different discussion. If it turns out it doesn't work, and if we know why, we should. We always have to do that with legislation and certainly with this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u132	I'll come back to that nationwide counter. I hear Mrs Vos expressing all kinds of very good ambitions. But do I hear right that she is actually filling out exactly which organisations should be involved? And, if so, does it exclude any other organisations? Surely it is not up to the Chamber to fill that in so much detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u133	Well, I think the Chamber has filled in about everything in detail by motion today. I am referring to the motions that have been tabled today in all the education debates. I do want the Chamber to interfere, yes. I have written in the law the words "independent and representative." So I do not want bodies financed by the gambling companies to maneuver that aid line. I do not usually like contracting, but I can easily imagine that we are here by means of a call for tenders identifying which of the independent non-gambling institutions are going to maneuver the aid line. Which ones exactly, I don't know. That's up to the Ministry or the Game Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u134	I am pleased to note that, according to Mrs Vos, an objective procedure must at least be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u135	Sure. There's even a law that says who's not allowed to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u136	I want to finish a little constructively; that seems nice to me. I was just looking at my own amendment on that sports sponsorship. I thought: maybe I should make it much clearer that it is not about sponsoring sports associations, but specifically about sponsoring the clubs and their players. If we figure that out together, will the Labour Party sign in?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u137	I'm sure I can promise you that I'd like to think along and talk along, but I'm going to sign in? That's always so hard on the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u138	If, in any case, it becomes clear that we are dealing with a conflict of interest, and not so much with the sports federations, so there is not much going on with that, then I think that we might still be able to get the Labour Party with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u139	I support the idea behind the amendment. And that is certainly what my colleague Tjeerd van Dekken is doing, who is also very concerned about match fixing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-06-23-tweedekamer-13.u140	We have come to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. This debate will continue next week. It's on Thursday's agenda for now, but that might change. Tomorrow in the course of the day we hopefully get the final schedule for next week. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence and for listening to the contribution of the Chamber. A large number of amendments have been tabled. Perhaps a few more will follow. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input this evening. I would like to thank the people in the public gallery and those who have followed the debate in a different way for their interest.
