ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet presented the new media policy this morning. The last time the cabinet did this, it was on the Veronica ship. This time it went by tweet from the Home Secretary. Now Mr Plasterk often sends tweets on policy areas and even on ongoing court cases. For example, he recently had to answer for his twitter about the lawsuit against Mr Van Rey. Today he tweeted about the long summer break of the public service broadcaster, of the NPO. I would like to quote him: 'Actuality and debate are no longer a core task for public service broadcasting for a few months. That's crazy, isn't it?" That's what D66 thinks. Everyone knows that politicians are not about programming, but background and opinion are a core public task in the Media Act. Last summer we had the talk shows Jinek or Knevel & Van den Brink. Since statements by directors are on behalf of the cabinet, I have the following questions to the executive who is about them. How will the Secretary of State implement the new cabinet policy? Does he call the NPO to order to complete this core task well this summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Programs always open up a lot of discussion. It is not the first time we have been standing here talking about what can be seen on television or what disappears from television. That's not a change of cabinet policy. I think that Mr Plasterk, as a television fan and also as a fan of talk shows, is just sorry that Pauw disappears for a while. I am a fan of sports myself and I am perhaps very happy with what comes in place for it. I think we all know that Hilversum, within the legal frameworks that have been given to it, is ultimately about programming itself. So there is absolutely no reason to call them to order there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	I was afraid the Secretary of State would give such an answer. It means something, of course. The Home Secretary is tweeting something. Apparently, I now have to conclude that the cabinet does not speak with one voice. There is no unity of cabinet policy. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Plasterk, has once again spoken in turn. He probably thought he was still Buitenhof columnist instead of minister at the Binnenhof. That's odd. I'm worried about that. I hope the Secretary of State will be able to comment on that in a moment. I would also like to comment on the substance of this point. Of course, in the coming months there will be a sports summer. That's a lot of fun, but of course the world is going crazy. Think of a Brexit, presidential elections in Austria and the upcoming presidential elections in America. Fortunately, the newspapers will not stop this summer and we also have the NOS Journal, EenVandaag, Nieuwsuur, RTL and SBS6, but it is weird not to have an opinion programme or a morning news show on the public channel from mid-May onwards. This plays both on the radio and on the television. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Does he agree with D66 that such a long summer stop is a very strange fulfillment of the core task? Is this a good implementation of the core task in the Media Act? Does this justify the hundreds of millions we spend annually on public service broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	I say to both the Secretary of State and Mr Verhoeven that Mr Plasterk is the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	Apologies, President, but the Minister of the Interior speaks on behalf of the cabinet, also on Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	All the qualifications of Mr Verhoeven on the unity of cabinet policy are left to him. In my view, the policy of the cabinet is that we do not talk about the choices made by the NPO in its programming. That is without prejudice to the fact that, as a person, you can sometimes have an opinion on that. I think that is what Mr Plasterk, the Minister for the Interior, wanted to do with sending his tweet. Let us be clear: this summer, too, there is still a lot to be seen on the tube. Mr Verhoeven himself mentioned a number of news and current events programmes. In addition, there is a lot of other news and a lot happens around sports. I refer to the European Football Championship and the Olympic Games, where the Dutch will be trying to win the medals in Rio. I think this is also something that many viewers and listeners are curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	We all know that this Secretary of State at the beginning of his period in this cabinet only wanted one thing, namely a narrow public service broadcasting with a clear focus on the core tasks news and backgrounds. His plans have been greatly watered down over the past few years. We have all been able to see this, but now he is also letting the NPO get away with the fact that entertainment is put above topicality and opinion. That is a point that is not in line with the Media Act, which states precisely that the focus should be on a number of key legal tasks. Then why do we have this Media Act? I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State whether this is really in line with the Media Act and whether it is possible that a number of key tasks are not being carried out for so long. Finally, I also have a friendly hand-out to the cabinet. The agenda of the Council of Ministers is secret, but I would nevertheless like to make a suggestion for an item on the agenda next Friday, namely the communication policy of the Minister for the Interior. I stress that D66 is not in favour of summer stops, but in the case of this minister, a summer stop on Twitter might be a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	I would like to remind Mr Verhoeven that the new Media Act is not yet in force. So this summer, public service broadcasting is still functioning under the old Media Act. He is absolutely right that I have advocated, for example, the removal of entertainment from the law as a core task of public service broadcasting. In the meantime, the new law has been passed by the Upper Chamber. I hope it can enter quickly, but that also requires some decision-making in the House of Representatives. I hope we can put some pace on that. I'm looking forward to the summer. There is a committee that checks whether the programmes of public service broadcasting fit into the Media Act. However, the mandate as it stands in the current legislation is still very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	One last question. That means that if the Media Act is passed, we won't have this next year, next summer. Is that what the Secretary of State says now?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	If the new Media Act is adopted, there will be a new task for public service broadcasting and public service broadcasting will have to work along these lines next year. However, within the remit of information, culture and education, there will also be scope for reporting on sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	State broadcasting has no interest in the Media Act: they do not care about it at all. They want our money, but they don't stick to the deal. State broadcasting is actually a left-wing party. They applauded Islam and mass immigration, and now they do it to the pseudo-refugees and the nepatialists. It is very good that there is a summer stop and that it takes a very long time. Actually, it's the longer the better. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he cannot ensure that the summer public service stop lasts until far after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	I expected Mr Bosma to be happy that Pauw is not on the tube for a while. In fact, he resorts to almost every debate in order to give it up. I don't think that's right. I think it's a good program. It's too bad it has a summer break, but I think it'll just come back after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have another question about the statement by the Minister for the Interior, who is going into the field of the media. He says it's crazy that public service broadcasting doesn't do its core job. This Secretary of State trivializes this by saying that the Minister says this as a television viewer, but that is not possible at all. The Minister of the Interior is 24/7 minister. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Does he therefore agree with the content of the tweet that public service broadcasting is not fulfilling its core role?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	No, I don't agree with that. I also note that this is not a cabinet policy, because that is what I am proclaiming from behind the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	I didn't want to interfere, but this raises the question of what this state law is about. It cannot be true that a minister of this cabinet finds something about the policy of the same cabinet and that it is so easily overcome. It's not a big deal; it's not gonna kill us all. The second point, of course, is that everyone is feeling a little uncomfortable, because on the one hand we are not allowed to interfere with the content. On the other hand, isn't that money given to do nothing about information and topicality for months?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's right. I note that this continues and that other programmes are also coming back. Take a program like Summer Guests, which can be seen in the summer and not in the following months. There are also other programmes that fit well into the public service remit to pay attention to information, culture and education. I think Mr Plasterk's statements should be seen as a personal opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Bosma, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	But then I'll quit, too, Mr. Chairman. Mr Elias is right: there is unity of cabinet policy and the cabinet speaks with one voice. This weekend we had a television viewer who had an opinion on a programme, namely Mr Rutte, in this house also known as the Prime Minister. He referred to Johan Derksen's statement on the Moroccan problem in football as a bizarre statement, or words of a similar nature, and said that it's crazy that he gets airtime on television. That's a lot for a prime minister to say. I think I know he's not about that. I believe that this is also contrary to Article 7 of the Constitution. What does this Minister of Media think...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	Recovery: what does this State Secretary of Media think of such a programme designation by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	I do not think we are talking about the content of programmes or what journalists say and the opinions they express. Well, that doesn't mean you're allowed to make a counter view. If someone says something on television and makes a point of view, I think you can find something about it. If you disagree, this is a free country in which you can say that you think it is wrong or disagree, but in which there is no censorship.
