ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	I give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. After two world wars in the last century with millions of victims, our continent wants to be an example to the world. The promotion of democratic and constitutional values is at the heart of the European Union. The UN Refugee Treaty also has its tragic origins in European history. Refugees in the Second World War faced closed borders. That was never meant to happen again. In the meantime, it is clear that Europe is in danger of falling morally with the Turkey deal. GroenLinks has three major concerns. The first concerns the way to prevent people from getting on boats themselves. The way to prevent this is to ensure safe routes. The Turkey deal would start with that. But out of the 400 refugees a day to show good will, only a handful of people have been brought to Europe. Where's the good will? And even more dangerous routes, such as those via Libya, are used more often. What are we going to do about that? Minister Koenders says he wants to talk to Libya, too. What exactly is the Minister's view of this? Libya is an unstable country with four different governments. In addition, a significant coastal area is owned by IS. Why don't we send refugees back? I come to my second concern. In Greece, thousands of refugees are locked in detention centres. They are there without medical care, with too little food and without asylum procedures. There are too few interpreters, lawyers and judges. Last week, one employee was available at Chios for 833 asylum applications. How are these overstaffed employees going to ensure a careful procedure? Should they send a woman with children back to Turkey when the father is already in Europe? And what about the single minors? The conditions of the 50,000 to 70,000 refugees who were already in Greece before the Turkey deal was concluded, such as Idomeni, are dramatic. What's happening to them? The Chamber has passed a motion on an emergency plan for these people for a reason. I come to my third concern, Turkey. A motion from the previous debate states that no one should be sent back before Turkey materially meets the requirements of the UN Refugee Convention. Does the cabinet agree with me that Turkey must meet the following three requirements? Firstly, the requirement for refugees to be able to apply for status in a careful procedure. Syrians are subject to a temporary protection measure on paper. On paper, therefore, some protection is provided for them. Non-Syrians are not protected as refugees in Turkey. Secondly, the demand that no one be returned to an unsafe country. This is the demand that Amnesty International has put an end to. Does the cabinet rely on Amnesty International's facts or does it rely on Erdogan's words? Thirdly, the demand that refugees should have the right to work, health care and education. Turkey is also failing to meet this demand. Take the right to work. Of the Syrians 0.1% managed to obtain a work permit. Non-Syrians have a 0.0% chance of obtaining a work permit; they are not entitled to it. Does the government recognise that Turkey is far from meeting all these requirements? If it does, the conclusion can be no other than that the deal is suspended. It is only when independent European observers say that Turkey meets the requirements of international law that that suspension can be lifted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Europe has a responsibility to provide security for displaced persons. Europe has always taken that responsibility over the years and must continue to do so. It is precisely in order to fulfil that responsibility that reception must be sustained, and that is where the problem lies with the flow that has started from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and North Africa over the last few years. This is not sustainable. We must be aware that we in Europe are only on the verge of a much greater migration of people that can start in the coming decades. Population growth combined with climate change and the rise of radical Islam are a source of lasting chaos at Europe's external borders. In this world of growing unrest, Europe is vulnerable. Turkey lies in the middle of chaos and uncertain Europe. The country is a victim, but also a perpetrator. It has absorbed millions of refugees from Syria in recent years, but on the other hand it bombs the Kurds in its own country and beyond and is at least woeful towards IS. Against Europe, Turkey is particularly good at ripping off its leaders. The way Erdogan pointed the finger at the Netherlands immediately after the attacks in Brussels is only a small example of this. However, Europe must make agreements with Turkey. However, the big question is whether you do this from a position of strength, in which you determine conditions, or from a position of weakness. The deal we are discussing today has come about from a position of weakness. Ankara sets the conditions, Europe delivers. While Turkey is in civil war with the Kurds and human rights are being violated, accession negotiations with Europe are being reopened. While the country still operates half-heartedly vis-à-vis IS and the returners, Turkey is promised visa freedom. In addition, Turkey will receive EUR 6 billion for the reception of refugees. In return, Turkey takes back refugees who have travelled to Greece and promises to stop the crossing. That is necessary in itself, but the agreement to stop those boats was already made with Turkey in November, in exchange for EUR 3 billion. It's Turkey that didn't deliver. Now Turkey delivers, but at a much higher price for Europe. That's very clever negotiation for everything. The decline in the flow of refugees is extremely important. And Europe has a role in this, but Europe is a community of values. Turkey's accession to the EU and visa liberalisation should not be used as a means of exchange. We must also be fair to the four countries in the Western Balkans, in particular to Macedonia and Bulgaria. It was those countries that closed the border with Greece, something Europe could not decide on. When that happened, the playing field changed. The countries have made a controversial choice, but it was necessary. In short, the CDA supports the introduction of measures to control the flow. However, we cannot agree to this deal because the price is too high. In addition, there are questions about implementation. How many refugees to be distributed across Europe are we talking about, I ask the Prime Minister. There are different figures on this. Which countries are not participating in the redistribution? What are the consequences for these countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would like to return to the point made by Mr Buma. He said it's CDA for curbing the flow of refugees, but not for this deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	For the sake of clarity, therefore, the CDA believes that the agreements with Turkey should not be allowed to continue. It would rather have thousands of people each day crossing the border to Europe, with all the problems they have to deal with, than these agreements? I say that Mr Buma himself has already agreed to visa liberalisation. It was set in motion by Minister Leers in 2011. The CDA sketches the picture that we have given away that visa liberalisation, but that picture is incorrect. We've already started that trajectory a long time ago. Turkey still has to meet the same conditions as it did then. Mr Buma is therefore rejecting a deal on the basis of incorrect grounds, which solves a huge problem. Is it not wise to return to earth for a moment, to stop the rhetoric and say: let us be equally real; a good performance has been achieved here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	No, that's absolutely not wise. The essence of stopping refugees is in the Balkans. The setting up of the Balkan countries is the game changer that made it roll. What we are giving Turkey is that we are indeed accelerating visa liberalisation. That's the deal. It's on paper. It will take place from the end of June and a proposal will be made in April. That wouldn't have happened without this deal. That is a fact, because visa liberalisation was planned for the longer term, but not for the present.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	Then I am sure Mr Buma will also know what the deadline was.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	There was no time limit attached to it. Yes, as of November there was another deadline attached to it. But the trajectory was completely shut down. Europe didn't do anything anymore. And why not? Because Turkey is violating human rights. Because we had a debate here last week because Turkey doesn't even call if a terrorist is put on a plane to the Netherlands. It is not safe enough to introduce visa liberalisation at all now. So Mr Zijlstra may argue that, but I say that it is very foolish to link that to this deal, and Mr Zijlstra knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr Buma knows he's bullshit. It's really pertinent bullshit. Visa liberalisation started four and a half years ago. 1 October was the date of eligibility if the conditions were met. This has been postponed to 1 July and also applies if the condition is met. Mr Buma, like everyone else in this Chamber, knows that the conditions will not be met on 1 July. This will not be the case on 1 October either. The whole story of Mr Buma, in which he rejects the agreements with Turkey that solve a huge problem, is based on pure air, mere rhetoric. That's totally irresponsible. There are no words for the CDA, which in the past has taken care of that sort of thing itself, now wants the refugees to come, just because the possibility of meeting the conditions has been put forward for three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	What has changed completely because of the deal is that Turkey has got its hands on the button. If we do not deliver quickly enough with visa liberalisation, Turkey will be able to open the button again. That's what's wrong. Why is it not ultimately useful for Turkey to open that button? That is not because of the deal, but because the refugees are not going to cross because the borders are closed. They're staying in Greece. That's the big difference. Mr Zijlstra must agree with me that Europe has done nothing to assist those four countries in the Balkans. I was the first to say that there should be understanding of what Hungary did. Everyone in this country fell over that. In the end, the countries like Bulgaria and Macedonia have done the same and solved the problem for us. We then extradited to Turkey. I would just follow the debate in Germany these days, to see that Erdogan knows very well how to take advantage of this deal. That started and we're all there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	May I point out to Mr Buma that we are here in a country with Mr Rutte as Prime Minister? I am confident that he will defend the liberal principles. That is clearly a little less entrusted to a Christian Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	I agree with Mr Zijlstra's argument for the whole. However, Prime Minister Rutte has already been ridiculed by Erdogan, when Erdogan pointed out to the Netherlands as the problem in these attacks shortly after the attacks in Brussels. That's what Erdogan did to this Prime Minister. I'm looking at what Erdogan's doing. I see that we all see that since that deal Erdogan has been pointing more towards Europe and talking more about Europe and that Erdogan's interference has increased in Europe. Again, there's the problem. That is a structural problem. The short-term issue, which we all see, has been solved by giving Turkey a stronger position in the longer term because Europe has thrown things over the fence out of weakness that did not have to be. Turkey had to deliver already in November, but did not do so and gets double as a thank you. Mr. Chairman. I've got three sentences left.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's good. You're welcome to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	I have two final questions for the Prime Minister. What is true of the story that Turkey is sending Syrians back to Syria? After all, it must be true in Turkey. Meanwhile, the number of refugees in Italy and Malta is increasing rapidly and Austria is closing the Brenner Pass. How does the Prime Minister view these developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. The world is drifting. 60 million people are fleeing war, hunger and oppression. Another tens of millions of people, mainly in Africa, do not actually have any economic prospects. They too may decide today tomorrow to seek their happiness elsewhere. How much you give everyone the best possible future, the hard reality is that it will not be for many. As much as some would like it, we cannot solve all these problems in the Netherlands or in Europe. It is therefore a good thing that the Prime Minister has made agreements with Turkey on behalf of the EU. We all know the images of thousands of people crossing every day with wrecked boats from Turkey to Greece, to Europe. I remember very well the photo on the front page of the Volkskrant on which you saw so many boats that it looked more like an invasion than a controlled migration flow. So it wasn't. I hope that the Prime Minister's agreement with Turkey has brought this under control. That's worth a big compliment. Only a year ago such agreements were considered impossible. In fact, they found many unacceptable. In recent weeks, we have been able to observe with caution that the agreements seem to work, that they really are stopping illegal immigration through Turkey to Europe. The agreement has everything to be a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr Zijlstra is now talking about this agreement. I pointed out that Turkey already promised in November that it would stop forwarding the boats. Those agreements were already there, for 3 billion and not for those other points. How does Mr Zijlstra judge the fact that Turkey does not first do what it promises and then gets double if it does?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u18	What Turkey is doing now is more than we agreed at the time. Turkey then committed itself to stopping the people who tried to cross from Turkey. We have all seen this in part, because there has been a great deal of movement. Then Turkey informed the EU that it would go much further and that it was prepared to take back everyone who crossed the border. That was a huge step. That is why the comparison that Mr Buma often makes as if the price of 3 billion agreed in November has now doubled for the same agreements is totally incorrect. He knows that very well. The agreements that have now been reached with Turkey go much further than the agreements made in November. That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u19	The boats have been coming ever since. Turkey should have stopped them, but they kept coming. When the gate was closed with Macedonia, people could not move on. So it built up and up because the gate was closed and Turkey continued to steer boats. Turkey is not taking back many new people now, no, it is taking back the people who have let it through since November. If Turkey had not done so and had fulfilled the first deal, this problem would have been much smaller and the fence in Macedonia would not have closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u20	I don't quite understand this logic. Because the gate closed in Macedonia, the Turks stopped letting go of boats. Let me translate it like that. That's pertinent bullshit. We all saw that when the gate closed in Macedonia, there was a huge problem at the border between Greece and Macedonia. So apparently, people still came along. It stopped only after these agreements were made, now that Turkey is ready to take back refugees who have crossed the border. Against that one-on-one-one we have set that we are taking in people who come from Syria. That's what happened in the last week. The image presented by Mr Buma is incorrect and it would be nice if he could admit it for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u21	The ball started rolling when that gate closed, because then the situation became untenable and Turkey had to operate. I do not understand why Mr Zijlstra is not defending the countries that have done so either. They had no choice. Europe only delayed and postponed the fact that Turkey would be outside Schengen. Those countries have done it themselves, the situation has stalled and Turkey has also faced a major problem. It also saw, of course, that people will no longer travel if they do not come into Europe. The closure of the fence was the start and Turkey very cleverly attacked this Prime Minister with what seemed like a super deal, but in the longer term that deal is 100% in favour of Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u22	Once again, it was only going to roll because Turkey was not going to act until the border with Macedonia closed. That is very strange, because Turkey had no problem, the EU had a problem. For Turkey, closing the border with Macedonia was really no reason to do anything, because that was a problem in the EU. By the way, the closure of the border with Macedonia was condemned, but that was the commitment of Europe, namely back to Dublin. At the outer border where people enter, they register, and if this doesn't happen, you close the border elsewhere. Macedonia is not even part of the EU, but Slovenia and Austria are. So it was just policy that was put into practice. So there is no contradiction here either. Turkey did not succeed sufficiently in stopping the departure of the boats. I agree with Mr Buma. In view of the coastline of Turkey, this is also quite a task. They did not succeed enough; that is true. Turkey also saw the problem and was prepared to work with the EU to find a solution. Turkey was willing to take people back. We have always said: this is what is needed. And that's what's happening now. People are going back now. With that, the incentive, the urge, is gone to pay the smuggler first and then risk drowning, because if you make it across the street, you go back. That's an effective way to make sure these people don't go anymore. Fortunately, we are now seeing that happen. That needs to be settled. We must solve the major problem of the refugee flow. I am surprised at all kinds of different motives of both GroenLinks and the CDA, as if we had no problem. Thousands of people crossed each day; thousands of people came to the Netherlands each week. We just couldn't handle it! Here, however, it is said with some kind of no commitment: well, those agreements, we just shouldn't do it. Well, that would have been nice, if it had gone on as it did in the fall. It seems that they would rather take on that responsibility than defend this kind of agreement. I find it incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u23	When Mr Zijlstra starts to talk away from the paper, he sometimes gets a little careless. I find it painful that the image of refugees who constitute an invasion is brought forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u24	It was on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u25	Oh, it was on paper. Worse. The VVD out of a sacred trust in what is happening in Turkey now. Even in the past, Mr Zijlstra talks about the flows of refugees. Yesterday, the Italian Coast Guard alone saved over 2,100 people at sea. The confidence that the VVD now places in a country like Turkey amazes me so incredibly. If you look at the recent history of VVD politics, you will see that the VVD has never put its faith in it. I would therefore like to hear an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u26	I am so concerned about the fact that this is not the solution, the Columbus egg, to the refugee problem, because this is not the solution. It's a piece of the solution, and no more than that. I spoke about Turkey last time. Mr Pechtold will not hear me say that Turkey's Turkish laws, values and standards make a great country with which you can work together fantasticly in all cases. I have quoted Mr Erdogan many times. He once said democracy is like a bus; you need it to reach your destination, but when you get there, get out. I have the impression that Mr Erdogan has been getting out for a while. However, the VVD has often said in the past that we do not have the luxury of making agreements with countries that apply the same standards, values and moral standards as the Netherlands. After all, that pretty much ends at the European external border. In fact, that even applies to a few countries within Europe. If we are to solve these problems, we will also have to make agreements with regimes that we are less enthusiastic about. That is in this case with Turkey. That's what you're standing for. That does not mean that you approve of what is happening in Turkey. Nor will I approve of what happens there, for example, with freedom of the press. However, it does not relieve national and European politicians of the obligation to make agreements with such regimes in order to control the problems here. And that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u27	The finger really points to everyone, literally from left to right, because the VVD is oh so proud of the Prime Minister who has a deal. By the way, I always have a lot of trouble with the word "deal" when it comes to refugees. Agreements have been made with Turkey, but at the expense of what? The VVD is critical when Turkey approaches Europe, and rightly so. The VVD is critical of the visa, and rightly so, and of all the things that go with it, up to and including the money. Yes, you can make agreements with countries involved in the refugee problem, but this cannot be at the expense of matters of principle that are at the heart of Europe. We'll slip. Then we will not be better than the regimes that we must fight together. If the current situation shows that the water in the waterbed simply moves to the other side, then I agree with Mr Zijlstra that this should be our focus, but not through a deal which is at the expense of essential matters which we are trying to defend on this continent.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u28	The essentials that we face in this continent are also being secured. It has been agreed with Turkey that the principle of non-refoulement, not sending it back to a war zone of the people we send back, is certain. I do hear sounds, but I haven't seen a beginning of any evidence that something is actually going on. So let's not create a picture here now, and Mr Pechtold obviously wants to do it as if we were letting go of our own standards. The reality is that you have to look at the agreements that have been made with Turkey, and then you can ask yourself what we are talking about. We did not agree with Turkey that it should join the EU. We've agreed we're going to have conversations about opening some chapters. Chapters remain closed as well. If these talks lead to anything, I think that is a theoretical possibility, to be honest, then we will always have to consider whether we want Turkey to join. I have said many times that this is not the issue as far as I am concerned, but I am fine with talking about it. That's the cheapest part of these appointments. Then I come to the visa obligation, which Mr Buma also mentioned. Let us look at the facts. That's always useful when you're talking about a treaty like this. Not only the images, but also the facts are important. Such a fact is that Turkey would be eligible for visa liberalisation on 1 October if it met the 72 conditions. That date has been postponed from 1 October to 1 July, so a few months. The 72 conditions Turkey has to meet still apply. Two weeks ago, Turkey met nineteen conditions. The biometric passport should, for example, be introduced in order to qualify for visa liberalisation. One thing we know for sure: they haven't even started, and that takes years. So this point is also very good to defend. Now let's stop sketching the image that we've given ourselves away. There's a great deal ahead of it. That's gonna put a huge problem under control. No, the whole problem isn't, and I'll get to that in a minute. We also see the shift to other routes. However, we can control the main route through Turkey. What responsibility do we, as politicians, assume when we say: do not do this, it was indeed a very pleasant picture that we saw this autumn, with the thousands of people crossing the border every day, who drowned a lot, and who also caused great problems in our society? However, I do feel that responsibility, and that is why I think this is a good agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u29	What a cynical attitude. It is really a cynical attitude to focus only on part of the deal and part of the Syrians when, of course, it is about the human rights of all Syrians who are sent to Turkey and in Turkey. Amnesty reports terrible things about that. There are even reports that the Turks are simply firing sharp shots at people who are heading towards the border. That's the point. Mr Zijlstra's attitude comes down to the following: we gave them something, and something else, and that doesn't mean anything, because they're not gonna get those visas, and that opening those chapters, well, you can always talk. That is cynicism, and that makes sense that Erdogan is slowly daily trying to tell us that we know nothing about salafism, that we are responsible for the attacks here and that he can no longer even stand criticism and comedians from the civilized world. That's the cynicism we end up in. So let's stick to our own standards. So let us not talk about an invasion of refugees and thereby pollute the debate, but let us ensure that there are decent solutions. Let us keep pressure on Turkey and not think that we fooled Turkey. That only leads to counter-reactions in the same vein as we know it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u30	This is what I now find cynicism. We need realism, and realism means that we sometimes have to solve very difficult problems by making agreements with regimes that we don't like. Mr Pechtold and I and probably many people in this Chamber share the view that things are happening in Turkey that we are not happy about and that we would not want. But it is difficult for us to be held responsible from the Netherlands for acts of the Turkish regime, where that is not our responsibility. However, we are responsible for the people who have arrived and are returned to Europe. We have a responsibility in that if we send them back. There's no other way. And we made that deal, too. And if things were to happen there, we should know that too, and then there will have to be action. To date, Turkey has also firmly denied any accusation, and I have not yet seen any evidence from Amnesty. The realism that is needed here is that we also dare to tackle major problems and we do not get stuck in an attitude where it is easy to call from the sidelines, which does not solve those problems. These kinds of problems need to be solved and sometimes you have to take unconventional steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u31	But even a realist doesn't put his head in the sand for the facts that lie ahead of us. Last night we saw the footage of the NIS, of several eyewitnesses, even on the Syrian side, of camps of Al-Qaeda, also known as Al-Nusra, against whom we were still fighting in Afghanistan, where people are now being sent back. An important principle of the Refugee Convention is not to send it back to unsafe countries. Amnesty International's report has been mentioned here and there are eyewitnesses' reports on the killing of people, including three children from Syria. How many facts does Mr Zijlstra have left to ask Turkey if there is anything wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u32	I want to know what's going on first. With all due respect, from the NOS report and Amnesty's report, there are no hard facts. Suggestions are being made. If these suggestions prove to be true, then there is also a problem, because we have committed ourselves not to sending people back from Europe who are then sent to war zone. However, we cannot be held responsible for what Turkey does to people who have never been to Europe at all. That's hard, but it's true. Nor can we be held responsible for people who, for example, are sent from Iraq to Afghanistan. That's what's happening there. So we do have to separate our responsibilities. The responsibility for people coming to Europe also feels the VVD. Those are people who came in here as refugees. We have agreements on this and we will have to keep them. We have to make that dividing line, no matter how hard it can sometimes be. After all, we have a responsibility, including towards our own people, to solve this great problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mr Zijlstra knows that this is our responsibility, because the Netherlands has helped to make this deal. We have even been at the vanguard because we are Presidents of the European Union. This means that we can only send refugees back if it is a safe country. The core of a safe country is a'safe third country', as I should say, is that it does not force people to return to Syria. I hear Mr Zijlstra say that this is indeed part of the agreement and that we are responsible for it. Is Mr Zijlstra currently prepared to suspend the transmissions from Greece to Turkey until we have the assurance that Turkey meets the core value, namely that it does not send people back to unsafe countries? Mr Zijlstra also wants to know the facts first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u34	No, I'm not prepared to do that, because I have no reason to believe that this is happening right now. I'd love to hear that from the cabinet in a moment, but I don't have that assumption. I'm not gonna put aside appointments like this, because that's actually gonna destroy them and you're gonna go back to a situation like that last fall. Mr Voordewind knows that too. We need to control the flow of refugees. We have made agreements in international treaties and we must abide by them. We do not run away from that, because we must stick to it. However, we must first determine whether it is going wrong, not the other way around. When I hear the reactions in this debate and elsewhere, I get the impression, quite frankly, that we prefer not to have agreements but a large flow of refugees with all the consequences, rather than that we do have agreements with Turkey, which puts it under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr Zijlstra wants facts. Is he therefore prepared to send an independent committee to the border between Syria and Turkey to see what is really true of the reports that people are being forced to return to a country such as Syria, in particular to the Al-Qaeda camps at the border? Is he willing to do so and is he then willing in the meantime to take the place?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u36	My answer to the last question is no. After all, I have no reason to do so now. However, we would like to know from the cabinet, and Mr Voordewind will probably ask that question himself, which is the reason to assume that the people we send back from Greece to Turkey end up in war. That would indeed not be possible, and that would be a good reason to sit down with Turkey. Those practices would be contrary to the agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u37	I am looking for what the VVD really wants to achieve, both in the cabinet and here in the Chamber. I hear Mr Zijlstra saying that he is satisfied, that it is going well, that the flow of refugees has almost stopped and that it seems that we are going to achieve our goal. He concludes that it worked. Not only do I see images of degrading conditions at the Syrian-Turkish border, but I also see images of refugees in Greek detention camps who are hungry. I have seen how refugees ended up in a inhuman situation at the Greek-Macedonian border crossing. We know that tear gas is fired at refugees trying to cross the border there. Is that what Mr Zijlstra has in mind when he says: we succeeded, the deal is already a success?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u38	I didn't say it worked, because that would be a little too optimistic. It seems to work, and I hope it does. What's a success? That is actually the question behind the long description of situations where no one gets happy. No one is waiting for footage of refugees at the border of Macedonia, trying to get through a fence. That is precisely why such an agreement with Turkey is important: to prevent people from getting into that place and to prevent people from getting into boats to seek their salvation in Europe. I understand that all these people are trying to do that, because in Europe, the perspective for almost everyone is better than where they are at the moment. It is therefore quite understandable that you should do something about this. Otherwise, we will get these images of the situation at the border with Macedonia. Otherwise, we'll keep those images of people drowning in the Aegean. I'd like to do something about that. That indeed means that you also have to make agreements with regimes that really do not make you happy every day. That's a sense of reality. And if you don't want to, you'll get exactly the situations just described by Mrs. Gesthuizen. That is the result of doing nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u39	No, that's not the result of doing nothing, that's the result of doing nothing by the VVD. As the largest party here in the Chamber, with the prime minister at the top, the VVD refuses to do what is necessary on European territory. If we do not want these abuses in Greece, then we do not need a deal with Turkey. Then you have to take responsibility and make sure that the agreements we have made a long time ago are kept. Mr Zijlstra, you can blink, but you are also familiar with these agreements. Then you have to make sure you take responsibility and redistribute people. Then you have to make sure that not everyone in Greece stands at a closed border, but you have to be so brave to explain it to your people here. Then you have to say: it is no one's pleasure, these 60 million refugees, we see that as VVD too, but we do not want to make agreements at the expense of human rights. Then you have to say: we take over refugees and we ensure that we work together here in Europe; we take over people from countries like Greece and from countries around Syria, and we carry our responsibilities in this way. My preliminary conclusion is that the VVD is okay with it. If the problems don't come here, if people don't come to the Netherlands, if they don't get to Europe anymore, then the VVD doesn't give a shit whether they're going to find a close border in Turkey or even in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u40	In this piece a lot of things are wiped on a lot that are really separate from each other. We made clear agreements in the autumn and the cabinet wrote a clear letter on this. That's what the VVD committed to. It was clearly agreed at that time that we would redistribute those who caused the problems in the southern countries such as Italy and Greece. Moreover, these agreements were part of a larger agreement, including in Europe, which included the agreements that have now been reached with Turkey. That was already in the letter from the cabinet in September or October last year. So it's just part of it. As far as we are concerned, this redistribution is still taking place. That's what we signed up for, and we're not running away from it at all. But it only makes sense to do that kind of thing if you make sure that the crane is closed. If you continue to redistribute and if Greece continues to flood from Turkey, at some point you have redistributed 160,000 people, but then there are 160,000 new refugees. And then you still have the problem. That is why the solution to the problem is that you control that stream of refugees from Turkey, that you contain them, and that you ensure that people have a perspective through resettlement. So you have to make sure that Europe does take responsibility. That's what we committed to, too. But that power needs to stop and be controlled. That's what we do. If we do not do that, all the horrible images that Mrs Gesthuizen paints can indeed become reality, but that does not happen because we are doing something. Again, that would happen if we didn't do anything. I'm tasting a little bit that this is what Mrs. Gesthuizen wants. I can't imagine, but that's what she's actually saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u41	Finally, Mrs Gesthuizen, but briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u42	I shall be as brief as the other spokesmen so far, Mr President. The problem, of course, is that the power doesn't dry up at all. That is the greatest lie that is being told here. It is, of course, nonsense to assume that when we barricade our borders, the flow of refugees also dries. That's bullshit, of course. That flow of refugees remains, only then stuck in countries like Turkey and Lebanon and unfortunately, when Europe no longer takes responsibility, even in a country like Syria, where people really have to fear for their lives. That is the cynical realism that Mr Zijlstra is apparently so proud of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u43	The reality is indeed cynical, I admit that immediately. The cynical reality is that we cannot solve the problems of the whole world in Europe. You'd love to, but it's impossible. The SP actually says that the flow of refugees is there anyway, acting at borders and trying to stop the flow is impossible and you shouldn't. But we know what's gonna happen, and they're gonna keep coming. Then the SP must also be real and draw the consequences, because our welfare state, our social services and the support base in society are not going to be able to cope with that. If all these people come here, we can like it or not, that is not at all a question of being far beyond the support and capacity of the social welfare state. We cannot like that, we can close our eyes to that, but that too is the cynical reality. Frankly, the VVD thinks that we should look at that, act on it, and that also means that we are prepared to take measures that are not equally pleasant, but with which we take the responsibility to ensure that what we have built here also remains. The SP doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u44	I am used to a lot of Mr Zijlstra talking about refugees, but I never thought he would be in the debate today for Erdogan. In fact, he says in so many words: I think Erdogan is much more reliable than Amnesty International, because that should first prove it. He says: I must first see the evidence of what is happening in Turkey and we have made agreements with Turkey. It is as if we are making agreements with Iran on the nuclear programme, and if we ask if they are being controlled, there is an answer: no, but we have been promised that Iran will stick to it. I cannot imagine that Mr Zijlstra would be satisfied in that case. Nor should we do that in the agreements with Turkey. So what steps does Mr Zijlstra think that the cabinet and Europe should take to find out whether Turkey is indeed sending people back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u45	First of all, the contradiction that is created: I do not believe that I am known for my enormous sympathy for Mr Erdogan. I don't think that's gonna change either, seeing what he's doing in Germany. Frankly, I do not think the Chancellor's reaction is very sensible either. I don't like that much. You just have to be able to say what you want and Mr Erdogan has to stay out of it. But when we make agreements with a country, we appeal to that country if things don't go well. We are not going to stop programmes and agreements because we are getting signals from certain rumors or, to use a less negative word, that was Mr Voordewind's question. You don't have to stop the appointments right away. You have to look at what is going on and see if there is any evidence; I have already placed it with the Prime Minister. If it turns out that the agreements we have made are not being complied with, we will have to act because we stand for them. This also means that we are doing the right things in terms of human rights at the time. We are not going to ensure that people who are sent back from Europe via Turkey return to the war zone where they come from. We have not signed up for this and we are not going to sign up for it, but then Mr Klaver should not express a contradiction as if it would provide Mr Erdogan with some sort of legitimacy, because we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr Zijlstra says that it was Amnesty, that he has not yet seen any evidence and that he has an appointment with the Turkish government. I have heard Mr Zijlstra very well. He's absolutely right when he says this president has no sense of humor. He is absolutely right to say that Erdogan is not a democrat in the way he is trying to shape his country now. The more terrified I am when Mr Zijlstra says: we have made agreements and they must be kept. It was the Turkish ambassador to the European Union who said that the European Union should not control what is happening in Turkey at all, that the European Union should not look around there at all. If Minister Koenders or the European Commission visits, Turkey can be asked to deport people. If the Turks say that is not the case, then they will be satisfied. I want us to go there with our own mission and with our own eyes. What's going on? Is the accusation of Amnesty International and independent journalists correct that people are being evicted? We must be able to see that for ourselves. Does Mr Zijlstra agree with me that an observation mission should be sent to Turkey to find out what is happening there, that we should look at it for ourselves and that we should not ask the Turkish authorities or a President without humour?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have already told Mr Voordewind that I agree that the cabinet, Europe, has an obligation to ensure, through an observation mission or whatever, that the people we send back do not end up in war zone. That's our obligation now that there are these kinds of signals. We agree on that. If that's what it takes, it's what it takes. I want to make no mistake about that. If it can be done in another way, it is good, but it will have to be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u48	Finally, Mr Klaver, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u49	I am sure that we will be able to discuss the way in which this is to be established, as far as I am concerned, that is to say, that it is independent, but Mr Zijlstra is using an occasional argument. He is trying to narrow the debate down, as if it were only about safety for the people who are being sent back from Greece. In the end, the deal with Turkey talks about all Syrian refugees in Turkey and not just about the small group we are sending back. The deal is that we want to improve the situation of all Syrian refugees. Mr Zijlstra is now making it very small, as if it were only about the people we are deporting, but ultimately the principle of non-refoulement, the principle that people cannot be returned to a country where they are at risk, must apply to all refugees. If refugees who are now staying in Turkey are not safe, that undermines the deal. I would like to hear from Mr Zijlstra that he agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u50	At the time when Turkey is not a safe third country, the agreements made, which are sometimes broader than those relating only to those who have been returned, apply. Those appointments are leading. Turkey must comply with that. If Turkey does not comply, we have a problem. We don't disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u51	Is Mr Zijlstra...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u52	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u53	Just a question. Does Mr Zijlstra agree with me that people who are now staying in Turkey and who have not been brought back by Europe to Turkey cannot be expelled to Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u54	Not in all cases. We are also expelling people to Afghanistan and Iraq, because we have good reasons for doing so. So I cannot put it so generally, but we have made it clear in the agreements with Turkey that we are applying the principles of treaty law. This does not apply in all cases only to those who are sent back from Greece, because in different areas it is wider than that. The agreements are the agreements, even where they are broader. If it has a broader effect in Turkey, and it is not just about the people who are being sent back from Greece, it is part of the agreements and they must be kept. I am looking at the set of agreements, because they are leading and they must be respected by Turkey. Turkey also has its own responsibility, for example when considering whether someone should be expelled to Iraq, where there is a similar issue. We are now sending back two thirds of the people from Iraq. So you cannot say: if people come from Iraq, Turkey cannot send them back. Turkey must be able to make that independent assessment, but within the agreements that have been made with Europe, and these agreements comply by their nature with the refugee treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr. Klaver, really last.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u56	We are also going to talk about Afghans and Iraqis, but I am really talking about Syria. Reports from the last few days indicate that Syrian refugees have been expelled from Turkey to Syria. I would like to hear from Mr Zijlstra that this is under no circumstances permitted. It's not about Iraq or Afghanistan, it's about Syria. Syrian refugees cannot be expelled by Turkey to Syria!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u57	I'm inclined to say yes, but after a small comma I'll add: that's the general principle. It is Syria's war zone and I do not have the impression that there is a safe zone, let me put it this way. That is the general principle. Nevertheless, I think that you should dare to put that comma on the table. For legitimate reasons, Turkey can make the justified consideration that someone should be sent back. To be honest, I can't think of a situation for which this is going to happen right now, but I want that comma set. We therefore immediately agree that it is the general principle that Syrians from a war zone cannot be returned to a war zone. They're refugees. We do not think that every refugee in Europe needs to be sheltered, but we have always said that there are treaties that provide for the protection of refugees outside the area from which they have fled. That is quite clear for Syrians: that is Syria!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u58	I am glad that we are getting out of the mess, perhaps through the interruptions. Mr Zijlstra, too, is now saying: 'A deal is a deal and we have to keep an eye on it'. If the facts are not yet clear, we need to find out what those facts are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u59	That's what I've been saying since second one!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr President, it may be that you are also following this debate that Mr Zijlstra was not as clear from the first second as in the last minutes. It's a win that we're leaving the chop-chop behind. This will enable us to determine how these agreements can be viewed properly and independently. Amnesty and the Turks themselves will inform us about this. The most important thing is that it is monitored. In this debate it has been suggested that Europe should do so, and I find that strange, because it has not become a treaty. Nor can the European Parliament judge it, and Europe depends on it, because Europe is one of the elements of the agreement. Mr Zijlstra has just said that what is needed is necessary. I am thinking of the UNHCR, which is supported by Unicef, because it concerns a lot of children. Can the Chamber, together with Mr Zijlstra, ask the cabinet today to call for an investigation by those authorities so that we can weigh objectively everything that comes to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u61	Not that. I want it established, and I'm not gonna fill out who exactly needs to do that. It will have to be a thorough investigation so that we in Europe can have the confidence that our agreements with Turkey will be respected. We immediately agree on the need to act on that. However, I am not going to say whether it should be UNHCR or Amnesty. Those are also organisations with certain backgrounds. I'm not gonna fill out who's gonna do that right now. If Mr Pechtold makes the net a little wider and says: we need to be able to determine whether the agreements are being complied with in a way that is not biased, then we will soon agree. But I'm not gonna say it's got to be club X or club Y. To be honest, I think that goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u62	I think it's important, because we're trying to get there together. Mr Zijlstra is right to try to ensure that his cabinet progresses and that there is support. I think it is important, however, that Mr Zijlstra does not make a statement every time when it comes to Syrians and war zones. I understand he's still keeping that little way open. Even I understand that, but when it comes to supervision, I don't think you can talk about "clubs" when I call a few organizations that have the international purpose and standard to do so. I would consider the United Nations, UNHCR, UNICEF to be important, but above all I would argue that it should not be European, because we ourselves are part of this issue. Now that we are trying to put the hacking behind us, I would like to hear Mr Zijlstra a little more positive towards the cabinet. He has already said: we want independent research, but does he agree with me that this research should be carried out by valued and established organisations such as those I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u63	I think it is now half an hour since I had already served Mr Voordewind on that point. So I don't know what the chops are now, because we filled this out a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u64	Say yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u65	No, Mr. Chairman, because I'm not gonna fill out who's gonna do it here! I believe that Europe should be part of this; we disagree on this, Mr Pechtold. I am not saying that Europe must do it unilaterally, but it must be part of it. We do have an interest and we therefore have an interest in representing it. We must ensure that in this matter we do not have all kinds of other sub-interests which other organisations themselves have in mind. Europe must participate in it itself. That there are others watching, is fine, but let us not fill in who does and who does not. I don't see that as our job here. Our task here is another, and I think we agree 100% with each other: if you make agreements with a country like Turkey, of which we all know the reputation in this area, then you also have a responsibility to ensure that these agreements are complied with. We agree on that. If that takes action, control or whatever, we're just gonna do it, as far as I'm concerned. We agree on this, but if Mr Pechtold wants to establish who exactly is going to do that, then I think we are going to cut branches, which I do not think is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u66	Finally, Mr Pechtold, this point has already been discussed and repeated a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u67	It is a pity that Mr Zijlstra agrees with the principle and does not want to take the final step. We are not talking about a financial problem here. We are talking about a problem that a number of international organisations are dealing with, respected and equipped with. What problem does Mr Zijlstra have with taking that last step towards the Chamber and creating real support for it, by saying together? I shall weaken it, hoping that Mr Zijlstra will say yes, but we are thinking of organisations such as the UN and UNHCR. Is it so crazy to say: I don't think that's a crazy idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u68	This is beginning to take such forms that I am not going to give in at all! What the hell is this? After Mr Voordewind received an answer to this question half an hour ago, Mr Pechtold is constantly asking whether we can make sure that the agreements are complied with. I say yes to that, but I do not want to decide in advance who should do so. Then Mr Pechtold continues to see through, of: yes, but can we not say that this or that organisation is really one of them? No, I'm not doing that here! We agree on the principle and I believe that this is the key point: ensuring that the agreements made are respected and that checks are made on whether they are. Whoever is going to do that will undoubtedly be agreed at some point. That is not something we are just going to mention in the debate. Each organisation has pluses, but also loves, and that needs to be balanced and balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u69	That's exactly why we're asking through. When we make an appointment with the Greeks about finances, we also tell them who's going to check when, how and what and when reports will come. Mr Zijlstra deliberately does not want to take that last step and, as far as I am concerned, he is, perhaps unjustly, placing a great deal of suspicion on himself. There is now a second debate, after many debates, a concrete proposal, and Mr Zijlstra is defending it. Now ask parties: be specific, indicate that you not only want supervision, but also how you want to fill it out and by whom. At the first best deal on Greece and money, the VVD is leading the way to checking agreements and making them transparent, but now we have to say that we will come back to them later. No, Mr Zijlstra has had his cabinet present a deal today and he does not want to say how we are going to implement it and who is going to control it. It is a pity if Mr Zijlstra stays there, but it would be an incredible step if the VVD says: we are not sure whether we should listen to Amnesty or the Turks or look at news reports; that is why agreements include a control system, there are bodies for that and we are going to work on that. That's all I'm asking. But when organizations are mentioned, they are put away as clubs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u70	I think you have made your point sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u71	What Mr Pechtold just said was not his question. I answered that question with a yes 45 minutes ago. The point is indeed the interpretation of these organisations. We're not going to do that yet, but we already agree on that point. Mr Voordewind had already brought it in. That is right, because we in Europe have a duty to ensure that when we make agreements, we also check whether what we have agreed is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u72	I believe that this point has been sufficiently discussed. I still want to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u73	I wanted another organization... no, I have another question. We just got somewhere with Mr Zijlstra, when it was about the role of Turkey and the expulsion of refugees by Turkey to Syria. We can't, because Syria is a war zone. Mr Zijlstra placed a comma. I heard that very well, but that was more about: if there were a safe area there, then we should be able to do so because we are also doing so with Iraq. That is what Mr Zijlstra said at the time. According to recent reports, Turkey has deported people to Syria. If that proves to be true, then surely it is a fact that Turkey is not a safe third country and that it does not comply with international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr. Klaver says "if it turns out to be true." Let's establish that first. If it is true that Turkey does not comply with the commitments made, then there is a problem. We do not disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u75	That's important. If it turns out that not only the people we have sent back to Turkey but all Syrian refugees residing in Turkey have been expelled, then the question is what is the result of this. I do not understand why Mr Zijlstra does not want to say: until we are sure that this is not the case, we are not deporting people. Erdogan and his government are not the most reliable source, so is there any certainty that people will not be deported? Why does Mr Zijlstra not want to say that? I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u76	Because the reality of every day is that we have already had a great deal of difficulty in getting this flow of refugees under control at all. We now have agreements that seem to work. Let's say you're saying to Turkey right now: thank you for sticking your neck out, they did, too, but we have so little faith in you that we're putting those appointments aside. I think that means the end of the deal. Of course, we have a duty to ensure that these agreements are complied with in all respects. However, Mr Klaver knows as well as I do that if you do so now, there is such a motion of censure against the person with whom you have made the agreements that there is a good chance that he will ignore them. The result is that all this electricity will start again, that all these boats will disappear and that all the consequences in Europe and also at sea will happen again. On the basis of the current information, I am not prepared to take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u77	If Turkey considered that to be a vote of no confidence, I do not think it is a partner with which you can make good agreements. It seems perfectly normal to me that you ask to check made appointments. Mr Pechtold spoke about this. If we make agreements with Greece, a European Member State, we will send the troika, the IMF, the European Commission and the European Central Bank there to check that these agreements are being complied with. The same is what we expect from Turkey. Only when we are sure that Greece is in order will they receive money and only when we are sure that it is in order in Turkey should you send refugees back. In the end, it is not just about whether we can control the flow of refugees to Europe, but also whether we can protect the lives of refugees, including in Turkey. That is our very first task.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr Klaver is now taking a different point from what I said. He asked to suspend the appointments and the evictions. I'm not prepared to do that, because when you do that, you make agreements with each other, and then you say, "I don't trust you." Then you better hope they want to do it again sometime later. I'm not prepared to do that. I'm putting the responsibility in a different way. We also have a responsibility to control the flow of refugees. It weighs very heavy for me. But it is equally important that I should also like to know whether the agreements are being complied with by Turkey. That must also be verified. I'd like to hear from the cabinet what's possible there. However, I am not of the line that says: oh, there are signals, so let's stop everything, with all the risks of that. I find that irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u80	It's all very early, but developments are going to be positive in all honesty. Where a few weeks ago, on average, a few thousand asylum seekers crossed the border a day, a few dozen are currently coming from Turkey to Greece. Last week we also saw the first boats sailing back from Greece to Turkey. The Netherlands also included 31 Syrians last week, in return for those who have been sent back. Those are quite different numbers than we've been used to in the past few months. This potential success now has many fathers, but the hardest thing is that we are not yet there with this agreement. We can already see that smugglers are going to choose alternative routes now that the main route through Turkey is closed. This week there were reports that the route through Italy is becoming popular again. Austria has reinforced border controls in preparation for a reason. Therefore, according to the VVD one more step is needed. As long as the whole world can apply for asylum here, the huge flow of migrants will remain. And we can't handle that. We cannot maintain our extensive social services with such influx. We already have a lot of problems with the integration of the guest workers and their children. Allowing large groups of people with similar backgrounds is not going to help. Large groups don't integrate, they segregate. That is why we need to adapt the international conventions that give everyone the right to asylum in Europe. Every continent must take responsibility for the refugees from its own region. As long as Europe is an alternative, many refugees, such as those from Africa, will nevertheless be able to make the dangerous crossing to Europe. I understand these people, but precisely because it is so understandable, it is also clear that we need to intervene. The fact is that alternative routes will continue to exist as long as international conventions continue to give asylum rights in Europe. The only solution is therefore to amend these conventions in such a way that this right lapses. We're gonna have to take that extra step. It is a step that some might think is going too far now, but if we have learned something in the past year, it is that major problems require far-reaching solutions. Solutions that were previously unthinkable have now been introduced. This Prime Minister has shown that we can offer such solutions, and this will also be necessary in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u81	I suggest you finish your contribution first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u82	We all know here that the agreements with Turkey are not the end of the refugee crisis. If we are to avoid far-reaching tensions in the Netherlands, we must recognise that the end of support in society is in sight. This week's messages indicate that, too. Even now that the influx has dropped dramatically, municipalities have difficulty finding the necessary places. Many people wonder whether in ten to twenty years' time the Netherlands will know the achievements and freedoms that we now consider so normal and important. That is why it is so important that the agreement with Turkey has been reached. This seems to enable us to control the main route to Europe. However, we cannot afford to sit back now. Further steps are needed. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, no action is excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u83	I was surprised to see how Mr Zijlstra wiped out his own weird Turkey deal in an hour, because he succumbed immediately after some left-wing pressure to release an independent investigation on the Turks. I wonder what Erdogan thinks of that. But I have one more question about this weird Turkey deal. Mr Zijlstra indicated that boats are now returning from Greece to Turkey. Does he know how many Syrian asylum seekers were on those boats?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u84	No, I don't know the exact number.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u85	Zero. An important part of this strange deal is that all Syrian asylum seekers would be sent back from Greece to Turkey. That's not gonna happen! Nothing's happening. That is particularly harsh because the cabinet promised that these Syrian asylum seekers would be rejected in Greece within a few hours, so they would go back. Turns out that's a deception. Why are the VVD, the VVD Secretary of State and the VVD Prime Minister trying to sell such a deal with deception? That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u86	I look at a deal, at appointments always what's on paper and what's on paper is clear. We will stick to that, too, to all aspects. The interruptions sometimes go one way and now they go the other. We have agreements with Turkey. The VVD is always off the line: if you make appointments, you have to keep them. That must also be the case in this case. Only then will the early success that is now also settled, because it is early. If we do this in any way, including in the way Mr Fritsma says, then the house of cards will collapse. That is the last thing we want, because then we will have the big problem of the flow of refugees back on our plate immediately. That's the last thing the VVD wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u87	I just want an answer to the next question. That deal states that Greece is sending Syrian asylum seekers back to Turkey and that the EU will take back one for every Syrian who is returned. What do we see in practice? Not a single one, I repeat: no Syrian asylum seeker has been sent back from Greece to Turkey. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister has already collected dozens of Syrians from Turkey with the approval of the VVD. How is it possible for Mr Zijlstra to accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u88	We have a fairly clear agreement with Turkey: for the Syrian refugees who go back, we take one-on-one Syrian refugee from the refugee camps in Turkey. The deal's up. Where it is not exactly the same on a daily basis, it is simply discontaminated with each other. That agreement is being implemented, and we are not going to violate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u89	The VVD has adopted an air bridge, which the PvdA has been asking for for months, to pick up Syrians from Turkey. That is in itself crazy, but it would only begin if Syrians were sent back from Greece to Turkey, but that is not happening at all! So we are now faced with the bizarre situation that the VVD is okay with the fact that no Syrian is going back from Greece to Turkey and that dozens of Syrians are being brought to the Netherlands by the Prime Minister. It's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u90	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u91	Look at the facts. It's crazy that the VVD is okay with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u92	That's bullshit! We have very clear agreements: we are going to take back one-on-one people. And yes, if Mr Fritsma wants to hear that: if you start looking at everything on a daily basis, it will not be the same. No, that's gonna be a little tricky in terms of execution. But the agreement is clear and so it will be implemented: for Syrian refugees who go back, people come here. If it hadn't happened before, it would have happened. I would like to hear what I have to say to the cabinet, but I have no doubt that it will be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u93	Finalizing, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u94	In conclusion: look at the facts!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u95	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u96	The cabinet has promised that Syrian asylum seekers will be sent back from Greece to Turkey within a few hours. That's for everyone to read. That's not gonna happen! Turns out it's pure deception. No one's going back. No Syrian asylum seeker goes back to Turkey. I regret that the VVD tries to sell such a deal with pure deception. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u97	Let Mr Fritsma stop for once. The appointments are just very clear. These kind of smoke signals are........................................................................................................................................................ The appointments are clear. The number of Syrians is falling enormously, because there are almost no more people crossing. So the one-on-one agreement doesn't create large flows of refugees this way either, because you don't have to do one-on-one with people who don't cross anymore. That was the whole idea of this deal. Undoubtedly, the numbers will not be the same on a daily basis, but it will not be the case that people from refugee camps come here, when no people have been sent back. That won't be the end result of the calculation. It's gonna go straight to zero. I just don't think I'm going to convince Mr Fritsma, but that was probably the case before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr Zijlstra mentioned the important point of the treaties that need to be amended. This is desirable in the Netherlands. I believe that we wanted it for the first time in the Chamber in 2000. Internationally, however, it is difficult. The CDA asked the Prime Minister at the beginning of the Presidency whether he was prepared to recruit for this during the Presidency. He said there were more important things to do. Will Mr Zijlstra support me if I call on the Prime Minister to do so again today? Because now that is possible and the Netherlands will no longer be President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u99	I do not think that the most important treaty on which matters should be dealt is the Refugee Convention. Anything I just said can be within the current Refugee Convention. You don't have to adapt to that at all. The biggest problem is the European Treaty. We have certainly been there since we had the cozy referendum with a slight challenge, but that treaty will still have to be amended. The agreements currently in force in Europe have been made in a completely different era. They need to be adapted to the present time. So that's what I'm very much for. That's what I was there for, and that's what I'm here for. It always depends on how it is written down, but on the basic idea we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u100	It was a little fast for me. Mr Zijlstra said that we should go back to accommodating our own people in a region of the world. This means that Mr Zijlstra and the VVD Group believe that only European refugees should be received in Europe. My specific question is then what Mr Zijlstra is doing with the resolution programme that we now know and which is even part of the Turkey deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u101	We presented a plan last year of which resolution is part. Now we're in a different phase. We made agreements with Turkey which are in line with what we said then. There's gotta be something to that. It is not going to work if we say to Turkey alone: we are closing the borders; good luck with it; we are not doing anything. That is also apparent from the agreements we have made. If we look further than we do now, we will see some practical problems. There has been a large flow of refugees from Libya, and it is now coming again. That flow of refugees is controlled by IS. ISIS makes money from human trafficking. That also brings with it all kinds of security issues. Only, Libya is a total anarchy. Frankly, the West has also contributed to this. Mr Pechtold said very euphemistically that Libya has four governments, but actually it is just anarchy. It's very difficult to make appointments with an anarchy. So we will also have to look at why people are coming here in a different way. They do so because they can enter an asylum procedure. I am sorry to leave this to Mr Voordewind, but there is often the following. Those people end up in an asylum procedure. The people who really are refugees are assigned. That's fine. It's just that other things happen. A lot of people who are rejected go into illegality. There are always parties, and the Christian Union is unfortunately often at the forefront of those who say that these people are rooted in society because they have had children. Then we need a general's pardon. And so people keep coming because they can go into the asylum procedure. If that's one of the root causes, the main causes, you have to have the courage to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u102	This is one of the consequences of the signing of the Refugee Convention. If you want to comply with this, you're really gonna have to cancel the Refugee Convention. Let me get this straight: I understand that the Azmani plan is now in the trash can. Because in the Azmani plan, Mr Azmani is here, and indeed there is still a settlement from the region. That's not ruled out. In fact, if the borders in Europe were to close, I know the plan by heart, there could be substantial resolution from the region. Mr Zijlstra is now saying that we are going to close Europe's borders on a massive scale and that we are not going to talk about resolution anymore. That's clear. That's a new plan, the Zijlstra plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u103	I'm not saying that at all. That's a crazy conclusion. The Azmani plan stands first and foremost proudly. In fact, it's far-reaching. Secondly, we are talking about further steps. You can't make that kind of deal with every country. The Refugee Convention does not state that every refugee in Europe must be taken care of. The Refugee Convention says you have to protect refugees. As far as we are concerned, this protection must take place in our own region. That's also in the Azmani plan. We continue to say that, even in such a situation, you always have resettlement programmes through UNHCR or through the United Nations. That's what we're doing right now. That's a responsibility you can always take on yourself. It is independent of the right to asylum. Many people, whether from Argentina, Swaziland or Thailand, come here, say they want asylum and go into the procedure. For a lot of people, that's a reason to come our way. So you have to do something about the right to asylum. If you're afraid to do that, you're gonna keep an uncontrolled migration flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr. Chairman. The EU-Turkey agreement has come to fruition. It's the first time the Chamber has talked about it after it's in progress. It will be no secret that the Christian Union was against the Turkey deal, simply because it could have been different and better, also to prevent boat trips. We could have just organized a settlement program at the Turkish-Greek border and no one would have had to take those boats. But Europe was not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr Zijlstra, Mr Voordewind has just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm still in the flow. Mr Klaver has said something like this in the past. Then I asked him the question that I now put to Mr Voordewind. Mr Voordewind says: organize a legal migration settlement flow from Turkey, because then the people do not have to be on the boat. Does Mr Voordewind say that the illegal boats, the illegal flow, must be stopped? Or, like Mr Klaver at the time, he says: no, we are doing something about the legal flow, but we are not doing anything about the illegal flow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u107	Refugees would be crazy if they took their children on such a boat if Europe had organised a resettlement programme in Turkey. When the Syrian crisis had just begun, I tabled a motion here to increase the resettlement programme which Mr Zijlstra's group was very enthusiastic about from 500 to 750. Please note: 250 extra and they were Syrian refugees. The VVD voted against. Had we then organised a legal route through Turkey, they would never have taken those boats. In fact, I agree with Mr Zijlstra. I was also at the border in Macedonia. I saw 7,000 people come in one day. Then I also told the fellow organisations that what happened there was unimaginable. We should have settled it in Turkey, on the Turkish-Greek border. We would then have simply launched the resolution programme which Mr Zijlstra is also enthusiastic about from the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u108	That's a bit of a crazy argument, because it said no to 250 extra refugees. Then we talked about 7,000 a day. That's a bit of a weird equation. But Mr Voordewind has not answered my question. Mr Voordewind says that our solution is an official resolution programme for legal power, which can be used. There are also people who do not go by that route, even though we would like to. They do not qualify for the limited number of places, because that is not unlimited. If they take the boat and cross to Greece, will Mr Voordewind send them back or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u109	Europe should have organised hotspots much earlier. My group has also argued in favour of this. Greece did not want to participate in this at first, but we insisted on this in the Chamber. A selection at the gate was then organised at the external borders of Europe. We could have done the same in Turkey at the Turkish-Greek border. People might have taken a boat, but they wouldn't have gotten any further than Greece. Now they walked for months along the Balkan route in the direction of Germany. It would have been different, but no one in Greece wanted to do so, and here in the Chamber they did not want to come to the resolution programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u110	I'm making a third attempt to get an answer to my question. Suppose someone is so naughty not to do what Mr Voordewind expects, namely to wait for an official resolution programme. I can imagine people wouldn't do that. If you're just not with those numbers and you want to go to Europe, you can sit on that boat with all the risks. If people do that and they come to Greece, will Mr Voordewind send them back or not? Will he close that illegal route, or will he say, "Once you're inside, you can still go into the asylum procedure?" If that happens, two routes have been created: a legal route that comes on top of the illegal route. Then Mr Voordewind is farther away from home than he is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u111	If we had organized the selection at the gate in Italy, I have been to Lampedusa, where the people were also coming in massively, we would also have said that the people who did not qualify for or were rejected should return. Then they would have counted their knots, and perhaps they would not have made the crossing. Much fewer people would have taken a boat if we had organized hotspots and selection criteria in Turkey on the Greek border. There would have been far fewer victims; I believe that more than 2,000 or 3,000 people have already been drowned in the Mediterranean. We could have prevented this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u112	It's nice to get an answer; I'm tasting it by now. In fact, Mr Voordewind says that people who still make the illegal crossing and apply for asylum are simply coming into procedure. They won't be sent back. So you've got two streams.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u113	We send people back, too. When people arrive in Ter Apel, they come into procedure. If the IND and the decision-makers find that they are not entitled to asylum or refugee status, people will be returned. To some countries this cannot be done, because they are war countries. I refer, for example, to Iraq, although Mr Zijlstra believes that this can be done. However, we cannot force people to return to Iraq. However, people are being sent back to other countries. I also said at Lesbos and Chios that it makes sense for people from the Maghreb to be returned. However, they are entitled to a procedure, even if they arrive in Greece, but if they are rejected, they must return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u115	A number of Syrians have just been referred back to Turkey. Does the Prime Minister recognize that the Turks might be having a perverse incentive? If they allow many Syrians to go to Greece, this actually means that Europe must allow much more resettlement from Turkey to Europe. Does the Prime Minister recognize that perverse incentive? According to the deal, the Refugee Convention must be respected. Turkey was not yet a safe third country before the deal, but I understand that it has suddenly become a safe country on paper. We have shared the messages from Amnesty International. The Syrian Human Rights Observatory has also laid down a document in support of the fact that Turkish border guards shot at least 16 refugees, including three children. UNHCR has referred to the forced expulsion of 16 Afghans without pre-empting an asylum procedure. Can the Prime Minister promise that UNHCR will be the most important organisation to monitor when Greece's refugees return to Turkey? I am not just talking about the Syrian refugees, but about all the refugees. I ask the Prime Minister what happens now to the Iraqis, the Jezidis and the Christians who fled Iraq. We know the footage from two years ago, from the mountains in Sinjar. We were very involved in the genocide that took place at that time. What happens to the Jezidi girls who apply for asylum in Turkey? Are they being sent back to Iraq, too? In fact, the Turkey deal is only about the resettlement programme for Syrian refugees who want to go to Europe. So the Iraqis are not included. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister on this point. Then I'll go into the reports from Amnesty International. We've just had an interrupting debate. I also direct Mr Zijlstra's questions to the Prime Minister. Is he also in favour of an independent investigation following the reporting on the forced return of Syrian refugees to Syria? I would like to see a broadening of this to the Iraqis and Afghans. Until recently, they were the largest group. Is the Prime Minister prepared to put that into effect? Last Tuesday, the Foreign Minister announced an investigation to be carried out by the European Commission. What's the outcome of that? After all, the Commission would also investigate this. When will Greece have its affairs in order? In Europe we knew the Dublin claim. However, it did not apply to Greece because the asylum procedure in Greece could not be guaranteed. When will this be the case? Which European countries are actually going to participate in the relocation from Greece and the resettlement programme from Turkey? The Turkey deal does not mention specific numbers or countries. They are not in the letter we received just before this debate today. Then I come to visa liberalisation. We're getting very close to July 1st. Of course, they're being held a sausage. It was supposed to be over on July 1st. We know about the 72 conditions. The trial's been going on for three years. Is it not fair to say to the Turks that 1 July will simply not be met? I would like to have clarity on this point. Finally, I would like to ask a question about the waterbed effect, which ended the last interruption debate. Is there going to be a Libya deal or is there going to be a Turkey deal? How are we dealing with that now? Yesterday, the first more than 2,000 refugees arrived in Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mr. Chairman. A common approach is crucial in this refugee crisis. The fact that we have to work with Turkey is geographical realism. My group did, however, set conditions for the agreements in question, as did many of my colleagues. These conditions would safeguard the rights of people fleeing war. I am very concerned about these conditions at the moment, because I am hearing disturbing reports. The Greek hotspots turn into detention centers. Asylum seekers are deported without proper procedure. Yesterday, the news came that Turkey is actively sending refugees back to Syria, while the cabinet previously denied this and seemed blindly to rely on information from Turkey. Why didn't the Cabinet investigate this further? There were even reports of targeting Syrians trying to cross the border. The Foreign Minister responded briefly to these messages. Turkey strongly denies it. He does not have any indication that refugees are being shot at. My group finds it hard to believe that these agreements simply continue without serious research, especially now that journalistic research has shown that there is an active deployment to Syria. I have just asked you in the case of interruption: is the Prime Minister prepared to advocate an independent monitoring of the implementation of these agreements, not only for European supervision, but also for monitoring by others such as the UNHCR? I am thinking here of a special rapporteur. With all these major problems, it is all the more worrying that these agreements have not been submitted to the House of Representatives or the European Parliament. Has an informal agreement been deliberately chosen instead of an official treaty which would not put the European Parliament out of play? The European Union simply needs to provide more support to get the Greek system in order. Minister Koenders has already called for this, but how are we going to ensure that it really is delivered? Nor should we forget that Turkey already provides shelter to more than 2.5 million refugees. European support is therefore only logical. My group sees the importance of a joint approach, but we object to this way of implementing it. There is now a rush to evictions, without complying with international law conditions. That is why my group has already tabled a motion calling for the suspension of implementation. I appeal once again to the cabinet: stop expulsions to Turkey until both Greece and Turkey have put their affairs in order. Let us ensure that there is sufficient European support to achieve this. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister. My group also had concerns about mixing agreements on refugees with agreements on visa-free travel and accession to the European Union. The many requirements Turkey has to meet seem far from being met. Terrorism legislation does not comply with European standards. Judicial cooperation, for example, is far from being in order. Does the cabinet really expect all these requirements to be met by 1 June 2016? When is the next progress report due? Will we get a comprehensive cabinet response as soon as possible? The agreements, as they now lie and are being implemented, are unworthy of Europe. First, make sure that there is sufficient support from the European Union so that Greece can get everything in order. Make sure Turkey does comply with the Refugee Convention. Ensure independent investigation of reports of human rights violations. Make sure, especially in the role of European President, that there are now serious commitments from Member States on resettlement. And until then, stop turning off and stop detaining. Finally. We are talking about the European approach today, but let us not forget that there are already a lot of people in the Netherlands. That is why it is our responsibility to work together to ensure decent care and good integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet quacks from low to low. Everyone can see that. One of the last examples of this is, of course, the wretched asylum deal that the EU has concluded with Turkey. Unfortunately, that deal has come about with enthusiastic support from the Prime Minister. The PVV sees that as a historical mistake. The Prime Minister simply gave the fate of the Dutch people out of his hands to the unreliable Turkish tyrant Erdogan. This is a first-order weakness, because the cabinet itself cannot do anything and the EU itself cannot do anything. Turkey is now the big winner of the deal and is on the buttons. Erdogan knows that and can now blackmail it. He demands his rewards as a matter of urgency, and those rewards don't lie about it. He gets billions of euros, he gets an insight into Turkey's accession to the EU and, as a blow, visa-free travel for all Turks who want to go to EU countries. This means that, in addition to the current asylum influx, we will also have a Turkish invasion. That, and only that, is the only certainty this deal offers. 80 million Turks will soon be able to move in this direction without having to take the threshold of an asylum application and without complying with the corresponding conditions. 400,000 Turks in the Netherlands can easily invite neighbors, cousins, brothers and acquaintances to come here and that is often the start of illegal stay in the Netherlands. Frontex also confirms that more and more illegal immigrants come from countries that no longer have a visa requirement for the EU. With Turkey, the "bed-bath-bread resorts" of this cabinet will soon be extremely busy. Islamization is also, of course, in a higher gear. This is all the more true if all Turks will soon be able to establish themselves as future EU nationals in Western Europe and in the Netherlands, because that nightmare scenario is deliberately set in motion by this cabinet. This deal with Turkey does not guarantee any reduction in migration flows to the EU and the Netherlands. Migration routes simply change with the result that only a waterbed effect occurs. Reports are already coming in that some 200,000 migrants are about to make their way back to the EU from Libya. Nevertheless, the cabinet as one of the first to start taking over Syrians from Turkey. The PvdA has been dreaming of such an air bridge for months and that air bridge has already started. There are dozens of Syrians who have been transferred to the Netherlands without them, as I have just said to Mr Zijlstra, that even one Syrian asylum seeker has been sent back to Turkey by Greece. Even according to the deal made, that's not the point. The Netherlands is therefore once again completely unnecessary in the front to bring asylum seekers here. Moreover, the cabinet also acts as one of the few in Europe. Other countries are looking forward to setting up such an air bridge for Syrians. So the Prime Minister is really pulling everything out of the closet to be the crazy Gerritje of Europe. All in all, the deal proves that this cabinet is doing exactly what the Dutch people do not want. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to finally take matters into his own hands. Stop making the Dutch citizens dependent on the EU and Erdogan. Do so by closing the Dutch borders and not allowing any more asylum seekers. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u118	Then what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u119	That's a short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u120	That's what I've just completed. The Netherlands should not rely on a failing EU and on a villain like Erdogan. That's the worst thing you can do. You don't have to, because you can take matters into your own hands by closing the Dutch borders. You can use the Marechaussee and our defense to guard the borders. In this way, asylum seekers, as well as terrorists, can be stopped. That is what the Netherlands must do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u121	We have hundreds of kilometres of border, 400 official border crossings, sea and airports, and the PVV still insists that you can make it waterproof, so that no human being will get through it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u122	Of course. The Netherlands has tens of thousands of soldiers. You would really wrong those soldiers if you said that they would not be able to guard the Dutch borders. Of course they are capable of doing so. If you also ensure that there is no more asylum reception in the Netherlands and no more asylum procedure, as the PVV wants, then of course people will no longer come to the Netherlands. You often talk about the refugee treaty, but what you do not say is that it can simply be unilaterally denounced. If we don't have asylum shelter or asylum procedure, people won't come here anymore. The Dutch military and the Dutch military are indeed able to guard our borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u123	Every day, 400,000 cars move across the Dutch border; 400,000! Let's think about what it would mean to our economy if we had to control all those cars. That's something you can think of. In 2010, but also in 2011 and 2012, the PVV was one of the coalition partners in the Rutte I cabinet. She supported the VVD and the CDA. Even then, the PVV said she didn't want any refugees. Yet more than 16,000 refugees entered this country under your responsibility. Not only do you promise fairy tales for the future, but your results from the past are worthless.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u124	It is the fear of the D66 Group that border controls would be detrimental to the economy. Let's see what open borders cost: about €36,000 per asylum seeker. Let us look at the pressure on social services such as benefits, housing and health care. They cost money, as I say to Mr Pechtold. The collapse of the Dutch economy with border controls is ridiculous nonsense. Look at the controls between Canada and the United States of America. There, too, is always monitored and the economy has not collapsed. So border controls are and cannot be detrimental to the economy. I hear all kinds of mumbling from the benches, but I didn't get that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u125	In any case, you have invited Mr Zijlstra to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u126	In case Mr Fritsma didn't understand, that border between America and Canada is as leaky as a basket. You're gonna walk right over that. Mr Fritsma commented on the agreements reached with Turkey, including their content. Can he explain why his group agreed to visa liberalisation with Turkey in October 2011? He obviously forgot that in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u127	I am really glad that Mr Zijlstra came up with that, because he came up with this nonsense last time. I checked, but it doesn't add up. The letter quoted by the VVD Group states quite literally that visa liberalisation is not the issue. That's what that letter says. That's for everyone to check out. I've been looking a little further, too. Where were the votes on visa liberalisation? They were discussed in the European Parliament, to be precise on 12 March 2014. Then, unlike the VVD Group, the PVV Group voted neatly against that visa liberalisation. It is your problem, I say to Mr Zijlstra. The VVD did not vote against that visa liberalisation. So please don't shove it in our shoes!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr Fritsma also does not hear me saying that we voted against it. We set that in motion at the time. I still stand for that. So don't rub at me that I didn't do something that I didn't do. We have done so with full awareness. That letter clearly states that we are starting the path towards visa liberalisation. I checked, just like Mr Fritsma. There has been nothing, no VAO and no decision from the PVV. She didn't say "ho, we don't want this." It is therefore wonderful that the PVV in the European Parliament has apparently voted against, but it has done nothing at the start of the project. Then Mr Fritsma can keep nice stories. He may have been sleeping that can happen, I'd like to forgive him, but don't go loving those big stories here when it comes to these appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u129	I'm sorry, but this is just deception. Apparently, the VVD Group can only be deceived in this type of debate. What happened? The letter that Mr Zijlstra refers to says that visa liberalisation has not been discussed. There has indeed been a motion by Mr De Krom calling for this not to be started. The PVV Group voted in favour of this. But again, the most important thing is that the PVV Group in the European Parliament, where the decision was really taken, voted against visa liberalisation, as one of the few parties. As usual, the VVD group has opened the gates to anyone who wants to come to the Netherlands. That is today's VVD, that was yesterday's VVD and that will unfortunately also be the VVD of the future, by letting everyone in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u130	Mr. Chairman. After months of negotiations, there is finally a migration agreement. I'd better start at the end. Considering everything, the SGP welcomes that on balance. If this approach is successful, the pay model of smugglers will be frustrated. The SGP has called for this from the very beginning of the problem with the boat refugees. I would like to make a point: we are certainly not happy with the way in which the agreement was reached. We have a strong impression that Turkey is using the misery of refugees to bring its own political goals closer, over the back of the weakest, so to speak. The success of the agreements in the longer term remains to be seen in practice. As far as we are concerned, this will in any case require coordinated action by the Member States of the European Union and Turkey together. My first question is therefore how this agreement will be implemented. How is it ensured that the objectives set are actually achieved? This monitoring also includes the serious accusations made to Turkey that refugees are returning to their country of origin. That's a form of deportation. The question is, therefore, how can the Member States and the European Commission, in conjunction with Turkey, ensure that Turkey does indeed comply with the conditions? Of course, it is not to be expected that this deal will suddenly put an end to all the problems, but to suspend the agreements because of incidents, is, in our opinion, a form of panic football that will put the real solution further out of reach. The SGP supports European support for Greece in the form of border guards, asylum experts, interpreters. This support is based on the needs of the Commission and Greece. We also support the Dutch contribution through a border security team and through bilateral humanitarian aid. Is the current Dutch contribution sufficient and proportionate to this? Asylum applications from refugees must be assessed individually and thoroughly, even there at that border. Only after that can an application for asylum be declared unfounded or inadmissible. In addition, Turkey must work vigorously to receive refugees with dignity. That is why the country needs European support. This support is not based on trust, but on concrete and verifiable project applications in areas such as health, education, reception and food. Can the Prime Minister indicate for which specific projects Turkey is currently receiving money for? We hear all kinds of cheerful stories about projects that would run, but here too I need more concrete insight. It is important that Turkey does not violate the principle of non-refoulement. Refugees should also be able to apply for asylum in Turkey. Non-Syrians, such as Iranians and Pakistani, are not always sure of their country of origin, for example because of their Christian faith. To what extent does Turkey fulfil these conditions? Moreover, reception in other countries in the region, such as Lebanon and Jordan, remains of great importance. Political and financial support to these countries is as important as support to Turkey in order to maintain the stability of those countries. What is the situation with regard to support for Libya in this regard? In what way does the government encourage Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States to be reminded of their responsibilities in this regard, namely reception in the region? On a number of points, the SGP Group remains unclear about this deal. For example, I wonder what the alternative is for the one-to-one mechanism as the numbers to send back the 22,500 or so migrants. Over the 54.000. What exactly does the government mean by "upgrading the customs union with Turkey"? I'd like an explanation. The SGP is, and continues to be, extremely bad at the agreements with Turkey regarding visa liberalisation. There is no reason to expect Turkey to meet all the criteria by the end of June. It seems better to be clear about this and say: we are going to stop doing this. The same applies to the opening of chapters in the context of the enlargement process. Even if Turkey ever met the benchmarks, accession could never be the case in our view. So close those chapters. And with this, I also conclude my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u131	Mr. Chairman. A historic moment in a historic situation, with indeed more refugees than ever before. It is something that makes us jointly look for solutions to the problems that this entails. Unfortunately, however, this is also the moment when the United Nations Convention on Refugees is being buried by political leaders who are too scared and who are too much lit by cynical populism to dare to explain that Europe and the Netherlands must also contribute their stone at this time. After years of austerity, to shake off the discontent of the people in the country and the disgust of politics among the people, one chooses to appoint a scapegoat: the refugees. We just heard the PVV do it. I also heard Mr Zijlstra do it earlier. I found his comments which seemed to indicate that he personally considered the VVD to be responsible for building the welfare state, the best joke this year so far. If it weren't all so nasty and cynical, I would have laughed about it. That is why this deal has been reached, both among us and with Turkey. It is a dirty deal that violates human rights, buries the refugee treaty alive and rewards the President of Turkey for bad behavior. That's how he strengthens his power. It is a President who is becoming more and more a dictator, one who would like to hear from the European Union and its enlightened and progressive ideals, but who is now locking up critical journalists and even running against freedom of expression in Germany. I wonder how the Prime Minister thinks that these steps by the Union, including speeding up negotiations with Turkey on accession to the European Union, will contribute to the fight he wishes to wage for European values such as freedom of the press. These are matters on which the Heads of Government rightly used great words after the attack on Charlie Hebdo, more than a year ago. And what do we do now? They are now making deals with someone like Erdogan. Can we expect prosecution from LuckyTV in the future? I can't wait to hear it. And that's only one side of the deal. The other side is that with this deal, Europe is shrugging its shoulders on human suffering. Where the international community should cooperate in humanitarian crises such as these in order to respect human rights at all times and anywhere in the world, the largest party in this country says: get the hell out of here with your refugees. The other side is that the European Union's value for human rights and the protection of refugees is being thrown overboard. It's the strongest piece of "not in my backyard" thinking I've seen in this house in years. Most refugees must stay away! See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil! In all the sections of my party that I have visited over the past few months and weeks, I have been asked the same question: but why is the European Union doing this? The answer, I believe, is because the European Heads of Government will be off the problem. I can't make it any prettier. That is the reality of the VVD/PvdA cabinet, unimaginable but true. All aid organisations, NGOs, the UHNCR and the EU Commissioner for Human Rights warn about the substantive agreements in this deal and the consequences they will have. That is not surprising, because the way things are going on on the Greek islands, the fact that people are being detained and returned to Turkey is illegal. After all, Turkey does not meet the requirements for a safe third country, which was literally requested in the Klever/Roemer motion. Can the Prime Minister reflect on that? Why could we not wait any longer to implement the agreements with Turkey? Why was it not first ensured that the asylum procedures in Greece are in order? Why is there no waiting for the Turkish laws to be amended, which would give returned refugees the protection they need? How is the food supply in the Greek detention centres progressing? Is it true that the cabinet believes that NGOs are responsible for this? That would be absurd, wouldn't it? And how is the investigation of the shelling by the Turks of refugees who wanted to cross the border with Syria progressing as well as the investigation into the return of refugees from Turkey to Syria? I hope that this is a priority for our government, but in all honesty: I fear that this will not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u132	Mr Pechtold just asked Mr Fritsma and I am now asking Mrs Gesthuizen: what is it? What solution does the SP propose for the refugee problem and for everything we have seen around it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u133	I have, of course, already exchanged this in part in the little debate with Mr Zijlstra. If we want to ensure that there is no degrading situation on European soil or in the countries of the region around Syria, and if we want to do our utmost to prevent it as much as possible, we will have to explain, with your Prime Minister and our Prime Minister first, what is going on. There are 60 million refugees worldwide. That's not fun for anyone, it's not fun for those refugees in the last place. But Europe and the Netherlands will have to play their part, and that means that we must make an immediate effort to extend the resettlement programme. That is what the UNHCR has asked us to do. The UNHCR is asking us to resettle half a million people from the region around Syria and to ensure that an important part of those people will also be a place in Europe. It'll relieve the region. We're not there yet! I am right in saying this, because I know exactly what Mr Zijlstra's follow-up question will be: and do you want to allow a stream of illegal immigrants in the meantime? "Illegal migration" is the way in which the VVD qualifies the flow of migrants, the flow of refugees. This does not, of course, put an end to the arrival of refugees in Europe, but what you do do with taking over half a million people from the region around Syria is relieve that region. In doing so, you will also ensure that the reception situation for the people who are left behind in the region is improved, which is still 80 to 90% of the refugees. If you combine that with development cooperation and with fair trade, Mr Zijlstra may sound a little strange, but it is really necessary at this time, then you can make sure that the flow of refugees is actually contained in the long term, even if it is not a solution for today or tomorrow. That is a much less cynical and, as far as I am concerned, a much more humane solution, which all people worldwide deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u134	Fair trade seems to me to be extremely good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u135	You're just never for that, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u136	That seems extremely good to me. Whether the SP is for fair trade will be seen in the discussion of the trade agreements. If I understand correctly, Mrs Gesthuizen, on behalf of the SP, says that the SP therefore thinks that a resettlement programme should bring half a million people to Europe, on top of the flow of refugees coming from Turkey via boats. That's what I hear her say. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u137	Unfortunately, Mr Zijlstra does not know the figures enough. That's okay. The UNHCR has asked for about half a million people to resettle exactly a few tens of thousands less from the region around Syria. This does not have to be done only in Europe. Other countries, such as Canada, are undoubtedly well aware of this example, as Mr Zijlstra has certainly taken on all their responsibilities in this respect. That half a million people do not necessarily have to come to Europe. The word cynical has been used many times, but it is also pure and blind selfishness, let me call it that, when you say: get lost with your 60 million refugees, we are happy with everything, as long as they do not come here. That is the attitude that the VVD group shows here every time, and unfortunately with pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u138	I wonder what happened to the SP. In the time of Jan Marijnissen, who made the party great, the SP had a good sense of the fact that the Netherlands in Europe are unable to cope with 60 million refugees and all the suffering of the world here, because this is at the expense of the SP voters in those neighbourhoods in the cities. Of course, we have a responsibility as Europe and as the Netherlands to the rest of the world. We are not avoiding them either, but the picture that is outlined here, as if we are going to be able to solve all these problems here and that we have to do so... I'd love to. Mrs Gesthuizen may call it cynical or selfish, I think it's all wonderful what she says about it, but we still have the responsibility in the past, once upon a time, the SP under Jan Marijnissen also took it to ensure that we make it manageable and that we also protect the welfare state, which we have all built up here. Apparently, unfortunately, I have to conclude from Mrs Gesthuizen's contribution, the SP is completely off that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u139	Unfortunately, not a very good knowledge of the figures. Of the 60 million refugees worldwide, 40 million are still in their own country. Only 20 million people have sought refuge elsewhere. Of course, 20 million people are indeed a lot of people, especially if they all drift, but related to the total world population, it is not, relatively speaking, an insurmountable problem if we as an international community were to assume our responsibilities. Of those 20 million people, about 80 to 90% remain in their own region, and that is how we have seen over the years, always in the poorest countries in the world. Of course, the VVD didn't need these refugees to break down the welfare state in the Netherlands. The VVD had done all that a long time ago, but they did come out well now. If Mr Zijlstra had listened a little bit to my speech rather than to sit around with Mr Haersma Buma, he would also have heard that I have long been blaming him for this in my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u140	Now Mr Buma is being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u141	Well, Mr. Chairman. It was just the way it was. I do not blame Mr Buma, but Mr Zijlstra did, because that was the one I spoke to in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u142	It's either Buma or Van Haersma Buma, but never Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u143	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Then it's Mr. Buma. He's right to say that. The VVD didn't need that flow of refugees at all, but what the VVD has done is save many billions itself. This has been passed on to the most vulnerable people, including by selling, selling and not investing in the stock of social housing here. Now a number of refugees are coming to the Netherlands. Admittedly, that presents us with challenges. But now you're blaming the refugees for that. I think that's very ugly to see, even when you're laughing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mr. Chairman. This beautiful cartoon actually says everything. I'll explain. We made a vile and very dangerous deal with a Turkish dictator, a tyrant who abolished freedom of speech in his own country and even wants to lock up comedians in Germany. It is clear once again: Turkey does not belong in the EU, never. A huge majority agrees with us. Almost three quarters of the Dutch judge the agreements with Turkey as bad, but it doesn't matter to our Prime Minister. He considers the opinion of mad Angela more important than that of the Dutch people. We're going to spend 6 billion euros on the Turks. Over the back of migrants, Turkey is blackmailing itself into the EU. In a few months, Turks will be able to travel visa-free, leading to a new uncontrollable wave of migration. And that is when there is no guarantee that Turkey will actually limit the influx of asylum. After all, the number of lucky seekers entering Europe is still increasing compared to last year. A great failure is in the making. Frontex warned that a staggering number of IS fighters are entering Europe. EU policy is a major threat to our national security. Brussels now even wants an EU asylum system. We say: look at Juncker, Timmermans and all the other unelected Eurocrats. We do not need more, but much less EU. I'm glad that's going the right way. We see crisis after crisis. The total collapse of the EU project is getting closer and that is good news for the Netherlands. I would now like to hand over the cartoon to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u145	You can, but you'll have to do it through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u146	Mr. Chairman. Put an end to the drowning, to the smuggling of human beings, to the human tragedies that have taken place in the Balkans and provide a humane, sustainable and legal asylum route to Europe for those fleeing war and violence. For my group, that was the purpose of the search when Europe faced an unprecedented flow of refugees, thousands of drowning deaths and hundreds of thousands of people walking desolately through Europe. With the Euro Summit agreement, almost a month ago, that answer seems possible. It is not an easy answer, there is no such answer, but it is an answer that can stop the deadly crossings, stop the smuggling of human beings and offer refugees an air bridge towards Europe. Now, after a month, there is reason for cautious optimism. The crossings are falling, the first Syrian families could go through that air bridge to Europe and the imam of Izmir has not had to bury a drowning man since the agreement was reached. But there's at least so much reason to stay extremely alert. The enormous task facing Europe, particularly Greece, can only be carried out if all the agreements are complied with. 50 000 refugees are now waiting in Greece for an answer to the question of their destination. Instead of continuing to walk on the Balkan fields, all these people have applied for or will submit an asylum application. In the case of allocation, the right to stay in Europe, possibly through relocation, applies. That is a start to the sustainable solution as we had it in mind. Then refugees will apply for asylum in Europe upon arrival in Europe. Then they don't have to wander in search of their destination. This means that all these requests must be processed quickly. In the Netherlands, the system was already blocked by 50,000 applications last year and there are now waiting times of many months. In Greece, much worse organized, it has to be much faster. How's that going, I'll ask the cabinet. Is there enough help? Do the authorities manage to persuade refugees to leave the mud of Idomeni and the quay of Piraeus and opt for better shelter? And what does the schedule look like, along which more than 2,000 people we would record, are going to come to the Netherlands? On the islands of Greece, if possible, the task is much greater. Those who are now applying for asylum will have to consider whether their application is admissible or whether they are safe in Turkey. This requires an individual assessment, i.e. per application. This must be done on the basis of the facts before us and in accordance with the European asylum directives. Therefore, referring back to Turkey can only be done if the guarantee is that there is safety there. And not politicians judge that, but judges. That's the rule of law. Politicians are responsible for implementing the agreements, including the agreements with Turkey. If there are reports, such as those from Amnesty International, that these agreements are being violated, then such a point must be clarified and resolved. I would like to hear from the government what it intends to do on this point. In the meantime, there is also a great deal of pressure on shelter on the islands. My group urges the government to ensure that reception on the islands meets and continues to comply with European values. This means that detention is only chosen if it is necessary, and for open residence if it is possible. The developments at Lesbos, where families with young children are now housed in an open shelter, offer a perspective, but there too there is a need for alertness. And then, and then... if we in Greece manage to put the chaos of last year behind us and work towards a humane and orderly asylum policy, we must now look to the future. For the flow of refugees from Turkey, this means a substantial and sustainable resettlement programme as long as the unrest in the region continues, and that will take some time. And what does it mean for North Africa, where hundreds of thousands of people are now getting into boats in despair? The hard truth is that we must remain guilty of an answer to that question for the time being. That's what makes me think. It also makes sense to work, because there will be an answer. This discussion is far from over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u147	The explanation given by Mr Samsom to this deal worries me a great deal. Mr Samsom says: apart from the air bridge that we are going to set up to pick up Syrians from Turkey, people are also given the opportunity to apply for asylum in Greece or in Europe. In addition, he says that these are promising asylum applications. At least that's how I understand him. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u148	This is simply in line with the agreements made between the EU and Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u149	Then there is a lot of light between what Mr Samsom says and what the cabinet says. The cabinet is literally saying 'I have the Acts before me' that all asylum applications from people in Greece are declared inadmissible and that anyone applying for asylum in Greece must be returned. Who am I supposed to believe? What explanation of the deal should I believe? Should I believe Mr Samsom's explanation or should I believe the cabinet's explanation? Explaining those two are just miles apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u150	If the cabinet would like to claim that, I doubt it will be able to do so. Asylum applications are being made in Greece at the moment. Those assessments are currently taking place. For this reason, no Syrian refugees have yet been returned to Turkey; their application has simply not yet been assessed and finalised. If the application is indeed rejected on the basis of the safe third country principle, which is currently allowing Greece to join Turkey in individual cases, that must be determined each time or denied............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The reflection period is then six days and the term of the ruling is about five days. If the appeal is rejected, the refugee is indeed referred back to Turkey. If, in individual cases, the judge, first of all, the asylum expert, you have been one of your own who considers that this refugee has the right to asylum in Europe, then he will receive asylum in Greece and may be eligible for a place elsewhere in Europe under the terms of the relocation. However, he must meet other conditions. That's the deal. That's how they're being carried out now. This is careful, in accordance with international and European law, and we are committed to ensuring that it is done in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u151	We are done with that, I say on behalf of the PVV Group. So what the cabinet said is wrong. It has literally said, through Secretary of State Dijkhoff, that applications from asylum seekers in Greece should not be declared admissible. In fact, a time limit of a few hours is given for this. The person in question is then sent back to Turkey. Now Mr Samsom says that there can be a line through that. He says that this is not true and that people are just entitled to make a promising application for asylum in Greece and in the Netherlands. I say that we are done with this, because in Mr Samsom's explanation we maintain both asylum flows. Anyone who comes to Europe can apply for asylum and has a chance of getting a permit. On top of that, the air bridge from Turkey to the Netherlands to pick up Syrians. So that's what's left of it. Well, we're done with that. If this is the explanation of the deal, I'm very concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u152	To hear what the cabinet said, you really need to discuss with the cabinet. But I know the procedures in force in Greece: the application does not take a few hours, but it takes three days. So we have time for that. That has to do with the declaration of admissibility. That's how we do it in the Netherlands. First, it is assessed whether an application is admissible at all. If this is not the case, the procedure will enter into force. That could indeed end in referral back to Turkey. The difference is that so far, in the heydays, 5,000 people per day have sought refuge on the islands, encouraged by smugglers and despair. Now it's 80 people or fewer people a day. That is because the asylum procedure has finally been rigged. I heard Mr Voordewind say in the debate that he wanted all this to have happened much earlier. I agree with him on that point. However, now that this is happening, I think we should support it. I don't think we should just turn it down because it's too late. Then there will never be a solution. We finally have the opportunity to do something in Greece that is orderly rather than let the Greek word 'chaos' reign.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u153	Of course, it is not just a question of whether these agreements were made too early or too late. It is also a question of how they are carried out. There are rightly concerns right now. At least, my group finds it worrying that there are signs of it more than just signs of human rights violations. A part of these agreements with Turkey is therefore currently in a bad light. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u154	I myself spoke about this in Greece with the Director of the Asylum Service. He said that it is very clear: all facts play a part in the assessment of an application. That's the way it is in the Netherlands. An asylum expert, and in the second instance the judge, has all the facts at his disposal. Amnesty International's reports are signals, but they are also facts. Such a report is an interesting one. Those reports are therefore to be considered when applying for asylum. So they play a part in that. That's for the individual application. I wanted to make sure of that, because I want to make sure that this takes place in accordance with international law and European law rather than through a quick cut-off of people's rights. At the same time, I agree with Mr Pechtold that the political agreement with Turkey must also be respected in general, regardless of the individual agreement. I have already said that I could imagine that the European Commission, if it does not receive a satisfactory or a full or final reply from Turkey, would ask the UNHCR or any other independent organisation to investigate this further. That is always a complicated issue for countries that consider themselves sovereign, but the interests are great and I think we should get out of it. That's the kind of assignment I'd be willing to give to the Cabinet. In fact, I've suggested that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u155	I heard somewhere that Mr. Samsom is going to be on TV with that kind of idea tonight. I will certainly look, but I would also like that to be part of the debate today. Quite a few groups have said that it should not only be done on the basis of such a report, but that there should be monitoring of these agreements. I want to refine it. It must not only be done from Europe and the Commission, because they are important in this whole. I'm not saying they're suspicious about that, but they're interested. I think we should take a broader look. If Mr Samsom suggests that tonight on TV and if that is widely worn here in the Chamber, then I think that is a signal that should also be sent to the cabinet in this debate. Mr Samsom himself now calls the UNHCR. Apart from the report, he felt that the monitoring of the implementation of the agreements should be laid down where it is transparent and with an appropriate organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u156	There are grounds for making this proposal. There are reports from Amnesty International and others that things are not going well on the Eastern Turkish border. There's a war there. Those messages will therefore continue to come for a long time. With that reality, we must all live together. This is a reason to deal with the political agreement reached between Turkey and the EU in a specific way. When it comes to individual asylum assessments and agreements, I am reluctant. That's not what politicians are about. That is what we agreed on in a rule of law. Politicians here don't decide which cell door opens or closes. That's what judges and experts determine, in the case of asylum assessment. I'd like to keep it that way. 5,000 asylum applications have now been made, because of course everyone there has now applied for asylum. I don't blame them. Many of them come from countries where the chances of asylum are rather low. But those applications will also be assessed. It's done by experts and judges. They assess whether someone is safe and therefore inadmissible in their asylum application. If we go between or over that again, it's gonna be complicated. But when it comes to the political agreements we have made with Turkey, there is certainly reason to ask the European Commission to instruct the UNHCR to find out. I think that's a good route.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u157	The problem of human rights violations is wider. It's also about sending it back. Two weeks ago, Mr Samsom said on the message that Turkey is sending refugees back to Syria: this is contrary to everything we stand for; the European Commission must agree with the Turkish authorities that this should stop, otherwise the agreement between the EU and Turkey will simply not happen. I would also like to quote: it may be clear that until Turkey complies with the international conventions, the agreements do not come into force. This is not just for judges, this is for politicians, this is for coalition politicians. Leader of the PvdA, I ask you: the agreements are now in progress, Turkey is violating them. Mr Zijlstra is getting away from that. If you do mention it on TV tonight, I'd like you to just confirm it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u158	I've been doing that for a while. Mr Zijlstra did not crawl away from it. Mr Pechtold made a good attempt to paint that picture, but at least that is with me, but I may not have succeeded in being a very specific listener. We're not getting away from that. He's talking about two weeks ago, but I'm not gonna wait two weeks. Are you out of your mind! This is really about bigger things. The European Commission has already raised this issue twice with the Turkish Government. The Turkish Government has also responded to this. Only, there is reason to ask for an additional guarantee on that. I agree with Mr Pechtold and I would like to say this with ourselves. So that's what we're gonna ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u159	Then I wonder what's in that last sentence: we're going to ask them. We believe that the European Commission is engaged in talks with the Turkish authorities, because the Turks have already said that there would be no forced expulsion to Syria. Does the Labour Party think that Mr Samsom does not think that there are enough serious signals with the Amnesty report to make a pass on the return of refugees? That's possible, isn't it? If they are in proceedings and declared inadmissible, they shall be returned. Does the Labour Party think that it is now too unclear to know that people are not being forced back to Syria? Is he prepared to suspend the Turkey deal for the time being until the UNHCR or other organisations have carried out independent investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u160	The question of whether an individual applicant for asylum who has registered in Greece is safe in Turkey is a judge and an asylum expert in the first instance. That expert will also assess the information we have received. That's right. This is also the case in the Netherlands. The IND assesses asylum applications, among other things, on the basis of official messages and fortunately also on the basis of many other reports. This is also happening in Greece. That situation is now under way. The first assessment has not even been made, let alone the first appeal. But if we are now building a good asylum system in Greece with steam and boiling water, I would not suggest that it is already finished, but there are about twenty times as many experts at the moment, so their numbers are increasing rapidly, we must give it a fair chance, as we do in the Netherlands. There is sometimes a discussion about this, but in the Netherlands we do not decide for a moment that we stop the flow of people from a particular country. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what we do here. In this respect, I would like to do justice to the rule of law, which we all wish to restore on this issue. Mr Voordewind was perhaps the most pronounced in the first term with his cri du coeur. On top of that, we have made agreements with Turkey. They go a lot further too. This has been discussed before: visa liberalisation and other issues. On the basis of these agreements, for example, you can keep each other to respect human rights. Over the last ten years, we have not talked to Turkey. At least that hasn't improved. Maybe we could do that now. Part of this is to instruct the UNHCR to take a good look at it on the basis of the messages. Furthermore, the UNHCR has already indicated that it has 100% access to Syrian refugees in Turkey who are being returned to control their destiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u161	The problem is also the question of whether the UNHCR's monitoring is limited to Syrian refugees or whether it extends to all refugees. I'm just thinking about what I said about the Jezidis in the first term. I'd like to go back to the court ruling. There is a Turkey deal that says that applications are not admissible because they could go back to Turkey. We also have various discussions in the Dutch Parliament. Mr Samsom also briefly spoke with me at the time. Political parties have sometimes spoken of moratoriums here or asked the cabinet to do so. That could also be done in the Turkey deal. As long as we do not have that clarity, which Mr Samsom also wants, we could sit down with the Greeks while the Netherlands is still President and say: let us take a step in the right direction, because we want to avoid sending people back to Turkey, who will end up in those Al-Qaeda camps. That is a political possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u162	We have never done this, with all due respect to Amnesty International, on the basis of an Amnesty International report. We do that on the basis of official reports. That's what it's supposed to be in a rule of law. So is Greece. There goes the same way. This does not mean that Amnesty International's reports and many other organisations do not play a role in assessing an asylum application, initially in assessing whether an application is admissible. Greece has declared that Turkey is a safe third country. That's a general statement. In each individual case, that will have to be assessed. That is why it takes so long, at least it takes me a little too long on those islands. I therefore believe that we have an additional obligation to improve this reception in the meantime. But we're not going to cut corners here in international law. We are not going to take any steps with the European agreements and the European directives on asylum assessment. This means that, in Greece too, you must give the procedure, as we have designed it, the opportunity to work. Let's do that. On top of that, let us not avoid our responsibility if politicians do not escape and monitor political agreements with Turkey, for example by instructing the UNHCR to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u163	I am very pleased that Mr Samsom also sees a role for the UNHCR in this. You have to check the agreements; asking the Turkish authorities friendly questions is not enough to determine what is actually happening there. Mr Samsom said that the basis for this deal lies in the bilateral agreement between Turkey and Greece, namely that Greece has identified Turkey as a safe third country. The question that then arises is whether Mr Samsom does indeed think that Turkey is a safe third country. Given the reports on Syrian refugees in Turkey being returned, given that there is no access to employment and training, especially for refugees who are not Syrians, can you speak of Turkey as a safe third country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u164	There is a great deal to be said about Turkey. I'll be the first to do that. There can be a wide-ranging debate on this. However, the situation in which Syrian refugees find themselves in Turkey is similar to that in which they find themselves in many European countries, including the right to training and the right to work. This does not almost always lead to education or work, but it does not in the Netherlands. At the moment, asylum seekers are simply waiting in Heumensoord, without actually being able to claim civil rights, because the procedures have been stalled and practice does not allow them to work faster. So it is not ideal in the Netherlands either. That's always true. We're talking about a drama at first. People have been fleeing. In Turkey, 2.7 million Syrians comply with international standards, in accordance with the Geneva rules. So Greece can say in general: yes, it is a safe third country. This does not mean that they can simply deny each individual asylum seeker the right to asylum. The same procedural directive laying down the criteria for "safe third country" also lays down rules for examining each application for asylum individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u165	This is a good description of how the situation works. We have discussed this with each other on a number of occasions. However, my question was whether Mr Samsom himself thinks Turkey is a safe third country. The fact that Greece thinks so is clear. That's what they made arrangements about. The Netherlands has not yet identified Turkey as a safe third country, which I find striking. As I can judge it now, Turkey does not meet the requirement of non-refoulement, namely that as a refugee you should not be afraid to be put back into an area where you are in danger. In doing so, it does not meet all the requirements for being considered a safe third country. So my question is not how the procedures work and whether Greece has the right to do so, but whether Mr Samsom thinks that Turkey is a safe third country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u166	I have indicated this before: yes, it can be qualified as a safe third country. That doesn't mean everything's going well. This is not the case in the Netherlands either. We too are qualified as safe third countries, but here too things are not as good. In fact, there was a judge in Germany a while ago who took away the status of safe third country for powerful reasons. So that can happen. Judges can do that. This can also happen in Greece. This is independent of the political assessment that I support and which I have already indicated that there are good reasons for doing so. I just mentioned Izmir's imam, who says tonight on television that he has no need to bury drones since the deal was concluded. That's what I think is more important. So that means that you have to make some difficult decisions, such as the decision on what I would rather have walked around, namely: is Turkey a safe third country or not? You don't want to answer a question like that, because it's hard to answer. But no, Mr Klaver, we will answer that question here. We have a duty to solve this problem. Then you can say: you know what, we don't solve the problem by that route; we stick around in air biking or otherwise. This is not how I dealt with this whole problem; I'm sure you've seen it. I will not treat it that way in the future either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u167	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u168	I appreciate the effort to ensure that fewer refugees make the crossing where people drown. That's what I've said before. I think everyone in this Chamber agrees that that is terrible. At the same time, we can see that these movements are now taking place in other places at sea and that many more people are crossing the sea. People are still dying. In the end, I have also indicated what I think is the solution to ensure that fewer people make the crossing. It's in the safe routes. You have to make sure that people get an alternative to getting into business with a human smuggler. I am concerned that we are about to send people back to a country where we are not sure whether the people who are staying there are safe. Indeed, Mr Samsom, that is a price I do not want to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u169	First of all, I would like to comment on the suggestion that there are currently people in Libya who stood on the beach on 20 March on Izmir beach and thought: I can't take this route anymore, so I'm going around. If Mr Klaver tried to make that suggestion, he himself should immediately reject it. I hope he does, too. Don't try to suggest that there's already been people walking around. No, there were hundreds of thousands of people in Libya waiting for the crossing and they continue to do so. That is why I indicated that we must also come up with a solution to this problem. You know what, Mr Klaver, that is a much more difficult solution than this one. It's a lot harder. Because if I wanted to make an agreement with Libya on the safe third country principle, I wouldn't even know which of the four governments they have now, I would have to call. That is an even more difficult task. So fasten up for that problem, Mr Klaver, because that is what you are dealing with, and so am I. We have the task of solving that together. If we want people to stop drowning or walking desolate through Europe because no one in Europe feels responsible, we will have to take difficult decisions, including those we have made in this agreement. I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u170	This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. There's a need for a half-hour suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u171	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u172	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about all kinds of issues, but two things jump out. Firstly, what is new in these agreements? Secondly, what about the rumours about the Syrians being sent back and how do we deal with them? I shall start with these two aspects and then deal with all the other questions. On 18 March, the European Council agreed to draw up the action plan which was activated at the summit on 29 November. This consisted of two main elements: tackling irregular migration and improving the situation of refugees in Turkey. All kinds of arrangements have been made. What's new? That, I think, is also the possible game changer. It is in Turkey's obligation to take back all irregular migrants who have travelled from Turkey to Greece. That is the big difference between the agreements of 29 November and those of 18 March. That difference was reflected in the debate between Mr Zijlstra and Mr Buma. I believe that there is indeed an important difference between the agreements of 29 November and, as regards the withdrawal of all irregular migrants, the agreements made on 18 March. There are, of course, commitments to this. They are known; they have been discussed here. But the image that we are now delivering more for the same consideration from Turkey is simply not true. It is true that the agreements of 18 March on the Turkish side also call for an extra very important effort to ensure that the prospect of going to Greece and having the chance of a successful asylum procedure has declined dramatically. You can also see it in practice from the fact that this irregular crossing is falling very much in pace and size. So that also turns out to work in that sense and that was always the goal. The aim was to prevent the dangerous crossing, to ensure that people do not go to Europe themselves and wander across Europe to the places they want to go. We want to end all this and we want to go to a system in which we help Turkey in the shelter and in which we also relieve Turkey of the famous pressure relief valve from the letter of 8 September when the pressure in the camps becomes too great. That's the underlying goal. In this sense, the agreements of 18 March build on the agreements of 29 November. This is indeed an important and crucial addition, which is also subject to additional obligations on the part of the European Union. That's the big difference, I think it's fair to report. That is the one big point I wanted to deal with. The other and last big point before I come to all kinds of other questions is the issue of the refugees who would have been sent back to Syria. We take these messages very seriously. I would point out that the UNHCR has noted a number of times that there is no structural return policy from Turkey to Syria. There isn't; that's what they said. Yesterday, the Dutch Foreign Minister had a discussion with Turkey's Minister for European Affairs. This has also been confirmed. In fact, the Turkish Government is pursuing an official reception policy. It strongly denies the reports on the return of refugees at all levels. The Turkish authorities have even gone one step further by saying that any refugee claiming to have been returned will be given immediate protection in Turkey. They're so sure of their case. Nevertheless, I feel here in the Chamber, and I myself feel that we want to know for sure. Then it is important that we first of all note that we should be careful not to carry out research as the Netherlands. That shouldn't be a Dutch case. We have no agreements with the Netherlands and Turkey. They are Europe-Turkey agreements. So the first thing is that it is up to the Commission to do so. The second condition is that the Commission should do so first and foremost by the Commission itself. You can hear all kinds of abbreviations here, including the UNHCR. Of course, the UNHCR has a role to play in this. It is a very important partner for Europe and for Turkey in the implementation of refugee policy. It is in fact responsible for the implementation of the Refugee Convention. In that sense, she plays an important role. I should like to make the following point. That is what I hope to answer to the Chamber. Firstly, the Commission is in the lead. You saw that last week, when Commissioner Avramopoulos directly travelled when these rumors came up. At that time, he once again received confirmation of all agreements, including the non-refoulement principle. I'd like to make three arrangements on this. Firstly, we are asking the Commission to re-examine this aspect in the report on the implementation of the action plan which will be published next week. Secondly, we ask Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Commission, to discuss this matter with Ahmet Davutoğlu, the Prime Minister of Turkey, next week and to say: we hear those rumours and your reaction and we are concerned about that. Thirdly, I want to ensure that we actively consult the UNHCR, which has a role to play here. I don't think it's gonna work to give the UNHCR a job in this. I would actually like to agree that we are not talking about this too much, but that we leave this to the Commission. The Commission is responsible for implementing agreements. She too, of course, is concerned about these signals and welcomes the reactions of the Turkish authorities. We must therefore leave it to the Commission to decide what instruments it is using. On the basis of the UNHCR's role, I assume that it will play a role in this. We will, of course, remain connected from the Presidency. In this sense, the Netherlands has a role to play. I believe, however, that we must prevent the Netherlands from playing a part in this in a kind of bilateral relationship with Turkey. That's what I'd like to say. We will then confirm the positive signals and what the UNHCR says about them, unless the rumors are correct. Nevertheless, we ask the Commission to address the concerns in its report and Juncker to do so in his visit and his talks with Davutoğlu. We also call for all relevant organisations to be actively involved, and it is up to the Commission to assess what they are. We can very well imagine that this is also the UNHCR.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u173	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u174	This is what I wanted to say actively on my part. No doubt I'll get some more questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u175	I thought the Prime Minister just said that the UNHCR would have said that there was no forced return to Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u176	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u177	Can the Prime Minister also tell us where the UNHCR said so? Is there a letter about that? The only thing I have read in the media is that the UNHCR has said that if there is forced return, it strongly rejects it. Of course it should be, because she is the guardian of the Refugee Convention. I am therefore very curious to hear what the UNHCR has to say. In addition, the European Commission is indeed in the lead. The European Commission regularly asks questions to the Turkish authorities. The Turkish government says: no, we don't. I hope the Prime Minister won't settle for that. I hope the UNHCR will be involved in such an investigation. We really need to look outside the Turkish Government at witnesses' statements that Amnesty International may have already collected in order to get a good picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u178	I'm afraid we're not entirely in agreement on that. I also know that there will be all kinds of motions. So that will be quite another thing in this debate. I do object to the tone on this point. I do not mean that of Mr Voordewind specifically, but in a general sense. Turkey captures 2.7 million Syrian refugees. It denies in all keys that this is happening. The whole atmosphere in the first term is that it is not right somewhere. I'm just saying how it looked to me. I'm sorry to hear that. I have no reason to point a finger at Turkey on this point. On all kinds of other points we have talked about, I do have them. Nevertheless, I understand the concern. I'd like to see it addressed, too. Secondly, and perhaps we do not fully agree on this either, we can ask the Commission to find out, as I outlined. However, I object to the fact that the Commission is going to do so in detail. That must really be up to the Commission, suggesting that the UNHCR be used. Thirdly, there is the question of where this has been said. The finding that there is no structural return policy has been reported orally to the UNHCR. I would ask the official to give me exactly where that has been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u179	According to the Prime Minister, there is no structural return policy. I am very curious to see if there will be an occasional forced return. We'll get back to you. I think we should at least avoid asking the Commission once again to ask the Turkish authorities whether there is a forced return to Syria. That will be widely worn in the Chamber. That has been asked a few times and we know the answer to that. If the Commission is to carry out research, it must use independent organisations such as the UNHCR if it is to be an objective investigation. If the Prime Minister takes that, it's going more towards an independent investigation. If only asked what the Turks think, we already know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u180	So I'm not gonna do that. Just a little sharp, because sometimes we have to define exactly where the responsibilities lie: the Commission has to implement the agreements with Turkey. There happens to be a Dutchman in the lead, Mr Verwey, but he is there as a Commission official. The Commission is therefore in the lead, not the bilateral Member State of the Netherlands versus the country of Turkey, not a Member State. That's one. I absolutely share the need for further verification. I think we can all agree on that. I would like to point out that I think that this resonates that the Commission should do so. I think it is only a step too far to highlight that very sharply and to prescribe to the Commission in detail how it should do so. We can give you the suggestions. I am prepared to give that part of the debate, if necessary stenographically, to the Commission and say: these are the views that live on it in the Dutch Parliament. However, in the relationship between the Member State and the Commission, the Commission is not there to obtain mandates from the Member States. The Commission is an independent body within the Union, with its own legislative power of initiative. It does not receive any mandates from the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u181	The Prime Minister appears here as a connoisseur of European law and the mores...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u182	After five and a half years, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u183	Could he perhaps explain to me why it was not a problem for the Dutch Parliament to insist that the IMF should be involved in monitoring Greece's handling of the European Commission's mandate to reform the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u184	Involvement of the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF was one of the preconditions for the support packages to Greece. It was one of the conditions for granting financial aid to Greece. That's another matter. Here you are talking about the implementation of existing agreements between Europe and Turkey, where the Commission is in the lead. That's a really different matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u185	That's double standards. Eventually, the Netherlands also insisted that the IMF be involved in the implementation. The audit of the agreement was, like here, a task for the European Commission. If the Prime Minister simply doesn't want the UNHCR to participate for any reason, then he should just say so. I wonder why he does not want the UNHCR to interfere and why the Netherlands could not indicate to the European Commission that we think it is important for the UNHCR to participate. It is important for an independent party to be involved. The European Commission is one of the partners in this deal. It would be wise for independent parties to look at it as well. Why is the Prime Minister fatally opposed to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u186	Firstly, because this is not part of the UNHCR's remit. I will go into more detail when we move on later, because I understand that they are on their way. That is why I object to requiring that. With Mr Klaver, I think it is logical that the UNCHR should be questioned about this, that its knowledge should be used and that it should be involved. That's one. Secondly, for the reasons I have just given, it is really a different matter from the Greek aid packages, because the Commission is in the lead here. My third point concerns, as I have just said, the tone in the first term of the Chamber. I can find something of that, even as the one who has been working on it from the Council. I find it painful to conclude that Turkey is wrong here. It was asked earlier where the UNHCR said this: it said this orally during the discussion with Bert Koenders, the Foreign Minister, in Istanbul last Sunday. At that time, the UNHCR informed our Foreign Minister that there is no structural return policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u187	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u188	In my opinion, the only difference between Greece and Turkey is that it is about money in Greece and now it is about people. I am concerned about the monitoring that is needed in Turkey to see if what has actually been agreed is happening. Turkey's ambassador to the European Union has said that any kind of review of how the statements are carried out by the European Commission is unacceptable and not negotiable. Is the Prime Minister getting the same signals from Turkey, or does he see that there is room for the European Union to check that these agreements are being properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u189	I don't know the ambassador's signals. There is, of course, a great deal of talk in many areas. The fact is that there are agreements between the Netherlands and Turkey. If there are rumours or concerns about the implementation of the agreements, I agree with Mr Klaver that it is perfectly normal to ask for a moment and to look behind the scenes. I think that is perfectly normal, but the Commission must be in the lead. I have no objection to the UNHCR playing a role in this, but from his job he cannot conduct some kind of independent investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u190	Mr Klaver, I see you have a document with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u191	It is not about what the Turkish ambassador said in a conversation or something, but about an interview in the EU observer, in which he states that he has no sense and no interest in the European Union interfering in any way with what is happening in Turkey. And that worries me. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether these concerns are justified or whether Turkey is allowing a review of how the agreements are being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u192	This is, of course, a matter for the Commission. I think it is perfectly normal for the Commission to be able to talk to Turkey about this type of rumors and to ask Turkey to do so. So I don't recognize the ambassador's signal. I would also find it strange, because I agree with Mr Klaver that it fits in with the agreements with Turkey that, if there are any worries, you will find out what is going on and want to look at each other behind the scenes. I think that's perfectly normal. I come to a whole series of other questions that are a little easier. Famous last words. We have the group of economic migrants. Well, that's easy: you can send it back. Then we have the Syrians. They have specific issues, as the debate between Mr Samsom and a number of other Members has shown. It is important that Turkey be designated as a safe third country by Greece. That will also have to be given its place in the asylum procedure on the Greek islands. We also have the difficult issue of the Iraqis and Afghans. Within these groups there are vulnerable minorities such as the Jezidis and the Christians. Discussions are ongoing with Turkey on the way in which the precise agreements will be implemented. So that's not quite complete. We're very close. It's my feeling that we can get out. We already have an understanding of the economic migrants, we have an understanding of the Syrians, and we are very far with Turkey about the Iraqis and Afghans. This must be organised in a proper manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u193	Speaking of Syrians, while no Syrian asylum seeker has yet been returned from Greece to Turkey, the cabinet has already started collecting Syrians from Turkey. Why? Which EU countries have already started doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u194	It's about very small numbers, which of course you'll be salding again with future numbers. As soon as the asylum procedure begins, the numbers of Syrians going back will increase. In the one-on-one system of course you make sure that it is distributed a bit neatly. It's about the whole thing. It is not an obligation for all countries to participate, but there are a lot of countries involved, including from Eastern Europe. I am not going to mention names here, because those countries have to announce this themselves, but we see a fairly broad front of countries that are participating. If you're in, it's off of your other quotas. We have the quota of 22,500, in which the Netherlands has 1,000 in it, for resolution. In addition, we have the 160,000 for relocation, of which 54,000 places have not been allocated. If we bring people from Turkey into the one-on-one programme, we will deduct them from those quotas. Non-participant countries keep their full quota. So it's not that the Netherlands I'm trying to stay in PVV-language for a while is crazy Henkie. We are not doing any more, but we are doing just as much as other countries. But if we do anything about this, we have fewer obligations in the other programmes. It is good to note that Eastern European countries are also beginning to board. Those countries never wanted to participate because they did not know whether there would be a parallel stream of irregular migration left. They see that this stream is gradually drying up and saying: okay, we understand that it makes sense now to join as Europe. That is a positive development. We've spent a lot of time in it, too. The countries were very consistent: they only wanted to participate if the irregular flow stopped. That logic now appears to be working in practice. Again, I cannot mention those countries now. They'll have to do it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u195	Yeah, they're supposed to do that on their own. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is taking the lead again in bringing Syrians to the Netherlands. I ask which other countries do that and the Prime Minister says: I do not say that. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely the Prime Minister can indicate which other countries, or at least how many other countries, are doing this? I mean, that's got to be open-minded, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u196	Quite a few countries are going to participate. But even if there were no countries other than the Netherlands, when this is done, we will be off our quotas and all those other countries will still have to comply with it. It is not the case that we are bringing more refugees from these countries than other countries. All countries have now legally committed themselves to resettlement and relocation. What we're doing here, we're subtracting from those numbers. If other countries do not participate, they will be left with those full quotas and we will not. Luckily, it's not like that. Germany, Finland and the Netherlands were involved in the first small numbers, between 70 and 80. We will probably leave the honour at the next stream to other countries. It is my expectation that you will eventually see that quite a few countries are participating. What Mr Fritsma naturally wants to go to is to hear that the Netherlands is doing more than other countries. But you're not, because you're salting. So what's the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u197	I still do not know how many other countries, like the Netherlands, already have an air bridge with Turkey to pick up Syrians. However, I do know that the Netherlands is back in the lead and is the first to pick up Syrians. To stay in the Prime Minister's terms: The Netherlands is indeed "crazy Henkie" by always taking the lead in picking up asylum seekers. Let me try again: what is wrong with the question of how many other European countries do this besides the Netherlands? Isn't that a very simple question to which the Chamber deserves an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u198	Those countries decide when to publish it. Then I'll come back to the first question. Mr Fritsma, of course, tries to give the viewer the impression that the Netherlands is now participating and is instantly with a larger number of people from Turkey than other countries. That's not true. We have said legally binding in Europe: 22,500 and 160,000. With these two quotas, the number you get from Turkey will be deducted. The Netherlands can now subtract 31, so that's fast. Other non-participant countries cannot deduct this and remain fully committed. So it's not like you're suddenly with more people in the Netherlands than other countries. It is important to say this before Mr Fritsma succeeds in creating the picture here as if the Netherlands were taking up more asylum seekers than other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u199	I'm gonna try one more time. What is wrong with the question of how many other European countries already have such an air bridge with Turkey to pick up Syrians? The Prime Minister doesn't even know the answer to such a simple question. Of course, then, the conclusion is justified that the Netherlands is crazy Henkie of Europe, because the Prime Minister is back in the lead in picking up Syrians from Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u200	The latter we would be if it were to be on top of the mandatory numbers, but that is not the case. I have already given the answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u201	The Turks report in the foreign media that the EU is obliged to absorb 250 000 refugees per year. Can the Prime Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u202	I don't know that story. No appointments have been made. The logic is that if all this succeeds and the entire flow would really stop... My ideal future scenario is that no one will cross the Dutch border anymore and that they can be sent back if they do. That would be my ideal scenario, because then you won't have any irregular migration at all. In return, you are willing to get people out of the areas where it is restless, where the camps are: quotaed, in numbers limited and strictly regulated. If this works out completely and the power has stopped, I am absolutely prepared to see how, in accordance with our letter of 8 September, you can get people from Turkey through resolution. There have been no agreements, so that number is totally falling out of the sky for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u203	Does the Prime Minister rule out the numbers of 250,000? Apparently, the Turks lie in foreign media. Among other things, Greek newspapers mention this. The Dutch media are not, but I would not be surprised if that number were actually mentioned. Does the Prime Minister rule out such large numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u204	I'm not gonna respond to every rumor, am I? No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u205	It's not a rumor, but it's in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u206	Well, then we need to talk about the media again! Then I get to the waterbed effect. The good news is that at least we don't see that at the moment. The flow through Libya to the European Union is actually made up entirely of African migrants, often with a seasonal peak, as we have seen more often. That was also the last point made by Mr Samsom in his term. There are no indications that the current is shifting from Turkey to Libya. You can see that the Frontex figures on the influx from Libya this year have so far been slightly higher than last year, but there is no trend yet. I fully agree that we should be extremely keen on this. You can also see Austria's first reactions to the Brenner. It is very important that Italy should assume its responsibility, but I can also say about Italy: we are not leaving the Italians alone with this problem. We are also going to help Italy collectively, but Italy, as sometimes happened in the past, should not give the impression that people can walk on to the rest of Europe. That is why Austria's initiative with the Brenner is a sensitive issue. But as in the case of the Western Balkans, I understand the Austrian perspective. It is particularly important now that Italy shows that there is no need for it and that it will take its responsibility through proper care. Furthermore, we must of course work very hard on Africa. We now close compacts with Jordan and Lebanon. That is not Africa, but the region around Syria, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Development Cooperation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are working on this in Africa. Bert Koenders, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is in the region in the next few days to talk to people about the possibility of further agreements on how to contain this problem. Of course, you cannot transfer the Turkish model one-on-one. That has rightly been said, even if only because Libya is blessed with a multitude of governments and it is quite complicated to know exactly who to make agreements with. In the end, we will have to succeed in reaching good agreements with Africa as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u207	Austria has announced an increase in border controls with Italy. Is that what the Prime Minister of Austria is or can he and does he think that Europe should support Austria as long as Italy is unfortunately not in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u208	It's allowed on its own. The Netherlands has also introduced stricter controls; this is permitted. It is important that Austria and Italy do not surprise each other and that there is good contact. Austria naturally wants to prepare for the expected increase in migration through Italy further into Europe. It is therefore important that the situation in Libya should stabilise and that we, as President, work actively on this. That is why the Koenders journey I mentioned is taking place and is being discussed next week in the Foreign Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u209	I would point out to the Prime Minister that it is important for the Netherlands to understand the position of Austria, but I believe that the Prime Minister himself has said so. Italy must do its job, but as long as that is not enough, Europe must support Austria and not leave it in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u210	I'm not ready to say Italy doesn't. That will have to prove again. Last year there were indications that things did not always go wrong, and in that sense Mr Buma and I agree. I do not know for this year, and that is why it is too much to say. However, I agree with Mr Buma that there should in itself be an understanding of Austria's preparations for an expected increase in migratory flows. We've been asked about the staff in the shelters. According to the Frontex agency, there are now enough experts working on the islands. We are making a big contribution to this. There are still a lot of pledges open. The main work is to raise the number of interpreters. Women and children. Greece is looking in particular at vulnerable groups. All kinds of measures are being taken for this. It is also one of the issues involved, alongside Iraqis and Afghans, in the further detailed implementation of the agreements. How are we going to get everyone back in a quiet and decent way? The situation in Idomeni is certainly worrying. I should also like to point out here the dubious role that some NGOs play in spreading rumors. That is one of the reasons why people do not leave, even though there is a shelter at about 15 kilometres where people can be well received. However, people are still being pumped with the hope that the border may still open, even though the Greek and Macedonian authorities have indicated that the border remains closed. The European Union and Turkey expressed the ambition to modernise trade relations in 2015. This also concerns the customs union. On the basis of that customs union, the EU and Turkey apply common external import tariffs. What we want now is a better alignment of the customs union with a number of developments over the past two decades, for example by including agricultural, service and procurement agreements in the customs union and thereby deepening trade relations with Turkey. On the question of food shortages in Greek reception, we immediately questioned them. It became clear that several NGOs have no evidence that there are food shortages at the moment. This was also apparent from the UNHCR's inquiries. There has been concern about the quality of the food. The latest information from the UNHCR shows that the situation is now that there are no serious problems. Of course, the Greek authorities are faced with a huge logistical and organisational task. But they take on their responsibilities and we, at least the Commission, I must say again, pay very close attention to this. I'm not worried about the perverse stimulus. There may be such an incentive, but if you look at how things are going right now, I'm not so worried about it. We must, of course, keep a close eye on this, but the fact that the numbers that are now crossing do not, at least at the moment, indicate that the system that has been discussed is now being used to organise a great deal of resolution through the one-to-one structure. A great deal has already been said about visa liberalisation between Members of Parliament. I agreed with those who said that they simply have to meet all the criteria. The only thing that has been agreed is that 1 October will be 1 July, provided they meet all the criteria. We'll see how far they get. It's an old date. No new agreement has been made on this, except that the target date has been brought forward. It is mainly up to Turkey to reach that target date or not. Then, chairman, I'm coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u211	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u212	The Prime Minister is going through all the points very quickly, but one thing I haven't heard is that it may still be coming, but perhaps he could forget it, and that is freedom of expression. Part of my input was about that. My question is: how does the Prime Minister judge Erdogan's long arm, which even in Germany wants a comedian to be locked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u213	We are, of course, dealing with countries outside Europe, on the fringes of Europe, which have not always achieved the level we ourselves consider to be the level of freedom of expression, democracy and human rights. I've called that joke in my party the Zijlstradoctrine. If we only do business with countries that are 100% compliant in all respects, it will become rather quiet around us, at least in our own perception. Others will also be critical of us, as some Members have said. I will not go into the matter between Turkey and Germany. That really is a bilateral matter, Turkey-Germany. It is clear that, of course, in all contacts, we are very keen to ensure that the standards that are not negotiable for us are maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u214	This is a bit disappointing to me: a fearful response from the Prime Minister. He is not interfering in the matter between Germany and Turkey. Really scared, scared. 'Cause why not? Why wouldn't the Prime Minister take action? He was always a champion of freedom of speech. He even advocated enlargement. Now he is finally President of the European Union, and he is actually too afraid to address the Turks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u215	As President of the European Union, I must also be on a roll. This really is a bilateral issue between Turkey and Germany. This does not affect the Presidency. Mr. Chairman. Then one more question was asked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u216	Mr. Bontes, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u217	I think it's way too easy to get away with this. President of the EU, there he is. Then the Turks use, Erdogan uses his long arm to Germany and restricts freedom of speech there, and the Prime Minister dares not do anything about it. I think it's really outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u218	What's going on here? The President-in-Office of Turkey has objected to statements in German media. It is now up to the German-Turkey relationship to respond to this. I don't have anything to add to that, do I? Germany is perfectly capable of settling this with Turkey itself. I don't think they're waiting for my help. They don't need them either. It is not a matter for the European Union, it is really a bilateral matter. Mr. Chairman. The final question, perhaps, concerns the implementation of the Turkish Refugee Facility. We have also put something in the letter about this. It is, of course, slow to spend these resources. The Turks are working very hard on this, and we also attach great importance to the fact that the money is being spent in a good way. This contributes to supporting reception in Turkey and education and training opportunities for the labour market. In doing so, we have come to the conclusion that in specific cases refugees can be helped most quickly if they do so through the responsible public authorities. The UNHCR feels the same way. It is, of course, very important that this UNHCR has access to it and is closely involved in it. So I think it is important that we do everything we can to ensure that the funds are spent properly. There's a lot of discussion about the second 3 billion. However, the main challenge in the coming period will be to spend the first 3 billion for 2018 in a good way. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u219	Famous last words... What is the legal status of these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u220	I could, of course, give a brilliant answer now, but since I really want to answer Mr Pechtold's question very well, let me write down exactly what this is about in European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u221	That comes in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u222	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u223	The words "deal" and "agreements" are spoken in the mouth, but legally it is actually nothing more than a statement. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u224	I'm gonna have to get that straightened out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u225	You can see it, President: the shorter the question, the better...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u226	Those short questions from Pechtold are the most dangerous! He's an art historian, so when he brings up legal issues, I pay extra attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u227	We have another lawyer here: Mr Van Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u228	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u229	Ván Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u230	"Buma" or "Van Haersma Buma" is both good, but not "Haersma Buma," not "Buma Stemra," not "Buma Haersma"...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u231	It's all in the Acts now, from Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u232	Agreed. The Prime Minister said something important, which I believe is also good news, namely that many more countries, including Eastern Europe, want to participate in the taking over of refugees. It is mainly curiosity to want to know which countries they are, so I will leave that question out for a moment. But I would like to know if the Prime Minister has any idea when this could develop. In my view, it is a very important step if all countries are to participate. If that is not possible, we will have to look at what we are doing with these countries for later; we have talked about this before. However, is there a view on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u233	If they do not participate, they simply stand at the bar for the numbers; it is not so that those countries will get away with it, as some will say. I just think that it is important for successful implementation and for the support base to involve as many countries as possible. I think it is very valuable to note that Eastern European countries are also starting to scramble on board. I can't call it right now, I don't think it's my place. However, I believe that if more Syrians are brought from the shelter in Turkey to Europe, it will become apparent which countries they are. That's my expectation, although I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u234	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the government's first term. In view of the movements in the room, there is a need for a second term. I shall give the floor to Mr Klaver in that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u235	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the answers to the questions he has asked. The concerns I have about this Turkey deal and the position of the refugees have not yet been removed. I am concerned when I hear the Prime Minister say that he has no reason to believe that refugees would now be returned and that he is relying on the word of the Turkish government. I find that too easy; it sounds almost like the Turkish ambassador yesterday in Nieuwsuur. I attach great importance to Amnesty International's report. That really is not just a second or third-class club, but an organisation that has been dealing with the human rights situation for a long time. If the Prime Minister doesn't mind, I think Amnesty International is a little more credible than President Erdogan. I also think it is important not only to ask the Turkish authorities, but also to do real research to see what is true and how we can ensure that the safety of refugees, who are our responsibilities, is guaranteed. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU agreement with Turkey states that "all migrants will be protected in accordance with the relevant international standards and in compliance with the principle of non-refoulement';]] [[noting that there are serious signals, including from Amnesty International, that Syrian refugees are being sent back by Turkey to Syria;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to a UNHCR monitoring mission in Turkey and Greece to monitor compliance with the relevant international standards, including non-refoulement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u236	Mr. Chairman. It has been an important debate on an important deal. The CDA had said in advance "don't close it" because in the longer term it will make Turkey stronger and stronger and Europe weaker and weaker. That's a very big risk. I think Mr Klaver's motion is important. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on this. We are considering going along with this because the UNHCR is a club that can do that. For me, the important point remains that the international conventions are not tailored to the current flow of refugees. I had an interruption debate earlier with Mr Zijlstra. I shall therefore table the next motion with Mr Bishop so that the Prime Minister can put this issue on the agenda during this Presidency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the international conventions no longer correspond to the nature and extent of the current refugee and displaced persons problems;]] [[Considers that international law needs to be adapted to ensure that reception in the region and temporary protection are paramount, and discourages the use of the asylum procedure as an alternative form of immigration;]] [[calls on the Government, as President of the European Union, to include adjustments to the Treaties on the agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma and Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u237	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the clear answer. I actually thought it was a bizarre debate. My impression of this debate is that apart from the SGP the PvdA and the VVD the Chamber says that the agreements with Turkey should be pushed aside. Let's be clear. This means that we go back to the large numbers of refugees who crossed from Turkey to Greece every day. Then we go back to the footage of people who don't survive. Then we go back to the large number of refugees that also got the Netherlands in big trouble last autumn. The agreements with Turkey do not solve the refugee problem, but are part of the solution. The VVD finds rejecting these agreements totally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u238	Mr Fritsma, one question. It is the second term and there has been a great deal of debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u239	I have a question. Mr Zijlstra's simplism really invites me to do so, because he makes it seem like there are only two choices: whether to make ourselves dependent on that terrible dictator Erdogan or to bring tens of thousands of asylum seekers to the Netherlands. With all due respect, what a load of crap! Why doesn't the VVD see that the best option is to take matters into its own hands, close the Dutch borders and go over our own admission policy in order to stop the asylum influx? Apparently that option does not come up with the VVD and that is sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u240	It is remarkable that when you start your question with a reproach of simplism, this comes after it. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u241	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions and I would like to make one motion. I have a question for the Prime Minister about visa liberalisation. He said it was only about an advance on the deadline from 1 October to 1 July. I note, together with the VVD, that not even half of the 72 conditions are met, I believe that the number of 19 is now circulating. Isn't it fairer to just drop the deadline and say that all the conditions really have to be met? The Prime Minister mentioned the waterbed effect towards Italy and Libya. He says that's actually negligible. This is not in line with the figures we received yesterday: 2,000 refugees have left for Italy via Libya and it does not appear that this number is going to be reduced. It's about the waterbed effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u242	I suggest you read the motion, because your time is almost up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u243	Yes. The Prime Minister didn't understand, so I'll explain. It is, of course, a question of how the Refugee Convention is ultimately respected, including in Turkey. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Claver/Roemer motion adopted states that Turkey must comply with all the substantive criteria of the UN Refugee Convention in terms of both national legislation and implementation;]] [[whereas there are worrying reports, inter alia, through Amnesty International, about the possible return of refugees from Turkey to Syria;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that UNHCR is formally monitoring compliance with all elements of the UN Refugee Convention, including the return of migrants from Greece to Turkey, and to monitor the non-refoulement principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Samsom, Mr Pechtold and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u244	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his first-term answers. It is not that we do not want agreements with countries we need, geopolitics. That is also clear in the contributions, not only today but from 2012. However, the conditions for this must be met, and we have been clear about this from the outset. They are at odds with EU membership and visa, and they are certainly at odds with human rights. That is why we have said today that we believe that these agreements should be suspended until they are clear. I did not ask the Prime Minister for nothing, even just now, about the status of these agreements. After all, we do not vote on it as a Chamber. The European Parliament does not vote on it either. In order to help the Prime Minister get on his way for his second term, I would point out that lawyers therefore have doubts about the consequences of the title, 'clarification', which is now above it. I would like a second-term response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u245	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has sunk to make itself dependent on the untrustworthy Turkish tyrant Erdogan. The deal that has been made with Turkey really only gives one certainty and that is that the gate to the Netherlands for Turks will be wide open. This is due, on the one hand, to the visa-free travel that Turks receive and, on the other hand, of course, to the prospect of EU accession for Turkey. That is why this deal is an historic mistake, which must be corrected. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the Netherlands should not be dependent on the EU and Turkey to resolve the asylum issue;]] [[calls on the Government to take matters into its own hands by closing the Dutch borders to all asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u246	Mr. Chairman. I only have 29 seconds to look at it, and now 1 hour and 29 seconds. It changes a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u247	Hahaha. You will receive special treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u248	I'm getting special treatment. I always appreciate that. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for once again giving an adequate response to the questions. In my opinion, only one remained, which I would like to repeat, but first I would like to repeat my initial statement. I am convinced that, if this is going to work properly and that the agreements are being implemented in accordance with the intention, this is the only human instrument you have in your hands from Europe to gain some control over the flow of refugees. That is the reason for us to support this agreement and to express our appreciation for it. At the same time, there are other instruments. One of these instruments is still reception in the region. In what way does the government continue to draw attention to this, particularly as regards Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States? The countries in that region should take responsibility. I would like to see the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u249	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the first-term response. That response was short but powerful. Unfortunately, for my taste, a lot of answers were missing. There have been so many organizations that have cracked this deal. I will just mention them for a moment: the UNHCR, the European Commissioner for Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Doctors Without Borders, the Red Cross, Save The Children, Kurdish and Friends and the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. I don't think it's very strong if you have to drag all these kinds of organizations in as parliamentarians to say: you see, I'm right! But I do, because all the concerns they raise are also the concerns of the SP. I have tried to bring it up in this debate. I am sorry that the Prime Minister did not want to dwell so much on this. The conclusion that Turkey can be regarded as a safe third country, which the government partners clearly agree with, therefore does not want to be included in it. I do not have a motion, partly because I fear that it will do very little, but I would like to have said in this second term that this deal cannot take place in this way, because it violates de facto human rights, takes a walk with our own agreements and buries the UN Refugee Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u250	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is afraid to comment on Erdogan's frontal attack on freedom of expression. By the way, Commission President Juncker dared. He's less afraid than this Prime Minister. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkish President Erdogan has curtailed the freedom of the press in his own country;]] [[noting that he also wants to restrict freedom outside Turkey, for example in Germany;]] [[Whereas the European countries must unreservedly support freedom of expression and the right to satire;]] [[calls on the Government, in its role as President of the European Union, to firmly renounce the Turkish Government's efforts to restrict freedom of expression and the right to satire,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-20-1120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u251	Mr. Chairman. Mr Zijlstra called it "a bizarre debate." I will allow myself to differ slightly with him on this. I actually thought it was a good debate, but perhaps it is my duty to optimism that drives me there again and again. However, I note that between all criticism and concern, the Chamber feels an almost unanimous shared responsibility for bringing this issue to a successful conclusion. If all these concerns and issues end up in, for example, a task for the UNHCR to be better looked at, monitored, monitored, or whatever you want to put it into practice, or if these agreements are properly implemented, at least I see commonality in that. Apart from that, even if there is no commonality, we have a duty to resolve this issue, to end last year's despair and chaos and to restore order and security, especially for those people. There has been a great deal of talk in this debate about human policy, humanity and human rights, but I wonder what can be humane about watching people drown in the Aegean Sea and how a million people wander across Europe. That was not humane, that is not humane, and we must put an end to it. We have now taken the difficult measures for this. Now it's up to the execution. I wish the Prime Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u252	That brings us to the end of the second term from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u253	Mr. Chairman. I think there was a misunderstanding with Mr Voordewind about the waterbed effect. I did not say that there is no flow of refugees from North Africa and Libya to Italy; we discussed that. It is not just because there are significantly fewer crossings to the Aegean Sea, that power has moved to Africa. On the basis of the data, we find that this stream consists almost exclusively of people with Africa as their origin. In this sense, there is no waterbed effect from Turkey; it is more of an autonomous given. That power's a little bigger than last year. The trend is still uncertain, but the number is slightly higher. I have already said that it is very important for Italy to respond adequately to this, and we have no indication that it is not doing so, and that we are helping Italy to do so. I thank Mr Bishop for his strong support. I agree with him that reception in the region of the former Soviet Union is of the utmost importance in Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States and in other countries of the former Soviet Union. We very much insist on that. I also agree with him that the results are still limited. So that should simply be better, but our possibilities there are, of course, limited. There is a whole world behind Mr Pechtold's question. I'm about to find out which camel comes out here. So I'm getting very careful with the answer. Of course, you have different kinds of appointments. You can make a treaty; this isn't. This is a lighter form: a political agreement, if you like a political declaration. It could also be a MoU. So it's a lighter form. This means, of course, that this can never exceed all kinds of other legal obligations; so, of course, we are also maintaining these non-refoulement and international treaties. It is on behalf of all parties concerned. On one part, there is indeed a question of bringing some of the agreements under EU law. This concerns the Turkish Refugee Facility, the TRF, the fund of 3 billion. This is entirely dependent on EU law, but it is also a political agreement, agreement or declaration between countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u254	It is true that it is a "statement," but a number of Dutch lawyers, and not the least, have looked at the content. They said: it is very similar to a treaty. A treaty has probably not been chosen because there is therefore no need for parliamentary assent here or, perhaps just as important, in the European Parliament. Maybe we should deal with this in writing. This is a treaty covering subjects subject to the ordinary legislative procedure, such as asylum and immigration. In such cases, the Council may only conclude a treaty with a third country after obtaining the consent of the European Parliament. All the articles of law are in the piece I now have in my hand. I think it's a far-reaching arrangement that you can't go under the term "statement." This cannot be said to the national parliaments and to the European Parliament: you are not about that. For the follow-up, which we have just discussed, I think that parliamentary and judicial scrutiny is so important. Perhaps we, as historian and art historian, are not going to come out completely at the moment, but, in order to be able to control the government, I would nevertheless like a more detailed written answer, explaining why it is maintained that this is an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u255	Fine, but I'm not going to send a separate letter about that. We take that into account in the next progress report or something. In it we include a paragraph following this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u256	Next week is a very nice term where I like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u257	I'm sure that'll come very soon. I shall pass on this problem to Mr Koenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u258	The last time that happened... I am serious about how we look at these agreements in the future. I'd like to set a two-week term or something, but we're not gonna wait for a report that comes in three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u259	Letters and reports on this subject are regularly sent to the Chamber. At the next opportunity we will give some more background, so that Mrs In 't Veld can be fully informed. Which brings us to the motions. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 1116 on the observation mission. The UNHCR is active in Greece and Turkey, across the entire spectrum of the Refugee Convention. UNHCR will also continue this role and be able to involve all relevant information. The fact that the Commission is leading in this is the second reason why the motion should be discouraged. Then the motion to part No. 1117. The adaptation of the Refugee Convention is not currently a priority for the Cabinet and Europe, however much this may be justified. That is also very difficult worldwide and takes an endless amount of time. However, it is relevant that the Commission's recent communications look at how the Refugee Convention is interpreted in Europe. That whole package of the Commission has now come out. We are therefore putting our priority on solving concrete problems, such as this EU-Turkey agreement. Secondly, we want to express an opinion on last week's Commission communication on a multitude of issues relating to asylum and migration. We will undoubtedly be discussing the whole issue of the Refugee Convention as a cabinet now or in the future for a long time. That seems relevant to me. I have also heard several contributions on this subject. However, it is hanging directly from the Presidency here, and I do not think that this is the most useful use of time. The most important thing now is to look very closely at where the gold plating is in Europe, where Europe has put itself in too much trouble in its interpretation of the Refugee Treaty and how we can solve it in a practical way. I now turn to the Voordewind c.s motion. in piece No. 1118. If this motion is really about an explicit, formal role of the UNHCR in Turkey, then I advise against it. However, if the motion confirms the existing role of the UNHCR, its continuation and the Commission's leading role in monitoring the implementation of the agreements between the EU and Turkey, it supports government policy. It is very important to know that, so I really must now challenge Mr Voordewind to go into that, perhaps together with the other proposers. If the motion really means a formal, explicit role for the UNHCR, then I refer to the first deadline and I can only advise against it. But if the motion is intended to confirm the role of the UNHCR and to continue it, including in the context of the Commission, it supports policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u260	I am going to take a look at it, but it is the intention that the motion should have added value, otherwise it could also be superfluous. I'm gonna go check on the lyrics. I do have a supplementary question on this, because the Prime Minister said he spoke to the UNHCR, at least the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I have just checked that and asked what the UNHCR's position is with regard to forced deportations to Syria. The UNHCR neither confirms nor denies the existence of forced expulsions to Syria. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to send a letter to the Chamber in which he writes that UNHCR cannot confirm Turkey's forced expulsions, as was done orally to the Foreign Minister. Because then the Chamber will have important information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u261	I'm gonna take a look at the Civil Service class. Can we do that? Yeah, okay. It is what they have said to Bert Koenders, the Foreign Minister, so I think we can include that phrase again in a letter. Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u262	It's also in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u263	It's also in the Acts, yes. We have so few civil servants left, so I'm always trying to avoid letters. The motions on the documents Nos. 1119 and 1120 I advise, referring to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-13-tweedekamer-6.u264	This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Prime Minister.
