ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u1	I understand that some debates have been put together. That means that each group has a six-minute speaking time. That's a lot. Only in the debate on the Tax Plan will there be longer speaking time, I believe. I would like to appeal to everyone to some self-limitation when it comes to the interruptions. I have every confidence in you on that point, otherwise we will have to think about the number of interruptions. The sprint worked anyway, I see. I shall therefore be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u2	Mr. Chairman. That sprint had nothing to do with running practice. I just wanted to breathe some healthy air for this important debate. At the end of 2015 it appeared that Volkswagen used specially designed software to manipulate the lab tests for years. While nitrogen oxide or NO emissions were neatly met on the roller bench, the car in practice emitted up to 40 times as much of a substance that causes smog, which is bad for the environment and which is downright harmful for 1 million people with asthma, COPD or any other lung disease. We had already received signals that it was wrong, because the differences between tests and practice were simply too large. It was 600% to 1000% more than allowed, according to TNO's research. We have also understood that TNO raised this issue. So for years we have greatly underestimated how much dirty stuff we just breathed in from diesels, while at the same time we tried to make all kinds of agreements with all kinds of parties to get the air healthy. Then you'd say something wasn't right, and that should be investigated. That is why it is rather odd that two VVD executives, from I and M and from Finance, never commissioned specific research into the type-approvals issued in the Netherlands. Maybe that's not really the law-and-order attitude you'd expect. So my question is: why didn't that ever happen? Surely the rules apply to everyone, and yet also to cheating car manufacturers? That no one intervenes, however, could be exemplary for a failing system. Car manufacturers can simply shop at 28 national inspection bodies for the tests. The business model of these inspection bodies is based on the fee for those tests, and then they approve cars for the whole of the European market. So one national inspection body approves the whole European market, and only the government of that country can intervene if something turns out to be wrong with the test results. If that government doesn't do that, who's gonna get the bottom of it? Isn't it really very sad that we depended on the Americans to prove that one of our car manufacturers just committed fraud? That is why we have already advocated independent overarching supervision. This agency can then test cars on a sample basis in theory and practice, and also simply pass fines if fraud is committed. In the meantime, the European Commission has also proposed a far-reaching review of the system. D66 wants the government to support this, even more so, to tighten it up. If you say "a," say "b." In meeting the requirements of the new European tests, the Netherlands made it clear in the European negotiations that we want manufacturers to keep to the agreements. Those agreements were made in consultation with these manufacturers, but still behind closed doors. Such a clear lick-on-piece design also expects D66 from the government when it comes to European supervision and enforcement. We therefore find the government's reluctant reaction to the Commission's new proposals disappointing. We therefore wholeheartedly support the motion by the Labour Party on this point, which has already been tabled. It calls on the government to strengthen its position on further objectivity, i.e. further clarity, of this type-approval. The manipulation of the test results goes even further than the environment. The consumer has actually been lied to for a long time. From new cars, mirrors were screwed off, tyres pumped up and doors glued off, so that the manufacturer could stick only the best fuel use on the sales label. Of course, that use in the tests had nothing to do with the handling of the pump in practice. If you buy a Ferrari that turns out to be driving like a Panda, you'll feel strongly bought. However, if you buy a Panda that turns out to emit like a Ferrari, that's just as true. That is why D66 also wants a practical test on fuel use to be carried out, so that we can also deal with misleading practices in this area. For D66, the most shocking thing "dieselgate" has revealed is that consumers who buy a car are actually deliberately and consistently fooled, whether it is use, CO emissions or nitrogen oxide. Consumers cannot make their choice on the basis of false data on use and damage to health. This should just go on the basis of the real performance. If the practical tests for all cars are made mandatory in 2017, D66 wants that information to become available to the consumer. This must be done with fair labels so that consumers are not fooled. I'm sure car salesmen too would very much like to be able to say: I'm sure what I'm selling to you is also true. That is why the D66 Group calls on the government to ensure that this information is included in the showroom and in advertisements so that consumers can make their choice on the basis of reliable information.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u3	Mr. Chairman. Clean at the test, but polluting on the road: that seems to have been Volkswagen's motto in recent years. For six years, this car manufacturer has been cheating on the emissions of his diesel cars. In doing so, he acted in violation of the rules, without the type-approvals knowing or wanting to see through it. Research in the United States was needed to wake us all up. Unfortunately, Volkswagen doesn't turn out to be the only one. There is also a large difference between test emissions and actual emissions in other cars. For example, Opel now quickly replaces software in some diesel models, after which emissions are reduced. I'm asking the Minister if she's prepared to investigate what's going on here. Mercedes has cars that in practice emit twenty times more than in the lab. Volkswagen also adapts the cars now. What exactly is the content of the improvements that Volkswagen is making at the moment? Are these improvements actually effective? The Germans have approved it, but it is completely unclear to us whether there is any effect on the emissions of cars at all. One of the solutions is openness and transparency of the software. A car is nowadays mainly a moving computer. By programming the car favorably, it looks clean, but it's not. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, the software becomes fully public in cars. I will make a proposal to this effect with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. The government is sceptical about this. Control of software would in fact be almost impossible due to its complexity. Fortunately, Europe proposes to give the type-approval authorities, such as the RDW in the Netherlands, an insight into the software. Does the Minister share the view of the PvdA Group that full disclosure of the software is necessary, so that bodies such as TNO can check whether it is proper? There's gonna be practice tests. That means really driving by car and measuring what the emissions are, but with weaker demands. Member States succumbed under pressure from the European car lobby to ease standards. The measurement gets better, but the standard becomes more flexible. In this way, bad behavior is rewarded and legitimized by politicians. Does the Minister share the PvdA's view that emission standards should be stricter rather than more flexible? As with the software, this helps public access. Why are the results of the practical test not actively made public? Full disclosure and transparency of the results will, in the PvdA's view, lead to better and more independent testing. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The European Commission wants to have the opportunity to check test results. The countries will also be given the opportunity to do so. According to the PvdA, this check could be a stick behind the door. However, the Dutch Government opposes this part of the plans. Why is she resisting this? Finally, something is being done about the practices of car manufacturers and then the cabinet is against them. Last week, together with D66, we tabled a motion asking the government to drop its objections to this additional check on tests. I'd like a response to that motion. I also want to know why the cabinet has reservations about it. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the government is delivering its words of 11 March last. At that time, she wrote to the Court that far-reaching measures are needed to strengthen confidence in the vehicle market and create a level playing field. However, the Commission's proposal to this effect was rejected. As far as we are concerned, that is the wrong direction. The PvdA wants the Netherlands to go further. The incentive that manufacturers have to shop creates competition that is out of place. After all, the independence of the inspector is under pressure. We've got to get this stimulant out. I ask the Minister if there are any options to counter this shopping behavior. Why is competition at a price possible? What is the free choice for a type-approval authority really good for? What is the Minister's view of limiting this choice or setting a fixed rate for approving a type of car? I'm just making a suggestion. Then I come to talk about the Netherlands itself. In the Netherlands, the Public Prosecutor's Office chooses not to prosecute, while under the Law on Economic Crimes there appears to be crimes under the Environmental Management Act. Why isn't there a criminal investigation? In addition, the Authority Consumer & Markt sees no reason to investigate because Volkswagen itself has publicly attracted the fine rug. That can't be true. Whether the answer to the question I asked earlier is not correct or not. Attracting the fine is not a legitimate argument not to investigate. I would like the Minister's opinion on this. I will continue with the European car lobby. This one has a way too big a finger in it. The decisions of principle taken in Europe and developed in the technical committees are one of the problems. The initial decision to reduce harmful emissions may well be a good thing, but then the industry will make sure that the impact will be felt by society and that the profits will be borne by industry. "The devil is in the details" should not mean that the car industry undermines the political decision through the details. What is the Cabinet going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u4	You have 20 seconds, Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u5	I have two more sentences and then it's done. We cannot stand by and watch the European car lobby dictate the law and then undermine it itself. It's time for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u6	I would like to join in that last cry, but I am surprised at the commitment of the PvdA Group. On the one hand, there is the motion by Jan Vos which states that we must move very quickly to emission-free transport in the Netherlands, which cannot be cheated on. On the other hand, the Law on the Development of Car Letters has recently been dealt with. The Ministry has had TNO examine the impact of the new car letter. Now it appears that the entire fleet is getting 20% dirtier and that there are 100,000 fewer electric cars coming, set against the base path. The PvdA agreed to that today. How can you say on the one hand that you want to reduce the influence of the car lobby and that you want to move quickly to clean transport, because that is better for people's health, and on the other hand let the lobby of car manufacturers in the Netherlands weigh so heavily that the new measure will pollute our fleet rather than change it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u7	A compromise has been reached here; that is what has happened here. So if Mrs Van Tongeren asks me whether this is the ideal car letter and whether it is going all the way in the direction the PvdA wants, the answer is no. It would also be crazy if the answer were different, because there are several parties involved. At some point, you make an appointment with each other. That's what happened here. So there are quite a few things in it that my group believes can be made a little more precise or better implemented. As far as my group is concerned, things could sometimes be a little more focused on promoting sustainability. In the end, however, these measures are about taxation, and not just about promoting sustainability. There's tension between them; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u8	So I actually hear Mr Hoogland saying that the VVD won in the car lobby. That's not entirely surprising. Mr Hoogland says that the PvdA is open to other, perhaps smaller, measures to try to change that fleet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u9	No, that's not true, because if there were a VVD spokesperson here, I think Mrs Van Tongeren would hear just as many discontented sounds. There they are dissatisfied with a number of things with which the PvdA is happy. I mention the storage on diesel. I call it the buy-back fund for old diesel company cars. So there are quite some things in it that the PvdA is happy with and I can imagine that they are less happy with it at the VVD, for example. Anyway, I'm not from that party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u10	This discussion has just taken place. Let us note that the Tax Administration is once again simply carrying out the core task of levying and collecting taxes. Sending on sustainability is not a core task of the Tax Administration. I have a question about the motion that has been tabled. In addition, the discussion that we had last week, when we talked about the informal Transport Council, is emerging. Then we agreed to deal with the motion here as well. I still have a few questions about this, also in connection with the explanatory statement. What exactly is the PvdA's proposal in this motion? We have read the cabinet response. That's where the line comes in to avoid double-doing things. People say, "If you do things, just do them right." In the Netherlands there is a good standard and a good RDW. What I see here, however, is a motion that actually says: hand over the powers to Europe and then we will see what happens. Perhaps Mr Hoogland could explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u11	Yeah, 'cause there's some nuance in place here. What Mrs Visser is saying now is not in the motion. I am also open to changing the motion if it is not effective. It is quite tricky to decide what needs to be done here at the level of measures. However, we have seen that it has not worked in recent years. At Volkswagen, people were free to go about their business. One of the proposals we are making is to limit the number of choices made by car manufacturers to get their types approved. We propose this because it can contribute to fairer testing. However, I would also like to hear the reaction of the cabinet. Do we believe that this can contribute? Then we can see if this is the most effective. The idea behind this is, of course, to limit the possibility of allowing emissions in the test to be very different from those in reality. I think we share that goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u12	We share that goal. In addition, as far as we're concerned, we're just gonna prescribe how to do that. Does the PvdA now argue in this motion for a single European admission authority and for a single European supervisor, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u13	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u14	I would like to check whether the insight of the PvdA is such that that party understands what role she has played in this. I see crocodile tears. The spokesperson says that none of this is possible, and it is terrible what is happening. But since 2007, the test has just been clearly described in the regulation as it is. And that test almost automatically leads to this kind of manipulation. That's what the PvdA was there, isn't it? The PvdA is also in the European Parliament, isn't it? In fact, the PvdA Group is working together in the European Parliament. However, I have never heard Mr Hoogland say anything about this. So why now suddenly this outrage, when the PvdA knew for a long time that things were going the way they were? In fact, the politics and the PvdA have written along and made sure that this is how it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u15	I shall leave the qualification of 'disgrace' to Mr Madlener. I think the investigation in the United States has finally opened everyone's eyes. Then it became clear why there is such a big difference between emissions in practice and emissions in these tests. Mr Madlener is right to say that there was a long time ago a great difference between one and the other. But how exactly that came about and what software contributed to it was unknown. Or did Mr Madlener know that at the time? We've known that since it was investigated in the U.S.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u16	I'll check the regulation. It clearly states that "the instrument only works when the engine is started." That is just literally written down in the regulation which prescribes that test! It may well be that no law has been broken at all, but that Volkswagen has simply used the test procedure that Mr Hoogland's party has written along with. Now Mr Hoogland comes up with a story full of indignation. Once again, things have gone wrong, but it would be a credit to Mr Hoogland if he also mentioned the role of the PvdA in this regard. It would please him if he were to express a little regret and not criticize Volkswagen with a big mouth here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u17	If it rains, it's the PvdA's fault according to the PVV. If anything goes wrong in society, it's the PvdA's fault according to the PVV. Now Volkswagen shuffles with his cars and again it is the fault of the PvdA. They're inferences and causal connections that I can't do anything with. I'll leave it on the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u18	Mr. Chairman. The fraud seems to be a case of: we didn't see it, we didn't know it, and we didn't want to hear it. D66 gave a nice list of the effects of pollution. With D66 I would like to know when the Dutch authority knew something, how it is that we have not responded and how we are going to do it differently in the future. Apparently, many bodies in several countries knew about it and the European Commission also knew about it. However, this did not lead to any earlier intervention. I assume that the rulers with GroenLinks, gathered here, think that we should do better in a future case. The retest of cars in France revealed that all 52 retested cars did not comply with the standard. So I assume that the scams are not limited to Volkswagen alone. I was speaking just now in an interrupting debate with Mr Hoogland about the power of the car lobby. I should also like to have answered my question on this by Mr Wiebes. Why are we going to adopt a tax policy in the Netherlands, based on the figures provided by the Ministry itself, which makes the car park dirtier than it would have been if we had followed the basic path, the old policy? I know the Secretary of State is going to say he's optimistic and I'm sure it's gonna be okay. That was the answer to my interruption during the Autobrief investigation, but I'd like to get some tougher figures. I think we all want to improve air quality in the Netherlands and make the air cleaner and not dirtier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u19	This question has also been raised in a previous debate and Mrs Van Tongeren repeats it. Will Mrs Van Tongeren then have the old tax policy on promoting hybrid and full electric cars back again? The General Court of Auditors, the Planning Office for the Environment, the OECD and many other parties have said that this has been a far too expensive way of achieving CO reduction and that we have therefore missed 6 billion in tax revenue. Do I hear Mrs Van Tongeren say that we must continue with this policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u20	No, Mrs Visser did not pay attention to the previous debate and apparently she is not doing so again. GroenLinks wants a quick change of the fleet, as soon as possible. For example, therefore, we do not want the most polluting leasing cars to fall into a lower add-on category. We simply want to maintain the high rate for those cars. I've filed about four motions to make the fleet cleaner. We have also tabled amendments to make the fleet cleaner. All these motions and amendments were not supported by the VVD. This shows the direction and vision of GroenLinks. The previous policy was not the policy of GroenLinks either, but it gave a result that was slightly cleaner than is the case on the basis of the current policy. We had a policy to make the fleet cleaner. Then it was said that this policy only slightly changed when it was very expensive. Then the VVD says: then no more policy at all to make the fleet cleaner. That's not a solution. We should work together to deploy the tax instruments we have so that innovation and employment in the Netherlands are promoted at a rapid pace. In the South of the Netherlands there are very nice opportunities for this. We then have jobs, cleaner air and cost savings. Unfortunately, I have never been able to poke the VVD for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u21	That's a long answer. Mrs Van Tongeren first asks why the old policy is not being continued, because that was so good. It departs from that within the framework of the basic path, in order to straighten it out in a very different way. Let me rephrase. The Netherlands has one of the highest environmental taxes in Europe. Does GroenLinks think that cost-effectiveness should be part of the environmental measures you take? Doesn't GroenLinks agree that resource policy is one of the most important measures to change the fleet and that you should do so jointly in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u22	That's actually three questions. Do you only have to take action in a European context? No. The Netherlands is very densely populated, so I am happy that we are taking different measures in some fields and making stricter demands. We also have other maximum speeds. The second question was: do you have to look at cost-effectiveness? You should also look at that, but not exclusively, because if you want to get a change to electric transport, then you need charging infrastructure and a mentality change in the sense that people are going to look at the total cost of ownership and not just at the purchase price. You can't bring about such a change if you just look at whether it's gonna be cheaper next year. That is what the Netherlands did at the time when it introduced natural gas. At that time, free cooking appliances were given away to spin that development. GroenLinks thinks you should do the same when changing the fleet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u23	No, we're not...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u24	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, but do I hear GroenLinks pleading for free cars?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u25	It may be a bit far from home for the VVD, but in India, for example, there will be a ban on the sale of diesel cars around the big cities. India has decided that all new cars sold should be electric from 2030 onwards. That does it by paying people the difference between the price of the petrol car and the electric car in the savings on the fuel. Such a thing is modern, innovative, revolutionary and good for entrepreneurs. That should appeal to the VVD. Such a policy, tailored to the Netherlands, would certainly favour GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u26	May I suggest that the questions and answers get a little less exciting? The questions always provoke an answer, but these answers provoke new questions. If we can agree on this further, Mrs Visser can ask one short question, one short answer. Then Mrs. Van Tongeren continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u27	It is a debate, so it is logical that we should respond to each other, but Mrs Van Tongeren has not answered my question. India's is nice, but we also know how the energy is generated there: not in a sustainable way. We also know that the sewers still have a long way to go there. If you really want to talk about public health, you just need to make sure you get good sewage. Mrs Van Tongeren is always talking about improving public health, so if you really want to do something, you have to look at it. Mrs Van Tongeren refers to India, but I had a specific question for her: does she now advocate free cars if they are electric?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u28	Mrs Visser obviously has some difficulty listening, because I ended my reply, as she will be able to read back in the Acts, with the words: a type of policy similar to that, tailored to the Dutch situation, would certainly favour GroenLinks. That is why we are co-signatory of the Vos motion, which calls for only emission-free new cars to be sold from 2025. That is why we have also submitted a car plan, as Mrs Visser also knows, in which we are speeding up the loading infrastructure. Three questions had been asked. In any case, I have answered two very clearly, but at the request of the President, I shall now proceed immediately with my text. I would like to have a response from the rulers to the following. Many car manufacturers are committed to innovation and cleaner, emission-free cars: Ford, BMW, Hyundai, KIA and even Porsche. We would like us in the South Netherlands, unlike the windmills, to be able to get there in time with the manufacturing industry for electric cars, together with TU, the colleges and the possibilities and the locational climate there. Our Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment is already working on this. For the windmills we had developed everything, but then came the manufacturing industry in Denmark. France, for example, is now pulling Tesla. Tesla wants to set up a European distribution centre. In the south of the Netherlands we already have a piece of Tesla. Are we going to pay attention to this or is this unfortunately disappearing from the Netherlands again? That's the future, isn't it, isn't it? Volkswagen has expressed its willingness to repay the tax advantages that have been wrongly obtained. Can the Secretary of State indicate what's going on with that? What amount are we talking about? Is there an estimate of that yet? Have any appointments been made with Volkswagen? It seems entirely logical for GroenLinks, when money comes back, to spend it on the same goal: a cleaner fleet. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? When you discover a fraud involving emissions, you also want to know if that has an effect on public health. According to GroenLinks, the measurement point along the A2 at Breukelen is the only one that measures the difference in emissions between a speed of 120 km/h and 130 km/h. The concentration of nitrogen dioxide increases there by about 10%. A local action group requested all the measurements and looked at them. The concentration went down nicely at first. The speed limit has been increased to 130 km/h and then you saw the value increase. How does this increase relate to the increase in speed of the air quality directive, Article 12 of the European Air Quality Directive? This article describes that countries strive, with the best and sustainable development, to always adjust the limit values downwards. It doesn't say it's allowed to fill it up to the limit values. There has been a lot of exchange in various debates on whether dirty diesel fraud has been incorporated into air quality figures or not. I've been trying to plow me through all the reports. I still don't know if this is the case and I still doubt it. If the government is still saying that this has been fully processed, I would like to have another explanation on this. I see in the states a linear extrapolation of the speed from 100 to 130 km/h, while emissions increase exponentially. I don't see that back in the state. An action group tried to wobble the underlying calculations, but that stopped. It can't be tested externally. Why should we as Dutch people not know how our own air quality is calculated? There are a number of motions on this subject which I would like to know about their implementation. There is one about paying more attention to electric and self-driving vehicles within the top sectors energy, high-tech and logistics. How's that going? I have here a motion that I wish to put to the vote on strengthened European supervision of the national approval authorities. I was asked earlier not to do so, because this would be discussed at European level. I'd like to know why it had to be stopped at the time and whether this is done now. Together with Mr Hoogland, I have received a motion on a ban on the removal of a soot filter. What implementation has the government given in the meantime? I also have a motion on the equalisation of emission requirements for diesel vehicles and on the emission requirements for petrol vehicles. This motion has been passed. How was this motion carried out? There would be a research proposal to the Chamber, but I haven't been able to find it yet. The last motion adopted is about giving greater weight to the environment and health in the procurement of vehicles by the Empire. I have not yet seen any implementation of this motion either. On the contrary, the police have purchased an incredible amount of Volkswagen Gulf.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u29	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u30	I know that, Mr. Chairman. I'm through my motions, too. However, the President will also help me because of the fact that the government really has to implement adopted chamberal motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u31	Okay, but you're gonna ask me next time. However, you can still have the floor, because Mr Madlener has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u32	I have a quick question. GroenLinks is always screaming at the drivers and at the high speed limit. The test has shown that there is one situation in which emissions are much worse: in traffic jams! GroenLinks is just the party that doesn't want to do anything about traffic control. In fact, GroenLinks wants to create even more traffic jams by building fewer roads. Doesn't Mrs Van Tongeren think it is very unwise that GroenLinks doesn't want to fight traffic jams?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u33	GroenLinks was the best driver in terms of traffic control through the introduction of road pricing when the last election programmes and counter-budgets were passed on, including environmental impacts. So we do want to fight the traffic jams, but perhaps in a different way than the PVV would like to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u34	But you do realize that if you're going to enter a bill drive, the people with the smallest scholarship, with the least money, are going to have to get out of that car first. So you chase the people with a small scholarship out of the car. I don't think that's very social.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u35	That is a remark on behalf of the PVV. It also showed that GroenLinks ensures that the disposable income of low-income people in the Netherlands increases. We do this in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u36	Mr. Chairman. The amendment tabled by my colleague, Carola Schouten, has just been adopted, which provides that the diesel surcharge will not be reduced in the coming years. I welcome this, because it emphasises that diesels emit too much. On 27 November last year, the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment wrote a letter to the Chamber which she ended with the following words: "It is therefore possible to make clean and economical diesels." On 16 February this year, the Secretary of State wrote: "My commitment is to switch cars to electric powertrains, where the exhaust gases are free of harmful substances and CO." I like these last words much better. Clean diesels do not exist and clean petrol cars do not exist. The Court recently adopted a motion in which it stated that the Netherlands should aim to sell only emission-free cars by 2025. That is the point on the horizon that we must work towards in the interests of our environment and our public health. It is therefore shocking to see time and again that the environment and public health are subordinated to business interests. Volkswagen used shuffling software and didn't take it too closely with the fuel consumption and CO emissions statement. Other car brands show that the actual emissions of nitrogen oxides are three to eight times higher than the manufacturer's estimate, with even an outlier upwards of twenty times. TNO notes that the emission requirements are still being tightened, but that the practical emissions of NO in diesel have almost not been reduced in the past two decades. That's not true, of course. My group believes that maximum transparency is now necessary. Consumers also have a right to do so. The Secretary of State does not see much benefit in accessing the source codes of car software in order to detect manipulation, because software is becoming increasingly complex. However, by making source codes public, producers can avoid the appearance of manipulation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to advocate this within Europe? I understand that the Labour Party and the Green Left will table a proposal on this, which my group will support. Of course, it is a good thing that we have a real driving emissions test, which gives a more realistic picture of the emissions of cars and avoids fraud as at Volkswagen. So much for the good news. The test allows high error margins, whereby cars may exceed the nitrogen standard more than twice until 2021 and still exceed the nitrogen standard one and a half times thereafter. I know that the Secretary of State, also following a motion by Mrs Van Veldhoven and myself, has made every effort to reduce the conformity factor. It is regrettable that there is no support for this within Europe. Why would you set a standard if it wasn't met in the distance? This undermines consumer confidence. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of further tightening up in the coming years, for example through the third or fourth package to be discussed for the RDE test, or through contributing to research into accurate measuring equipment? Or are the appointments fixed until 2021? The same applies to the new CO standards. The purpose of the new test cycle is to reduce the difference between the practical use and the manufacturer's declaration and not to undermine the standards, according to the Secretary of State. Those are firm words that I can wholeheartedly endorse. For the ChristianUnion, the conversion factor must be zero. Deviations from the past must not now be rewarded by weakening standards. Especially after the ambitious climate agreement, we should not allow weaker CO standards. Can the Secretary of State outline what her commitment is and what opportunities she sees for fair standards? Which other European countries can we work with? I understand that there is one car group that has developed a test to test CO2 emissions in practice and which also makes these test results publicly available. Can the Secretary of State call on the Dutch car importers to join and carry out a similar test? What does the Secretary of State think of the idea of making the results of practical tests carried out in Europe publicly available, for example via the Internet? After Dieselgate, the RDW sent a letter to the 22 manufacturers who received type-approval. However, all manufacturers deny that shuffling software has been used. That's not very surprising. The RDW is now carrying out a test programme in which practical emissions are measured. Can the Secretary of State indicate how these tests are carried out? Have tests already been carried out on CO and NO emissions and, if so, what were the results? Has any action been taken against car manufacturers as a result of the tests carried out in the case of detected deviations? How will consumers be informed about the test results? The Christian Union calls for maximum transparency. Is the Secretary of State for Finance going to make another claim to the manufacturers for lost tax revenue due to wrong CO figures? I will conclude with the proposed tender for the purchase of police cars. I am pleased that the Secretary of State in response to my parliamentary questions in the draft programme of demands does not support the requirement that it should be diesel. However, even after the removal of this requirement, the police will most likely purchase diesel vehicles, as the current tax exemptions for the police make it by far the cheapest option. Is the Secretary of State for Finance prepared to reconsider the exemption for police cars, so that there really is a level playing field in the upcoming call for tenders, where sustainable procurement is given a chance? I look forward to answering my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u37	Mr. Chairman. Last year it came out that the automotive industry, or at least one brand prominently, has widely cheated with diesel engine software. Dieselgate was born. Can we now see that we have been deceived by car manufacturers for years? Many people are wondering with me how this can happen. What health damage did it cause? The CDA wants a fair economy, in which a product meets the legal standards and corresponds to the data on the sales brochure. I believe that this massive fraud should be dealt with and punished. In 2013, TNO already informed the government and the Chamber that the actual emission values were much higher than those of the tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u38	I'm getting tired of all the crocodile tears now from the CDA. The CDA contributed to the test cycle. It's just been a part of it. You always listened to the car industry in Germany and to Mrs Merkel. Now you're acting like you don't know anything. You have contributed to this way of shuffling. You just have to be honest about that. You can say here that things have to be different, but don't pretend that you hate it all. Your party is partly responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u39	Mr President, Mr Madlener speaks to you, but I assume you have not cheated. Over the past few decades, the CDA has, perhaps much longer, contributed to a lot of things. The point now is that we have just been tricked, that we want clear answers to the question of how this can be done and that we prevent it from happening in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u40	Mr Madlener, now with a precise wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u41	Mr President, through you, I would like to ask the CDA spokesman: do you think that in the past, through the European Parliament, the CDA has something to blame for drawing up the rules for the car industry, or do you say that the CDA is doing just fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u42	Whether the CDA has it all worked out, I would like to leave it to the voters at another election. What I do know is that the PVV blames everyone. It was just said: when it rains, the PvdA gets blamed, when the sun shines, probably the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u43	Yes, you are the largest group in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u44	Mr. Chairman. I just said that TNO informed the government and the Chamber that the actual emission values were much higher than those of the test. With this information, the Dutch Government has done far too little. Why didn't she ring the bell at the time? Only last year, in a letter to the Chamber, the cabinet made it clear that there was a significant deviation between the test and practice emissions of NOX in diesel cars. Can the Minister and the Secretary of State indicate how this went within the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment? Why, for example, have no clear signals been sent to the Chamber? It seems that the cabinet is hiding behind TNO, because it writes in 2015: "TNO never found out that software fraud was involved." The question that lives with the CDA group is why the cabinet has not given an order to further examine the causes. Noting to the Chamber that in reality the emission values are much higher than those of the test, does the Cabinet not change their search? After all, when the Americans went criminally against Volkswagen, nothing happened at national and European level. The fact that there is no possibility of refusing to import these cars or formal means of addressing them to the manufacturer or the national authority which approves them is a shortcoming of the European rules and/or our legal system. The CDA is in favour of the internal market, but not so that we can be fooled without reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u45	This is an appropriate time for me to ask Mr Geurts a question. No one wants to be cheated. There was an opportunity to do something about that in the European Parliament. There was a proposal not to relax standards, but to tighten them up. Mr Geurts does not have to answer for what his group in the European Parliament is doing, but at that time the CDA members in that Parliament did not vote in favour of the proposal to tighten up standards, but rather the proposal to relax them. How does Mr Geurts feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u46	Emotionally, I can come a long way with Mr Hoogland. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made a different choice. She said that the swift introduction of the compromise would be better than long uncertainty about a new compromise to be reached. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has made that assessment. Emotionally, I can follow Mr Hoogland, but that is the rational balance that has been made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u47	I note that we share the view that the European Parliament has missed an opportunity at that time. Of course, it was not just the CDA Group; more Members voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u48	We're gonna make it through this, too. The CDA has filed a motion to establish a supervisory authority. Despite this being in line with the Social Democrats in the European Parliament, the PvdA voted against it. That's what happened. I have some questions for the cabinet. What are the possibilities offered by the new Commission proposal for a framework regulation on market surveillance and type-approval of motor vehicles? Is there going to be an authority to which things that are not right can be presented? Does the new Commission proposal offer uniform possibilities for imposing penalties on manufacturers who commit fraud? How is it ensured that the national approval authorities do the same? I come to an observation that has still not been clarified. Not only vehicles of the brand I mentioned earlier, but cars of all brands have five to six times higher NO emissions in a road test than in a roller bench test. If there was no software manipulation in these brands, why did this happen? We ask ourselves this question and we are happy to answer it to the cabinet. Were those tests so bad? I hope that the Secretary of State and the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment can tell us more about this. What's being done to get the bottom stone up? I have read that it is under investigation and that it is being coordinated by the European Commission. What's the status? Apparently in the Netherlands there are some 160,000 cars with the so-called "scam software." They are all recalled and adapted this year with a technical solution approved by the German authority. This German authority probably approved most of the cars, which did not actually meet the requirements. So my confidence in that is not really that great. Is the software only monitored read: ticked off by the RDW or is it also checked and investigated? We believe that the owners of these cars, who were not aware of the fraud at Volkswagen, should not suffer from a worse working car. Could the RDW test the operation of the custom cars and compare them with the previous functioning? I still have a few questions for the Secretary of State for Finance. The CDA wants the tax advantage that has been wrongly granted to come back and that is paid by the automotive industry. The ignorant citizen must not suffer from this. What action is the Secretary of State taking to make this possible? The Euro 5 and possibly the Euro 6 engines should not have been allowed with this emission value. Are these cars illegal now? It turns out that shuffle diesels sometimes have five to six times as much NO emissions as reported. That actually makes the difference with oldtimers very small. For oldtimers, a lot of extra taxes had to be paid, because of the pollution. How does the Secretary of State look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u49	Mr. Chairman. It's nice to have three rulers present, I haven't seen that many times. By the way, the Secretary of State for Finance has a history of traffic, so that doesn't hurt. The subject is of course a bit less cozy, because we are just getting screwed up in front of us. This seems to be becoming normal now, although this is hardly the case with the Panama Papers. I took my anticapitalist song book out of the closet once again, because that is much needed. I have decided to give a copy of this to Mrs Visser, because it is really time for a political revolution. I'll start with a few questions to get the numbers straight. How much more NO emissions are we talking about? Is it still 500% to 600% above the norm? Have any new facts come up? What I still don't understand, despite one or two sets of written questions, is that in the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen and the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme, you can't see that something is wrong. Is that due to the program approach or the fact that it's a black box and the fact that you don't see the details anymore? I can't imagine that provinces won't notice if they're going to distribute development space in the context of the PAS. After all, you allocate emissions to an object, in this case a car. Is the CO limited to about 7% higher than the so-called NEDC test or have more figures come out about it? And how many cars are we talking about? Are they indeed 160,000 cars, namely Euro 5 and Euro 6 diesel passenger cars and Volkswagen, SEAT, ŠKODA and Audi diesel vans? Or is it a lot more brands? Is it also about petrol cars? What more research is needed to get this up? As far as health is concerned, the Secretary of State of I and M says that there is no real evidence that it has taken years to live. I refer to an article in Het Financieele Dagblad of 3 February, which mentions a damage to society of 29 billion. Milieudefensie talks about two and a half months of shortening life on this issue. You might ask yourself what two and a half months is all about, but you'll just miss a Champions League finale with Ajax because of that. At least it's bad enough. 40 European mayors have protested against weak European policies. They point to research by the World Health Organisation, which would show that traffic emissions cost 75 000 people a year in Europe prematurely. I come to the sanctions. What has the Netherlands really done to ensure that these tests were correct? What sanctions might have been attached to this? The Netherlands is obliged to do so under Directive 2007/46/EC. It concerns the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles. It's a framework directive. It literally states that it is the responsibility of a Member State to ensure that the situation is in line with the approved type. Clearly, that didn't happen. Apart from the current cases brought in the United States, little seems to be happening on this side of the lake. Is that right? The way things have been set up is so big that you would expect more action from the government. Or can we do little because of the European setting of this problem? I also refer to a few things that Mr Hoogland has said, such as: the Public Prosecutor sees no grounds for criminal proceedings. In reply to Mr Hoogland's questions it is quite clear: "This ban is sanctioned in the Netherlands by the Environmental Management Act on the basis of the Law on Economic Crimes (WED). According to the WED, infringement of the prohibition where it has been intentionally committed may be regarded as a crime." And in this case, the offence was committed intentionally. What's in there isn't cat piss, is it? There is actually very little happening and then the ACM also comes up with the statement: we are not doing any further research, because Volkswagen has publicly put on all the penance rug. Yes, hello! Then I really don't know what else to recommend to the government. Has there been a report at all? Is that another option for the Empire? Or should we encourage other parties to do so? I also have a question for the Secretary of State for Finance about the money that would come back. This would be clarified in the first quarter of 2016. This came up in response to questions from GroenLinks. That's just about the CO. Is that money gonna come back? How much is it? Can we also expect money on the NO, or is it completely out of the interest of the Secretary of State for Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u50	Mr Smaling was just talking about criminality. I recall that we heard in one of the previous technical briefings that the Netherlands could also request access to the criminal record in Germany. Would Mr Smaling be interested with me in whether the cabinet has done so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u51	Yeah, I'm very interested in that. I would like to thank Mrs Van Veldhoven for this move.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u52	This was in line with Mr Smaling's speech. That's why I thought this might fit in with the question. Then we will put this question together to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u53	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u54	Mr Smaling continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u55	What are the possible solutions? A number of colleagues have already said a few things, and I have a question on this. Is there still a faster transition to real driving emissions than is currently agreed in Europe? Is there any possibility of imposing a temporary import restriction on cars that have been found to be more polluting than those tested in the lab? Do you think you could involve yourself in some of this? Can you check the emissions at the apk, too? Is that a passable road? Finally, I have an even bigger thing that also refers to previous debates. Shouldn't you go to a more rural integrated traffic plan or an urban air quality plan that goes beyond the environmental zone discussion? We have adopted a motion on speeding up electric driving and we see that cities all give their own color to the implementation of environmental zones. In my view, this is a temporary and suboptimal solution on the route to clean cities. I'd like to hear the cabinet's ideas on this. Depending on what is being said, there will be a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u56	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u57	I'm done, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u58	I am very curious about the anti-capitalist songs that Mr Smaling has in store for me. Maybe I recognize some of them from the former Yugoslavia. Mr Smaling's speech just now really sounded like an anti-autologist. I hear Mr Smaling mention all kinds of points which show that traffic is very bad. What does the SP advocate now? What is the position of the SP with regard to the motorist, especially the motorist with the small wallet, which Mr Smaling often talks about? What exactly does the SP stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u59	We are absolutely not anti-car, but we are anti-fraud. I really think that's more than horrible. In this case, cars are involved, but there is also manure fraud and meat fraud and there are Panama Papers and so on. However, if that is possible, and fortunately, there is a certain pace at which we want cars that now operate with traditional transport fuels to switch to electric, hydrogen or formic acid. If it's cleaner and affordable, we'd like it. Last week the car letter was dealt with here. At that time we also discussed in detail the Great Motion which proposes to ensure that the smaller used electric cars, some of which have been decommissioned, remain inboard and that people with a small wallet can use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u60	It is a good thing that Mr Smaling is giving this explanation. In his speech I heard one big story that all this traffic is very bad. Let me come back to his last point. He says that in the transition to clean there is also the term "affordable." That intrigues me, because he voted in favour of the motion. He knows the sustainable fuel vision. He knows that it has been passed on by the party, and he also knows that, if you calculate that there should be 200,000 electric cars by 2020, there will be €11,500 per car. How does he rhyme with the affordability of the car and the target group he claims to stand up for? Is that car still reachable for that SP picker?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u61	On the one hand, my job is to make sure it stays affordable. Mrs Visser is quite right about that. On the other hand, I prelude a little bit to the fact that in the process of change that is now going on, those of electric cars, but also with a broader shift from fossil to sustainable ones, some things start to prude and then start to speed up. They then come into an exponential phase of change and then it becomes cheaper. You can tell by solar cells. That price drops like crazy because it has become mass production and because the effectiveness of the conversion from sun to current is improving. Then it can go fast. If this is the case with electric transport, I hope that this price reduction will continue. Mrs Visser continues to think a little linearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u62	We're not gonna provoke each other. I give the floor to Mr Madlener of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u63	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about Dieselgate, but also about politics itself. How well-spent greening can turn out in practice, we see in this dossier. How politicians are not only led by lobbyists, but have sometimes become lobbyists themselves. A paper reality has been created of environmental rules, which in practice means nothing but a basis for taxation. All the crocodile tears that we have seen today, especially from the major parties, including the European Parliament, mean nothing, because those political parties knew long ago about the inadequate regulation. After all, they have contributed to this. And not only the European politicians, the Netherlands has also resigned to the practice. As early as 2011, TNO informed the Minister of I and M about the derogations. Others have already asked about that. The Ministry didn't do anything. The practice has been for many years that the European test method for measuring fuel consumption differs enormously from reality. Every Dutchman knows that. If you buy a car with a consumption of 1 in 25, you'll be lucky to get 1 in 16. Everyone can see that all these fiscally promoted hybrid cars are economical on paper, but in practice consume much more and therefore also emit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u64	Mr Madlener says that everyone knows. Does the PVV think it is normal for consumers to be lied to about how much a car consumes? Wouldn't it be normal for you to get honest information about how much your car consumes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u65	Of course I am in favour of good consumer information. We can't argue with that. What I object to is that all the major parties here say: what a shame, how could it have come to this? Everyone knew. In fact, the rules almost demand this kind of bullshit. I'm sure that's why. We'll hear about that. I have the impression that this is not being dealt with legally. Let us not take all these crocodile tears seriously. It is the parties themselves who have cooperated in this regulation. It is not enough, and the consumer is indeed the victim of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u66	I am very pleased with this summary. The rules are inadequate and the consumer is the victim. That must not be the commitment towards the future. I will therefore table a number of motions in the second term and hope for the warm support of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u67	I'll definitely check it out. In my speaking time, I also come to the consumer, who should not suffer from this. The car industry itself tried to stretch that nonsense of regulation, while everyone knew that the test method was totally inadequate. There has always been a huge lobby in the European Union. In Brussels even 16 Members of the European Parliament seem to have walked around who were paid by the car industry, including Dutch political parties. It's almost unbelievable. The fact that parliamentarians are hired as lobbyists by large companies is the most normal thing in the world for a number of parties. We can also look at our own First Chamber. There is also a lot of money being put in the direction of politicians who can influence legislation. The VVD is getting very excited today in the AD arguing for criminalising shuffle software, while VVD heavyweight Hans van Baalen, when the shuffle software affair became known, was on the payroll of Mercedes Benz and the car lobby RAI. As a parliamentarians, he received €12,000 per year for lobbying. It shouldn't be any crazier. That's why I'd rather not talk about shuffling software anymore, but about Van Baalen software. The PVV is sometimes accused of not paying enough attention to environmental interests and of listening too much to the citizens or looking at the economy, but when environmental policy passes through idealism, the green blinders are often set up. This fits in with a pattern of failed environmental policy. Environmental policy is sometimes even worse than the ailment. I have some examples of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u68	Before you go any further, I see that Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Visser have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u69	I also note today that in this house we have a good habit of not speaking to people who cannot defend themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u70	I think this is a wise remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u71	I would like to support that and I would like to make a point of order. Mr Madlener said between the nose and the lips that the First Chamber members received money from the car lobby. I think that's a very serious charge towards First Chamber members. He doesn't mention them either, but he says that between the nose and the lips. I think it is a point of order that people are put in an evil light, without any explanation and proof. I do not think this is appropriate in this debate. I'd like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u72	Mr Madlener, on the basis of these comments, I suggest that you focus on the substance of the debate on what is now on the agenda...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u73	I'd like to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u74	... and doesn't mention any other person. You may respond briefly, but then proceed with the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u75	I think we should also look at causes in this public debate. The reason is that there are also politicians who want to be paid as lobbyists. I can't say otherwise. I do not know what Mr Van Baalen received €12,000 for, but that will not be to talk about flip-flops. It was paid for by the car industry. We all know that the car industry lobby was strong. First Chamber, same as before. I may not have to say that they were given money, but there are all kinds of conflicts of interest. People with jobs are hired and they have other interests. I'd like to mention that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u76	It's been mentioned. You're calling it the First Chamber again, aren't you? That's not a full-time job. Let's add that to the list, shall we? Those people are just gonna have to make money. I suggest that you continue with your substantive speech in this debate on diesel cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u77	I'm gonna go on with this, but I want to mention it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u78	You mentioned it, and now you're moving on, or I'm gonna have to do other things. I trust you'll proceed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u79	It fits into a pattern of failed environmental policy. I would like to mention a few examples of failed environmental policy in front of all of us. We all know it's a failure in advance, but we're still going through those green blinkers. Take the blending of biofuels. Precious food is destroyed and entire rainforests are burned down to start palm oil plantations. Another example of environmental policy failure: the majority of biomass in coal plants. The Netherlands is going to spend 4 billion on cutting Canadian forests which are then shipped to our country and burned here in the coal plants. Beautiful environmental policy, if you wear your blinders, but it's too crazy for words. That's not called environmental policy. D66 comes today with a plea to indicate the actual emissions of cars in the showroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u80	Is the PVV aware of the motion adopted by GroenLinks, among other things, to stop biomass in coal plants? The accusation that the green side of the Chamber wants this kind of policy is not correct. As far as palm oil is concerned, my party has always insisted that this should be certified, sustainable palm oil. In any case, these two examples are wrong to support Mr Madlener's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u81	That's not entirely true. Years ago, I was an environmental spokesperson here. At that time, we saw that the policy of subsidising palm oil led precisely to the burning of forests in Indonesia, for example. So the policy was well meant here but led to side effects that we do not want. GroenLinks doesn't want that either. I think we have also supported his motion. If you have your blinders on, it seems nice environmental policy, but in practice it is just bad policy. GroenLinks agrees with this example, but the government will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u82	We are talking today about the fact that all kinds of emissions from cars, such as NOen CO, differ significantly from the standard set. The consumer is not aware of this either. Next, the PVV comes up with a whole talk about failing environmental policy. I don't get it at all. I fully agree that we should, above all, stop subsidies on biomass in coal-fired power stations. But what does it have to do with the fact that a car brand doesn't comply with the rules and agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u83	I don't know if Volkswagen didn't follow the rules. It may also be that the rules are so bad and unachievable that they lead to this behavior. That's what I suspect. I suspect that these are environmental rules on which politicians can say'see how strict we are with our emissions', while in the meantime the practice is completely out of line with reality. That's what I'm talking about. It is environmental policy that is totally wrong in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u84	The Secretary of State explained very clearly in one of her letters that it is indeed possible to get emissions to the standard if there are certain techniques, two systems enter into force. Those two systems work on the roller band, but not when the car gets on the road. They're being deported for efficiency reasons. Will we then put together the question to the Secretary of State whether or not the standards are feasible? I am convinced that the standards are feasible but there is deliberately software turned off, otherwise arranged to in practice better... Well, you know what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u85	I totally understand you. We want good consumer information, because no one has anything to do with promises that are not being made. On the other hand, we shouldn't shoot through. Of course it is all feasible and it can be done, but it costs a lot of money. The question is whether a car is still affordable. The same is true for now pleading for electric cars. That's beautiful and in ten years they may have gotten really cheap, but we'll just have to see that. It makes little sense to say with firm statements and motions: I am obliging the electric car in ten years' time. That would be very stupid if that electric car were to be hugely expensive in ten years' time. So we shouldn't do that. We must wait and see how technical developments progress and make the right decision at the right time. What happens here often is wanting to force green blinders on something with a green story, while in practice it doesn't end up with a ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u86	I want to tell the PVV a green story and hear what she thinks. If cars drive 130, emissions of NO47% are higher than they are 100. Thus, almost half is added, according to TNO's research. Does the PVV with GroenLinks think that we should at least be measured in places where 130 driving is allowed, so as not to make it even dirtier for people who live nearby? We heard in Mrs Van Veldhoven's speech that half a pack of cigarettes a day is involved if you live along such a highway. This is not a blinder story; it is figures from TNO. I know the PVV as an ardent supporter of 130 driving. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u87	I'd rather have 140. This is about practice versus theory. I often drive highways where you can drive 130 now, but the trucks still drive 85, 90. Most cars run 120, 125. I used to drive 130 myself if you liked 120. In practice, I don't see so much difference between 130 driving and 120 driving. These 50% extra emissions might perhaps be possible in a theoretical case. I think it's not that bad in practice, but we'll hear it from the Minister later. There are, of course, standards, which I have always heard the Minister say she wants to abide by. So we shouldn't pretend it's all that bad right now. The air has been getting cleaner in the Netherlands for years. We think that is a good thing. Of course, we are also in favour of clean air, but we must not rush through so that the car becomes priceless if we are going to be in traffic. Indeed, as Mrs Van Tongeren knows, congestion causes much more emissions than driving at 130 km/h.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u88	I note, however, that 130 driving is not the subject of this debate. So let's keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u89	I have a point of order first, with a response to what the President is proposing. With the scoundrel diesels it makes a difference whether you drive 120 or 130, because in practice there are hardly any cars on the road at those speeds. Usually, the things manufacturers use to make cars cleaner are turned off at speeds above 120. So unfortunately the debate on 120 or 130 driving is relevant as far as my group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u90	A brief question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u91	I'm going to try to ask a concise question. Mr Madlener says it's all okay, because he's still driving 120 where you like 130. The only point where we measure this is in Breukelen, and there's the next thing. Since people get used to driving 130 there, the air doesn't get any cleaner. On the contrary, it is slowly getting dirtier again. Does Mr Madlener still think that we can take all these measurements here with a grain of salt?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u92	Yes, I think the air in the Netherlands is generally very acceptable in quality. I see it's been getting better for years, so I'm very happy about that. I don't see how it's a world of difference whether you're driving 120 or 130. I think that difference is hardly measurable. In practice, it will do something, but very little. Honestly, I think this is a lot of noise for a very small point. I cannot therefore go along with Mrs Van Tongeren's speech. I know she wants to bash the car and prefer to ban cars altogether, but I'm not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u93	Mrs. Dik-Faber, you'd already been here, or do you have a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u94	I have a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u95	Good. Short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u96	Mr Madlener said that the standard must be met. I'm glad to hear that statement from the PVV. I think that's very important. I would like to address the cost aspect. The PVV is worried about the costs, but I don't think that's necessary. By setting a standard, you also stimulate innovations and stimulate the automotive industry to start working on these innovations. Does the PVV share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u97	In theory, you could share that view, but we have to be honest that the Netherlands is a small country when it comes to the automotive industry. The Netherlands is such a small player that I don't think the Netherlands alone can change an entire industry by creating a certain demand. So I think it is wise that the Netherlands should just wait for technical developments, and only be chosen when it is affordable. This choice, of course, is made by people themselves as consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u98	We make almost no more cars ourselves in the Netherlands. That's right. A lot of industry is gone, but we are dealing with the emissions of all those cars in our little country. The country is densely populated and public health is worth a sweet thing to us. Now it is a question of whether we should not be working for these very strict standards in Europe as well. It is precisely when you set a standard that the European car industry will start working on it and innovation will take place. When more cars meet the standard and there is more innovation, it becomes cheaper. Let me give you no example, but we also see that the manufacturer of electric cars in the Netherlands, which will soon be able to build cheaper electric cars, will also be available to you and me. In the end, we can also do a service to air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u99	That's a dangerous argument, isn't it? If you make too strict demands, that could mean two things. Whether the manufacturers are going to shuffle, and the cars do not actually meet the requirements that happened here or the cars are going to be far too expensive. Of course we want strict requirements, and they are there, but if you push them too high, it will be far too expensive to be able to produce that car. With all the taxes that all the parties here like to charge on cars, the car becomes priceless. We want to keep driving affordable for everyone. This means that the car still pollutes a bit, but fortunately it is heading in the right direction and I am happy with that. Mr. Chairman. I was in the process of giving examples of failed environmental policy. D66 had a plea to stick the actual emissions on cars in the showrooms. Of course, it is fine to inform the consumer properly, but if you compare the environmental impact of a traditional car and that of an electric or hybrid car, you also have to look at the production of those cars. Then it turns out that a battery like this is very environmentally polluting. You might even wonder if, when you look at the whole cycle, an electric car is more environmentally friendly than a small diesel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u100	It's always good to ask ourselves these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u102	And I am also pleased that the PVV is in favour of greater transparency for consumers. So let us give an extra signal to the cabinet in particular. And let's take the entire CO footprint of production in many more places. If we do that and take it more as a basis for our procurement policy, we can actually implement environmental policy based on real CO emissions. I hope to find the PVV on our side from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u103	Yeah, but I wonder if D66 does. If you want to assess the environmental impact of a car, then you need to look not only at emissions when the car is driving, but also at its production. In fact, I have information that the production of batteries, their processing and all the raw materials necessary for this cause an enormous environmental burden. And you say, "Everyone electric, great." But then you won't look beyond your nose. So do you not think that you should look at the entire production of that car, including the processing, the batteries and the materials used for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u104	Absolutely. That is why we are very much in favour of the circular economy, the circular economy in which all these materials are re-used and therefore do not end up in the environment. That's exactly the distinction we have to make with the old economy, where we buy something, use it for a while and throw it away, after which all this crap ends up in the environment. No, we have to go to re-use of raw materials. For example, if you reuse aluminium, it saves 90% of CO emissions. That is why it is so important that we not only measure it, but that we also incorporate incentives into our system to re-use the materials. I'm glad the PVV is attached to that, too. Then we can probably take steps together for an effective environmental policy in this area too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u105	Of course: there is nothing against the reuse of material. However, it must remain affordable. You can say you want to do anything to green it, but if it makes the car priceless, I can't support it. Then we're just too fast. I hope with Mrs Van Veldhoven that in 20 years' time we will be driving a pollution-free electric car for little money. That would be nice, but we'll have to wait and see. At least that is not what we are going to do here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u106	No, but measuring is knowing. I am pleased that Mr Madlener also believes that the re-use of materials can also contribute to this. After that, everyone makes their decisions. In twenty years' time, all in an electric car seems to me a good goal, if we can find each other in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u107	Again, you shouldn't write that down as a goal. You just have to look at it in 20 years. I don't know if that car's gonna be affordable in 20 years or not. It is not affordable at the moment; I just want to make that clear. I leave all the green dreams to Mrs Van Veldhoven's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u108	Good. Mr Madlener continues. I suggest he finish his speech first. If there are any more questions, they can be asked to him afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u109	The essence of my speech is that politics itself has kilos of butter on its head when it comes to environmental policy and that Dutch consumers often suffer from it. That's why I want to know what the government's gonna do next. For the PVV it is important that driving remains affordable. We only support technical developments if they are affordable and profitable. That goes slowly and steadily; it takes time. The Dieselgate affair was partly caused by politics itself. This must not lead to a blurring of environmental policy and tax increases, which will lead to a loss of prosperity for Dutch citizens. Nor should it lead to a total ban on diesel cars in ten years' time, as proposed by the PvdA. Of course, we shouldn't want that. I have some specific questions about Volkswagen. Did Volkswagen even break any laws? In America, yes, that is clear, but in Europe and the Netherlands? What law has been broken and what is the government going to do about it? Volkswagen has also announced measures for its customers. I have just heard a plea in this Chamber that all this must be done. Anyone who has this software in their car would get a free update from Volkswagen. That sounds nice, but it's not pretty at all. This adjustment could lead to a significant increase in fuel consumption or a reduction in engine performance. In Germany a first test has already been done with the new software, with that adjustment. This showed that a Volkswagen of the type Amarok started using half a litre per 100 kilometers more with the diesel engine in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u110	You have 15 seconds, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u111	That's almost enough, Mr. Chairman. In what way will the Minister ensure that Dutch car owners who drive a Volkswagen are not chased at extra cost? Will the Minister also find out in the Netherlands whether the engine modifications offered by Volkswagen's customers lead to extra fuel consumption or to worse performance before Volkswagen starts a recall action?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u112	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u113	Is the Minister prepared to make arrangements with Volkswagen and possibly other car brands that have done this kind of trick, so that the damage caused to car owners is compensated for? Can a Volkswagen owner actually choose to have the software modified or not? Is the Authority Consumer & Markt engaged to protect the interests of the Dutch car owner?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u114	All right, Mr Madlener, that was your speech. You're way out of your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u115	I'm very curious. Mr Madlener is beating wildly on behalf of the PVV, but he also has a double morale. He just indicated that the requirements surrounding the automotive industry are too high. However, when I look at animal welfare and livestock farming, his group is the first to raise the requirements, sometimes even faster than the Animal Party. Explain that difference, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u116	Mr Geurts should ask the animal welfare spokesperson. We do consider animal welfare to be very important, but we also consider affordability of the car to be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u117	Here you see a very clear double morale at the PVV. It seems that nothing can be done with the car industry, but livestock farming must be able to do anything in the Netherlands. I really don't understand how there's such a double moral in this story. Mr Madlener is bewildered, but he does not have a good answer when I ask a question about the double morale of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u118	I'm here to discuss environmental policy. I have shown that, in practice, well-meaning environmental policy often does not work out well at all. The Dieselgate affair is an example of this. When it comes to animal welfare, Mr Geurts really needs to be with Mr Graus. Mr Geurts knows that too. He may also be a spokesperson for animal welfare. The only thing I can say about it is that my knowledge on this point does not go so far as to say that we consider animal welfare to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u119	Then we simply go to Mr Madlener's area: car taxes. In 2011, the PVV continued to support the cabinet. She was too cowardly to really drive, but she tolerated it a little bit. Car taxes changed during that period. CO rates were introduced, particularly for cheaper cars and cars that emit less, but also for more expensive cars. A number of exemptions were abolished. I can read the whole list, but Mr Madlener knows what it says, because he was a spokesperson in this area. What does Mr Madlener think of the PVV doing? This is one of the things that he puts under the heading'senseless environmental taxes' and'smooth left-wing crazy policy'. I quote Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u120	Unfortunately, we haven't been able to get everything. We had to work with the CDA and the VVD. We have achieved a lot of good things for the drivers. We still benefit from that every day. Many more roads are being built. The traffic jams have been reduced. I am proud of that, but we have not been able to abolish or seriously reduce car taxes. That's too bad. Maybe it'll work in another cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u121	Mr Madlener is reasonable about what he did himself when the PVV gave him tolerance, but he was just as reasonable about all the other parties here. He gives all kinds of blows and speaks of "those parties that raise taxes," but the PVV also increased taxes himself. Why does Mr Madlener have a double morale?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u122	I don't want to preach double morals here, but if you support a cabinet, you can't pull everything in. It's not our hobby to increase car taxes. I know that a lot of good has also been achieved for the motorist. I'm still proud of that. As regards the construction of new roads, a great deal has been achieved at that time. The 130 km/h is also a good example. As a result, people get far less speeding fines, and that is a good thing. We haven't been able to pull everything in, but given the polls, there's hope on the horizon. I hope that the PVV will be able to reduce car taxes considerably in the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u123	The answer is good, but it does not do justice to the accusations that have just been made. Mr Madlener just said: they increase car taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u124	I would like to ask a question concerning Mr Madlener's speech. He indeed started his interruptions towards other parties with the regulation in his hand. Now there's another regulation in front of it. The question is what the PVV thinks of this package of measures. Does the PVV agree? Or should there be changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u125	I'm worried. We have given the whole of car and environmental legislation to Brussels. That's why we have very little influence on it. We are talking to the Dutch Government here, but they are all Brussels regulations and methods of measurement in Brussels. It is under the lobby of the German and French car industry in particular; so does Mrs Visser. So I'm worried about that. If you break environmental rules, it may mean that the rules are not being passed, that everyone is being cheated and that everyone is disappointed or that the car is becoming too expensive. That's what I'm worried about. I believe that we should give the car industry the opportunity to make technical adjustments at such a rate that it is feasible. This requires very precise legislation. We should not suddenly go ahead with environmental policy and say: it is bad and everyone has to drive electric. We haven't got that far yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u126	In my view, Mr Madlener and I can find each other very well on that point. However, that is not what my question was about. There is now a regulation before it. In the coming months, the cabinet will negotiate this regulation, regardless of what the Germans, the French or others say about it. My question is whether the PVV agrees with the new test method, with the new standards and with what that means. Mr Madlener pointed out to a number of colleagues that they had agreed. The question is therefore also now whether the PVV supports this line of government. What assignment or message will the PVV give the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u127	We have, of course, given this part out of our hands to Brussels. That's too bad, because we all think it's something, but we're hardly really going over it. We are all doing this through the European Parliament. There are people from Mrs Visser's party and people from my party. That's what they're gonna do. However, Mrs Visser asks me how I feel about this. I believe that, of course, the tests should be as consistent as possible with the practice. It'll do you some good. However, I should also like to warn that this often leads to an increase in taxes. Mrs Visser also knows how things are in politics. Requirements in testing are raised, after which tax revenues increase accordingly. I want to be careful of that, because the motorist should not be a milk cow, and that is the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u128	Mr. Chairman. We can fall into a trap by going into all kinds of techniques, procedures and legal explanations when looking for an answer to the question of what happened. In fact, according to my group, this debate can be summarized in the answer to one question. Agreements have been made and there have been specific or non-criminalisations. Those agreements have not been met by the car industry. What does that mean, especially for the future? There is now a proposal, and the regulation is now being worked out in Europe. After all, the car market is an international market, I also say to Mr Madlener. It is produced for an international market. That is why you must also agree on standards at international level. However, if you do so, you can assume that these agreements will be met. When you say you're gonna do certain things with each other, you can assume that that's going to be kept. And what can we do if, for example, the car industry fails to comply with such agreements? The American supervisor has pointed out to us the fraud that Volkswagen committed. It turned out that something had eventually been criminalized. In fact, the key question on the VVD is: do we now have, with the new proposal, a stick in our hands to be able to strike if there is a violation? Perhaps we can compare this with the pre-filled tax form that the Secretary of State has made possible. That's actually what this is about. We're gonna make a deal with each other. We do that in good faith. We're assuming that whoever signed the agreement has kept it. I see a parallel between the tax forms and this file. If you're gonna make a deal, you're gonna have to be able to keep it. If you don't keep them, you have to be able to explain why you didn't keep them. Is this possible and is this sufficiently regulated with all the proposals that are now before us and are being worked out? I would ask one of the three leaders present to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u129	I regularly hear in contributions from the VVD the reproach that information from environmental clubs is not right. I've got a big article here from the Financial Times. It contains a timeline for this fraud case. After all, we are not talking so much about unwanted behaviour as about crimes. In 2006 the Transport & Environment group was the first whistleblower in this field in Europe. In the end, it was also known to the European Commission in 2011. It was also known in the Netherlands by TNO, it turns out if you can decipher the cryptic description. Does the VVD think, with GroenLinks, that we should take these kinds of signals more seriously in Europe too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u130	I hear Mrs Van Tongeren say something about what the VVD would think. I note that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance itself often calls into question reports from the RIVM. The question then is whether the modeling is correct. Apart from that, it starts with meeting things and being able to maintain them. I think that's the most important thing in this file. It is not a question of who brought this issue forward; it is not a question of whether it was the American regulator, a nature organisation or another organisation. At the heart of the matter is whether we have arranged with each other that, if we have agreed on, for example, emissions and that agreements are not met by one party, we can then deal with that party. We have to note that this has not happened and that this has probably not been possible on the basis of the way in which we are operating today. That is why two things are being put on the agenda. Firstly, on a new test method, so that you can see whether the practice and the test results are much more together. We know from experience with the truck industry that this can be done. Secondly, we are committed to the following. If it turns out that the agreements are not being complied with and that the party concerned does not have a valid explanation for them, then the party with the buttocks will have to pay the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u131	I am surprised at this response from the VVD. The VVD is the party of hard on crime. Now it's a company that admits that it deliberately cheated, but now I hear from the VVD in so many words saying: was it all to measure? Was it clear? Does the VVD with GroenLinks believe that a company that knowingly frauds should simply be prosecuted before the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u132	I didn't say that at all. Absolutely not. My first point was that when people go wrong, we should be able to punish those people. My observation was that this has not been done so far, probably also because of the current package. But perhaps the leaders will be able to tell us more about this in the near future; hence my question as to whether we can get through with the present package. If it turns out that people are cheating, can we actually find that stick and hit it with it? That stick wasn't there until now. This can be said very naïvely, and we can see this together. That was actually the story in Mr Madlener's contribution, but we have to note that no action has been taken. My question is whether, with the package now before us, we can act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u133	My last short question is this. In 2006, this matter was already raised by a European Environment Group. So we could have acted if we had taken this environmental group seriously in 2006. In 2011, the European Commission's Joint Research Centre came up with this. In 2013, there was a follow-up study that identified VW-diesel vehicles as among those with large discretions. We are not doing anything about it, rather than not being able to act. Does the VVD agree with me that we should take these signals more seriously and we should just prosecute companies if they fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u134	Signs of fraud must be taken seriously, and fraud must be prosecuted. That is what is happening in this case. The discussion is about the deliberate use of manipulation tools in software and the fraud with them. In America it has started to roll and in Europe it has not emerged as such, because two discussions are being joined together. I understand, because we also have the discussion between the different emissions, both in practice and in the test results. Therefore, it is important to introduce new test methods. With this you can make very clear what a car does in practice on the road. These methods make it clear whether there is a difference in emissions and, if so, there must be a good explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u135	At the beginning of Mrs Visser's speech I thought: what an open door. But perhaps the question of whether we have enough is a rhetorical question, because in the answer to Mrs Van Tongeren's question Mrs Visser already indicated that we obviously do not have enough. We don't have enough. One of the reasons for this is that we have a system in which the national type-approval authority is the only one that can do anything at national level. So the German type-approval authority can only do something in Germany, while these cars run throughout the European Union. The same applies to the Bulgarian or Spanish type-approval authorities. Does Mrs Visser agree with D66 that we need something more than the system under which one country grants the approval, with which the rest in fact cannot do anything more? In the technical briefing, the Secretary of State for Finance sighed that he would, but that he couldn't do anything with it. We will need a little more at European level to get over the system of only one Member State which approves something, and the rest will not be able to change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u136	That's back-to-back business. As far as I'm concerned, we'll start at the front. That is why I mentioned the example of the pre-filled declaration. It starts with you making a deal with each other that you will be dealt with if you fail to comply with the agreements. This means that you need tools to be able to maintain. We can talk for a long time about all kinds of views about national or international type-approval authorities, but as long as we haven't arranged that with each other in the front, we're mopping with the crane open at the back. That is exactly why we are saying the following. Make sure it's arranged out front. Make sure you're clear about the appointments you make. Go check on that, too. Make sure you can actually enforce if people, in this case the car manufacturers, do not keep the agreements. That's incredibly effective. That's a tremendous incentive. Then the market really is going to think twice before it goes into rash action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u137	Mrs Visser now pretends to be putting something very revolutionary down, but we had agreements. That was cheating. The problem with the system is that you can only do something in the country where the type-approval was granted. We have clear agreements and everyone already felt that consequences should be banned, except for the VVD. I have a whole stack of motions here that we have all tried to do something about towards Volkswagen. Let me mention just one thing: exclude them from the next public procurement, for example. That's what the VVD was against. There was a motion to run the test faster. That's what the VVD was against. The VVD was against all sorts of motions. Now the solution is: we must maintain. Yes, of course we must maintain! We should have done that before. What is the new solution of the VVD? What does she really want to do differently? I really do not see the difference, unless she believes that all Member States should be able to maintain immediately and not just the country where type approval was granted. In order to do so, we need to adapt the European system. I wonder if that's the VVD's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u138	No. I'm gonna go back. Installing software to manipulate was not known in Europe. That's exactly why you need to make that criminal right now. Then you have to make sure that you can maintain that. You can't maintain that right now. That is why we say the following. Make sure you can actually maintain when business does wrong to the practical situation. Make sure you give the enforcement tools as well. I have a great deal of faith in the Dutch admissions authority, the RDW. The registration record and the admission do the RDW well. I see no reason to hand that over to Europe. I see that Mrs Van Veldhoven wishes to ask me a further question, but first I would like to say this. This has come to light in America because it turned out that Volkswagen could not explain why the test results and the practical results did not match. The VVD makes the following proposal. Take a look at comply or explain in all your enforcement tools, including in financial legislation, which you put in front. When you make appointments with someone you say: we assume that you act in good faith and show that you do; if it turns out that you don't have a good explanation and it didn't go well, you just get a punishment. As far as we are concerned, that may be quite a punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u139	Let me remind you of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u140	Short questions and short answers, please, because the answers and questions are getting longer and longer. Mrs Van Veldhoven is now going to ask her question if you are both committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u141	I think that Mrs Visser still needs to get into the basis of this dossier. There is a regulation. It works directly. Article 5.2 of that Regulation states that "The use of manipulation tools that reduce the efficiency of emission control systems shall be prohibited'. So that's already illegal. Since there is a ban, you could do something with it if you want it, unless we believe that it can only be done under this system in Germany if the car has been inspected in Germany. Then you're gonna have to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u142	No. Mrs Van Veldhoven must continue to read, because there are a number of exceptions. That's exactly the whole story. It's forbidden, unless. And that "unless" is very well defined. It is precisely on these "unless" that car manufacturers have been calling in the last few years to explain why they cannot meet this challenge. That is exactly why we say that you should settle this with each other in Europe. You have to make it clear that you're taking responsibility for the car manufacturers and telling them that they just have to meet this and that they have to have a damn good reason if they can't meet that. The reason it is bad for the engine is not enough for us, because that is the legitimacy that has always been given in Europe. In America it is stated: you can't explain it. You can also not explain that it is bad for the engine. That's why you're trespassing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u143	It just says it's forbidden. There is fraud here. We can only deal with this in Europe in the country where the car was inspected. That's gotta be off the table, isn't it? Otherwise, you will always depend on the willingness of people in that country to deal with it. TNO's Secretary of State for Finance has known for years that something was grossly wrong, because emissions were up to 1,000% higher than we have all determined together. He said he couldn't do anything with it, because it was in Germany. That is the essence of what we need to change!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u144	Mrs Van Veldhoven does not want to listen to the second part of my reply. It is indeed forbidden, but there is also a "unless." That "unless" is not a criminal offence. That "unless" also does not oblige car manufacturers to show what they have done about it. The latter is exactly what the VVD proposes. You have to put the burden of proof with the car manufacturer when it comes to the "unless," as you have in financial legislation with comply or explain. It is, in fact, just like with the pre-filled declaration: I say that I have done everything in accordance with the conditions. You're taking responsibility for the car manufacturers. They must be able to prove it. That's different than it is now. You will not solve this by saying that we are going to do it in a different way with the admission authorities. That's back-to-back running things while you're trying to get it done in front, in a more appropriate way, with better enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u145	I am very curious to see how the VVD looks at the internal market. If you find that you can't stop cars from being imported when they're approved in Germany, you just have to let them in in the other European countries. How does the VVD want to keep the internal market in order? We're being set up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u146	This can be done by making clear agreements with each other, both on the standards and on the way you're going to do the test and on how you're going to maintain it. As far as we are concerned, this can be done by national Member States and does not need to be regulated in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u147	There are very clear agreements, only the software is manipulated. How's the VVD gonna stop this? I didn't hear that from this story. The internal market is under pressure, which is running away. I can't imagine the VVD letting this happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u148	I do not understand what Mr Geurts means by 'the internal market is running away'. The point is that you make agreements with each other and you're gonna keep them. You can do that as a national Member State. You just have to make sure that the procedures are prescribed. We've had this test since 1972. Of course, some things have changed over time. If I compare the car from 1972 to today's car, fortunately the car has gotten a lot better, both in terms of technology and in terms of emissions. However, this has not been adjusted for the basis of the test. We didn't even prescribe exactly how to do it. You can make a big move with that. You can strengthen the internal market by requiring clarity for both the way of testing and the way of enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u149	There were no seat belts in a '72 car, that's a difference. Even though TNO turns on her head and signals everything: cars that have been approved in other countries, but which are not good, can simply enter the Netherlands. Is that what the VVD wants? This is disrupting the internal market and allowing any country to be set up without any action being taken against it. Is this what the VVD wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u150	We have agreed on standards with each other. We have also made them in the European Commission. I assume that the car manufacturers will meet those standards, including the conformity factor. If not, there will be an action. This doesn't mean I'm gonna dup consumers by saying that we're gonna stop importing and that people with that car aren't gonna get on the road anymore. The consumer can't help it. You have to deal with the car manufacturer. You have to make sure that the car manufacturer can also be dealt with with with enforcement. This is our question now. Can we do this in a sufficient way? We are not in favour of dipping the consumer. We have agreed standards for air quality in the Netherlands. Luckily, we're gonna get it, too, even with what's happened now. There is no reason for us to say that these cars should be banned immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u151	I have not at any time insinuated that I want to stop those cars, as Mrs Visser says. I am concerned that we now have no rules against this. What does the VVD do about it? I get a long answer, but not to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u152	Mrs Visser, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u153	I think the VVD has just laid down a very clear starting point: you have to keep agreements, if you do not then you have to be dealt with. The question is whether this regulation offers sufficient possibilities or whether it requires a further step. I'd like to hear that from the directors here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u154	The VVD says that consumers should have no disadvantage in the fact that these car manufacturers have cheated. Does the VVD think that new cars that may still contain fraud software should be sold in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u155	There is no evidence so far that the fraud software is also in other cars. I am certainly not aware of this, but perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren is familiar with it. Action has also been taken to recall those cars for adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u156	Mrs Visser is not answering my question. I mean new cars that haven't reached the consumer yet. I share Mrs Visser's view that it would be very bad for the consumer if he or she were suddenly not allowed to drive that car. I'm dealing with new cars that are still to be sold with fraud software. That will be mainly Volkswagen, but perhaps it is also about other cars. Should they be sold in the Netherlands or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u157	There are assumptions in there that I can't share. I'm assuming there are no more cars with shuffle software. Otherwise the manufacturers will simply be prosecuted. Then they're trespassing. It's as simple as that. This is a kind of as-dan speculation: apparently Mrs Van Tongeren does have information. They will then have to report to the competent authorities which will have to do so. You don't have to do it, it can't be in there, and you just have to stick to the deal. If you don't, you're gonna get dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u158	A short answer, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u159	So the VVD would support GroenLinks' call: cars that we know have fraudulent software in them should not be sold in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u160	But, Mr President, we assume that they are no longer there; they simply cannot be there. Period. If they are there, it just needs to be dealt with. I can repeat my answer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u161	No, I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u162	Apparently, Mrs. Van Tongeren has other information. That's what I like to hear. She must report them to the competent authorities. They can do their job. Here in the political debate, I think we have given the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u163	Mrs Visser continues her speech, because we are repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u164	The key question of this debate is as follows: do the measures that are being taken and the proposals that are now before us in Europe provide sufficient guidance to enable us to act effectively in the event of fraud or manipulation? If not, what will be the stakes and how can it be achieved? This exercise has been carried out in the truck industry in recent years. There is now the Euro 6 standard, and practical emissions as well as test emissions are close to each other. It's possible; the techniques are there. What does it take to install those techniques? And in what time is it feasible and affordable? That remains an explicit starting point in the turnaround. My colleagues have already asked a number of questions about the RDW. We know that the RDW has carried out a number of tests over the past period, precisely following signals about vehicles that have been admitted. What is the state of play? The same applies to the discussion on CO. After all, we have had our taxation based on CO in recent years. In his last reply, the Secretary of State for Finance stated that they were up to 400 cars. Some parties have in the past heard all kinds of pleas for an additional 1 billion to the track based on 400 cars. What's the status? How many cars are we talking about? Does that still affect you? The debate on NO emissions is also taking place. Why do people choose a diesel car? Because they need that car for work, because a diesel car is economical, reliable and takes them from A to B. In the past and again today I have heard arguments as if the car and especially the diesel car were wrong. I am convinced that emissions can go down and that the innovations will come. It has to be done. We must give time to do so, but we must also offer the stick very clearly: if one is in violation, we must actually strike. This also means that we make clear agreements with the car manufacturers and that we maintain them if they are in breach. Above all, we must ensure that consumers can simply continue to drive their cars and not be overwhelmed by all kinds of calls to ban petrol cars and/or diesel cars. I think that, above all, and not just this debate on Volkswagen fraud, is a source of concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u165	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting so that everyone can eat and the rulers can prepare their answers. The Secretary of State for Finance will be the first to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u166	Mr. Chairman. What a nice subject. I shall begin with questions relating to taxation and the most frequently asked question. Mrs van Tongeren, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts and Mrs Visser have put this question on the tax aspects of CO emissions that may not be knocked out. No deviating CO emissions have yet been identified, but the German RDW, the KBA, is investigating it. This can be up to 400 cars for the Netherlands, but the importer thinks there are far fewer. We will have the results very soon, but not yet. The motorist is certainly not being called upon to do so, I say to two of the questioners. It is not going to be the motorist who, if there is to be paid, will pay something of it; it is Volkswagen who has promised compensation. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether I had already found a destination for those billions. It's a maximum of 1 or 2 grams, right now. So this is a very limited amount per car. I have great difficulty in making this an amount higher than €50,000 at the bpm; we don't have one Tesla for that yet. To get above that amount in the add-up, I have to make a lot of effort again. That would go on for a few years. All in all, the Tesla's that you can buy just fit here in the middle square. The amounts involved are very limited. As soon as we know, I'll let you know what we're gonna do with that. Mr Smaling added another question. He asked whether the different NO emissions, where they are higher percentages, could also be tax refunds or be outside my sphere of interest. Well, that's in the center of my interest; it just has nothing to do with taxation. So there is no cost involved. There is a common interest, but unlike that, I do not have much to offer Mr Smaling. Mrs Dik-Faber asks whether it is desirable to abolish the exemption from police cars. Of course, that has to do with the break-even point that comes from such a tender. We can tell a very long story about that, but the motion for a resolution was rejected a few hours ago. So perhaps we do not need to hold a very big debate on this. Mr Geurts is concerned about the new diesels versus the oldtimers. If I understood his argument correctly, he said: new diesels are actually just as dirty as oldtimers, but oldtimers pay more taxes. The opposite is, of course, the case. Everything, but also everything, indicates that new diesels are much cleaner oldtimers, and it is for a fact that oldtimers owners pay much less tax than owners of new diesels. So I guess it's the other way around. Mrs Van Tongeren was sad about the end of the car debate, which led to the vote this afternoon. We are not going to repeat the debate, but she is actually asking me some sort of holistic explanation of how it could have come to this. I would say: it is also a fact that according to the Organisation PRC, according to TNO, according to the OECD, according to the General Court and according to the CPB of about zero effect, the Dutch headline on EU resource policy is again a fact. We've put a lot of funding into it, but it hasn't helped the climate in any way. I would like to say to Mrs van Tongeren very strongly that I am not doing so to make her even more saddened by the fact that, with five motions and amendments, she has called for even more subsidies to be placed in those cars. They all lead to the same effect, namely zero effect. But to try to make her less sad in the end, I do say that the Netherlands is committed to source policy. This is the most effective and also very efficient way of climate policy, which means that emissions will fall from 107 grams per kilometer to 96 grams per kilometer during the period of the letter. I think I've answered all the questions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u167	Let us indeed not repeat the debate on the Autobrief, because I still cannot get an answer to my actual observation that TNO has also said that the car park is getting dirtier compared to the basic path. There is an approved Van Tongeren/Van Veldhoven motion for a study on the equalisation of emission requirements between diesel and petrol vehicles. I would like to know from the Secretary of State for Finance why we treat diesel and petrol vehicles differently in terms of excise duties. Why are we even doing that? Why not just say that the same excise duty should also be levied on the same car of the same size and the same litre of fuel?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u168	Diesel, of course, has started its fuel cycle as a fuel for the freight sector. For economic reasons, a low excise duty was chosen at the time and a high vehicle tax was chosen to compensate for this. That's where we take the break-even point. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u169	Of course, I have also read how that happened, but if something historical has arisen, then of course there will also be a moment when you are going to look at it again. The motion adopted calls on the government to find out what the consequences of equalization are. The Chamber would be involved in the investigation. Does the State Secretary of Finance know anything about that? Is that being watched? What's gonna happen if we make it even?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u170	I do not know whether I should implement a motion which was only voted on a few hours ago. The motions that are there are being seriously considered. However, I have not yet started any implementation and I cannot give an answer to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u171	It's a motion from October 2015, so the government has had some time to puzzle how it wants to proceed. However, I am also satisfied with a letter which will explain how this motion will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u172	I will look at the motion and I will tell Mrs Van Tongeren how I think we should deal with it. I understand the motion has been there since October 2015, but it's certainly not under my pillow. I thank Mrs Van Tongeren for the reminder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u173	On 10 March 2016, TNO reported that diesels emit three to five times more than in the test. This was not only about Volkswagen, such as the Passat CC, but also about Mercedes, Opel Zafira, Audi and BMW. So it was a lot of cars, which in practice emit much more than they did on the test track. When TNO made earlier calls to the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State apparently said that he had no leads to do anything with it. What point would the Secretary of State have liked to have at the time, so that he could have done something with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u174	In the event of three times as high CO emissions, these cars would suddenly start driving one in four. So this has to be either NO or fine dust.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u175	It's about NO.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u176	It has nothing to do with taxation. We don't tax NO or fine dust. We'll do it another way. We don't charge it, but we set a maximum, which is the same for every vehicle. There's a maximum you have to meet, and that's it. That has nothing to do with taxation. I have nothing to do with that, no matter how much I care about the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u177	I understand that, but we have rules for that in the Netherlands. There's a maximum, as the Secretary of State himself says. If a research institute like TNO knocks on the door at the Ministry of Finance and says it goes far beyond the values that have been agreed, the Secretary of State may not have a hook to do something with it. So I wonder which hook he'd like to have. I know this isn't about taxation as we've agreed, but I'm still curious about how to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u178	The Ministry of Finance is turned to when there is something about the state treasury, the tax rules or the financial markets. This doesn't have much to do with the Ministry. I believe that the question of conformity in the field of NO and fine dust has just been asked by my colleagues, if I am not mistaken, several times. We therefore hope to receive competent answers in response to Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u179	I did indeed ask what possibilities there are in the procurement of police cars to ensure that the differences between diesel and other types are reduced so that a level playing field is created. The Secretary of State said that a motion on this matter was rejected this afternoon. As I recall, this motion on the special arrangements in car taxes for various sectors was concerned. For example, it was also about the taxi industry. Now we're really talking about the police, a government service. Can the Secretary of State imagine that we are taking a step towards the police, because we think it is very important that the government sets a good example for sustainable purchasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u180	Now all of a sudden we're talking about purchasing policy. It fell underneath. There are several sectors that are opposed to the government, which are either semi-public or completely public. That's what the motion was about. Then it goes from waste operations to colt-suckers; I call the latter for the insiders. There are all kinds of arrangements for that. We didn't find a majority to revise that. It would then have to be a different form of financing combined with a different taxation. I did not want to reopen that debate, because we have had that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u181	I think it is very important that the debate on sustainable public procurement continues. There is a regular debate, including with the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment, on the role of the government as a model. Parliamentary motions have also been adopted calling on the government to take environmental and public health into account in its procurement policy. We do not have to look at all sectors, but I would think it a very good step if we looked at how we could create conditions for the contracting authority to buy in sustainably.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u182	I don't hear a question, but I do hear a heart's desire.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u183	I can see a questioning look. Can I then try to respond in the spirit of Mrs Dik-Faber's interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u184	I'm sure you can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u185	It's a thin answer, though. I do not know to what extent environmental aspects have been or have not been taken into account in this particular procurement. I know the cabinet speaks with one voice, but I always say it comes from different heads. So I do not know this and I do not think that this is the subject of debate. So I cannot answer this question any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u186	Thank you very much. In doing so, Secretary of State Wiebes has answered the questions that lie in his policy area. We can now grant him a demission for this evening. I wish him a joyful evening elsewhere. I would now like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u187	Das war einmal, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u188	I'm not quite up to date. Excuse me. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u189	I can imagine that also lingers in the minds of some people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u190	Your past haunts you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u191	It's not forgotten, and it's a good thing it is. Mr. Chairman. I give the answers to the questions put by the Chamber in three blocks. First of all, I have an extensive block that deals with the following questions: what exactly is going on with air quality and what did we know? Some also used the words "why did they act so late?" That question has been raised by all Members of the European Parliament quite decisively. In the second block I will address the questions about fuel consumption and CO. Then I have the infamous little third block called "other." Cars must be as clean as car manufacturers in their glossies promise. For many years, the Netherlands has played a leading role in Europe. This is a role that the Netherlands will have to continue to play in the coming years. It is known that TNO has been measuring the actual emissions of cars on behalf of the Ministry for quite some time. As a result, we know that the Court has always been informed that the actual emissions of nitrogen oxide from diesel cars are in practice higher than on paper. TNO's measurement data are used to update the RIVM calculation models. The Chamber has always taken a critical look at whether good measurement data have been taken into account in the calculation of air quality. Yesterday, following earlier questions from Mrs Van Tongeren, I sent a comprehensive letter with a study by TNO to the Chamber to elaborate further on this. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about air quality. We have talked about this many times. We have a system of measuring on the one hand and calculating on the other. For many years now, our policy has been based on practical emissions. RIVM has a very advanced model to calculate air quality. In practice, it's always measured. In fact, it could be said that this is some kind of reallife check or the assumptions are correct. If necessary, the model will be adjusted. It is up to RIVM, an independent institute, to determine how many measuring points it needs and where it measures. For example, if you drive faster than 120 km/h, RIVM measures this not only in the Netherlands, but also in Germany. The RIVM should also consider where all these measuring points should be located and whether the model is sufficiently validated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u192	This gives Mrs Van Tongeren cause for her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u193	This is indeed a discussion we have been having for some time. I thank the Secretary of State for the letter and the underlying information. My main question is why that model of measurement cannot be released. We have all called for a more transparent government. That model of measurement has been wobbled because others, to whom I too belong, say: we cannot and would like to see it, but we cannot judge it. We then hear from the Secretary of State: yes, we take all this neatly. Where we could see something, is at the only place where 130 km/h is driven and that is on the highway A2 near Breukelen. There you can see that emissions have increased since they were allowed to drive 130 km/h. But other than that, you have a black box. Would it be possible to make that model, if necessary limited, accessible to people who have knowledge of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u194	I'm afraid to put it that way. The WOB requests are literally flying to our ears. Today we can set up almost an entire ministerial department for this purpose. But that's another discussion. I will deal with this specific point in the second period. It may also be dealt with by lawyers. I can't estimate it right now. I do have, again yesterday, to your specific question as to whether there is a real measurement above 120 and 130, that is indeed the case. This takes place partly outside our country on the motorways where one goes up to 150. I think that's relevant information. From the thought that RIVM is independent and does its job well, I assumed that it is true and I also assume that it is true. In fact, Mrs Van Tongeren is also in the lead, because as soon as there is a hint in a discussion that RIVM is critical about something, she is right at the front of the interrupting microphone to rely on that data. I think that's fine, but we can't shop there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u195	A follow-up question from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u196	There's a difference between what a car emits and that you could indeed determine in Germany too, and the measurement of how dirty the air is in a place in the Netherlands. As the Secretary of State is well aware, the pollution does not come from the car alone. In any case, I want to make sure that there is no financial pressure on RIVM not to extend the measuring network if it wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u197	Again, that's RIVM. It determines how it sets up the measuring points. That's not food for the department. The RIVM really has to do that on its own. To the question I can answer that there is no financial pressure from us to do it exactly this way. That's the trade-off that RIVM makes. On the second point, I will come back with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u198	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u199	Mr. Chairman. These excessively high emissions of diesel cars have indeed been raised by the Netherlands in Brussels, also because we cannot close our borders, as Mr Smaling said. We are dealing with this and will have to do so in Brussels. From the department, well before the software fraud at Volkswagen came to light, TNO has already asked, on the basis of the differences between practice and theory, which type of research you can do in order to obtain evidence in one way or another as to whether something is going on. On this basis, TNO stated that its adoption within the current European legislation is very difficult and will not lead to a conviction. Mrs Visser referred to this as well. What would at most be at issue is that abnormal behaviour of the emission treatment could be established. Such a finding is not sufficient to force a breakthrough on the file. I'll explain a little more about it later. Because it was difficult to find a tuxedo gun through such an investigation, we have been working for a new test procedure to measure, as we consider important, cars on the road and not only in the laboratory. In May last year this resulted in a decision on the RDE test procedure. RDE stands for Real Driving Emissions, so emissions at driving conditions on the road. On 12 February 2016, the Council of the European Union agreed to the introduction period and emission limits of the RDE test procedure. The Netherlands was the only country that voted against. We felt that it could be faster and that it needed to be stricter. With this we found ourselves in good company, because the Chamber expressed this by means of the motion Van Veldhoven/Dik-Faber. Unfortunately, we have not received sufficient support for this position within Europe, and this has been euphemistically expressed. This means that the RDE test procedure will be phased in from 1 September 2017. Indeed, it will take until 2021. Then all the new cars that come on the market, on the road, will be almost as clean as on paper, in that shiny glossy. I also find it disappointing that it takes so long, I say frankly. At the same time, we must realise that we are taking a step in the right direction. Better a test procedure that starts at some point in practice than nothing. That also threatened to become a European decision. At the moment modern diesel cars are still 500% to 600% above the standard. In a few years' time, that overrun will have to be reduced to 110%. In my belief, which I share with an important part of the Chamber, the transition to cleaner diesel cars and to the super-clean electric car or the hydrogen car is just what you love an irreversible process. Our commitment is therefore to step up the pace of this transition, because it will benefit all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u200	Our rulers cannot set the course in Brussels on their own, that is a fact. This also applies to other countries and other areas. In this way, everyone must accept that things in Europe are sometimes just different from what we would like to see. According to Europe, it is only in 2021 that the glossies are fully compliant, but fortunately in the Netherlands we have TNO, which measures everything and knows everything, as the Secretary of State said. We can then ensure that the Dutch consumer is no longer deceived and is given honest information about what cars really emit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u201	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven on that alone. In a moment, I will have something about what you can do about transparency for consumers. Within the European Union, we are dealing with the Commission. We can't go on every front. I think that Mrs Van Veldhoven, as one of the MPs who specialises in European law, knows that this is unfortunately also the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u202	A follow-up question from Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u203	I am waiting for the Secretary of State to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u204	You may suspend them in this period. There is also an interruption by Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u205	It fits in with this. I'd like to know if Volkswagen has broken any laws with this scam software. The State Secretary's reply shows roughly that this is not the case on the basis of current legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u206	No, that's the case. I'll explain so extensively why they broke the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u207	This too is half an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u208	First of all, let me explain what part of European regulation leaves room for manoeuvre. European legislation is in itself perfectly clear. Fraud is prohibited. With a good word there is a ban on so-called manipulation instruments, defeat devices, in English. The effectiveness of these emission control systems should therefore not be manipulated, thereby increasing emissions. But there is also a very large BUT in European legislation, with capital letters. Such manipulation is legal when it is necessary to protect the engine from damage or accidents or to ensure the safe operation of the vehicle. TNO has previously established that emission control systems function well during the type-approval test in the laboratory, but are partially disabled under practical conditions. What's going on? Car manufacturers rely massively on this provision in European legislation. They say that's what they do to protect the engine. In this way, European legislation does not provide a sufficient basis for making it clear that the car manufacturer is in breach. I also wrote that in the third summary letter on diesel fraud. TNO indicated that further investigation could at most establish abnormal behaviour of the emission control system. That didn't provide enough ground, evidence, if you like, to successfully reach a conviction. Mr Madlener and Mr Hoogland asked what happened at Volkswagen. It has been noted that, in addition to the "legal" way, illegal manipulation has been used. This concerned the software that recognizes that the car is being subjected to an official test in the laboratory. It is clear that this is forbidden. That last manipulation will be removed from Volkswagen's recall. This has not solved the problem of high emissions on the road, because for that we will really have to deal with it with the Chamber: the sooner the better we go to a new RDE test procedure, which also measures emissions on the road. Did Volkswagen break the law? Yes, the European Euro 5/6 regulation prohibits fraud software. That is what the German authorities have established, and that is what Minister Dobrindt has told us. Soon he will be presenting the results of the German Committee of Inquiry. Perhaps the Minister will say something about that. Then more details will be known and we can inform the Chamber further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u209	This was mainly a mutual debate. The Secretary of State started by saying: we don't have a tuxedo gun. I think she's about to come to the question of whether we can perform with that. That is relevant to this discussion. On the one hand, we have Volkswagen's fraud and its criminal, civil or other approach. On the other hand, there is the difference between the practice and the test results. The real question now is whether we can tackle both in this way. Can we deal adequately with the proposals now before us or not? I think it's important to make a statement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u210	Not to get rid of it easily, but the Minister is going to say something about it, because she will, in part, raise it in the Transport Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u211	Mrs Visser, you may keep the other half of the interruption until then, but you may also ask a follow-up question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u212	Perhaps the Secretary of State could explain how she said her words about a tuxedo gun, I repeat, which was simply meant in relation to the difference between the practice and the test situation, as well as to the Volkswagen fraud. Those are two different situations where two different things play.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u213	Exactly. That's what I meant to say. In general, it was difficult for TNO, for example, and probably also for others, to prove that there was cheating on the basis of the broad European regulations. At Volkswagen, there's something else going on. That is where we have added something that cannot be proved. That's fraud, and that's what's going on here. It's important to say that. For example, Mr Hoogland referred to Opel and asked what was going on there with the replacement of the software. There is no secret replacement of software by Opel. This has been confirmed by the KBA, the German RDW. We have already sent this to the Chamber in writing. Sometimes car manufacturers use European regulations in their hands, so I would like to say a few words about 'protecting', but I hope that their engine will be clear. That's different than putting something in the car that shuts it down when it's tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u214	Mrs Visser, you would like to make a second interruption to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u215	The answer to my first question referred to the Minister. So I am using this as the second part of my interruption to the Secretary of State, if you will allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u216	I think you've already asked a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u217	In reply to the first question, it was said that the Minister was going to answer it. Then I asked very specifically. However, I would like to ask for the answer that has just been given. The Secretary of State has just indicated that no action could be taken on the basis of current EU legislation if there was a difference in emissions between practice and test results. Thus, even if this were to be observed, Article 5 did not actually allow action to be taken because the exceptions in the article could be invoked. So it couldn't be proven. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u218	Yeah, that's right. That was the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u219	I'm just trying to sum it up for myself. Is the Secretary of State now saying that Volkswagen relies on the fact that his cars have higher emissions in order to protect the engine? That's a little bit of what I hear. Then I'll come to my question. Cars from other car brands also have very high emissions, as we have noted. These brands say they don't manipulate their software on that. I am therefore very curious to know what that really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u220	So that could be different. Part of this is also being investigated. The point is that car manufacturers sometimes rely on the fact that there is scope in the regulation, and that there is also a provision to protect their engine. This means that they will in practice achieve higher emissions. This is also undesirable, but not in advance in breach of European legislation. In the Volkswagen case, it was a little different. In the end, the burden of proof was found, namely adding something. That's manipulation, and that's illegal. That does not make things any less complicated, but that is what I am saying so far,'so far', because I think that should also be clear about the state of affairs. This European regulation therefore offers scope for interpretation. The Minister will look further at the question of what the perspective of action is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u221	Well, I guess I've got a point. Consumers are now faced with a recovery action of, in this case, one car brand. How can they assume that the driving characteristics of a car are not changed at all by the fact that the software is being changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u222	The Minister will also comment on this. It also examines the precise tests. That's more the part that's about to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u223	Mr President, neither have I placed this second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u224	This was your second interruption. At least, it was a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u225	I think we are faced with the problem that the willingness to have a debate on it together soon runs into a practical frontier. There are certain technical issues that we just really need to clear up, so I'm just gonna give you a prewarning. Article 5 of that regulation actually says two things. Paragraph 1 states that the vehicle must comply with this Regulation and the implementing measures under normal conditions of use. In other words, you can do anything, but a vehicle has to comply with this under normal circumstances. So you can't manipulate emission control. That's illegal unless it's necessary to protect that car. What are we gonna get in the new situation? If a car then drives up the Brennerpass, a nice concrete example that was just given to me by the PvdA, then the engine of that car will get warmer and if some cold air is added, it will do something with the emissions. So that wasn't in the tests. So the problem is, in fact, that in the test you were allowed to disable this kind of thing. Did we fix that up in the new tests later? Otherwise, we can do what we want, but we will continue to keep the tension in this regulation and so you will continue to run into the same problem with your enforcement. If it is still the case in the test on the roller bench that you do not have to take those emissions, we will have the same problem. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Is it also necessary to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u226	This is no longer possible under the new RDE test. What has been done is to deactivate systems to make the exhaust gases cleaner if, for example, the temperature falls. This was allowed by European legislation. This is no longer possible under the new RDE test. Then those cars will also have to be cleaner at a lower temperature.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u227	It is said on all sides that there is also a roller bench test. It'll be next to the Real Driving Emissions test. If you are still allowed to assemble your car in a different way from the Real Driving Emissions test, you always keep a difference between that. Then it remains the question whether all situations are really included in this Real Driving Emissions test. Otherwise, you will just keep keeping a difference with the emissions in practice. Then those car manufacturers will continue to rely on this regulation, with the tension between paragraph 1, which states that a car must comply with the normal driving situation and paragraph 2 which leaves some room to protect your engine. So you have to seal it in those tests, or you won't solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u228	It's en-and. With regard to what we could do to round the circle on this point, including in the area of regulation, the Minister will come forward with a proposal to the Chamber. Mr Smaling and Mrs Dik-Faber have asked whether we can see opportunities to strengthen the conformity factor by 2021. Commissioner Bienkowska has indicated that she wants to further reduce that conformity factor. This obviously depends on the development of the mobile test equipment. As you are used to me, I will continue to work for further tightening up. I will also support the Commissioner in this, as she will undoubtedly need it very much. Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned a few motions which she wished to include in an implementation agenda. The first motion dealt with the state of alignment of emission requirements for petrol and diesel. In the second survey letter of 27 November last year, we sent the Chamber a study plan. We have indicated that the research results will be known for the summer and that the Chamber will then be able to look forward to them. I can report that the investigation is on schedule. Mrs Van Tongeren also asked about the implementation of the motion calling for a new ban on the removal of the soot filter. That is, by the way, a justified point. It does not just require a motion for a resolution, because this is very important. In recent months, the Ministry, together with the RDW, has looked at the possibility of a new ban. There are good opportunities. They are still being tested, also in terms of feasibility, because that is important. I will also report to the Chamber before the summer recess on this. Mr Smaling asked whether emissions could also be monitored at the apk. That is possible, just not for nitrogen oxide (NO) but for particulate matter. That's another substance than the substance we're talking about with the fraud. I told you, we're doing a soot filter test in the cock. As has already been said, a letter will be sent to the Chamber. I come to the subject of fuel consumption and CO. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked if there could be a practical test for fuel consumption, i.e. for CO emissions. Mr Smaling also wanted to know the difference between the practice and the laboratory. The difference between the roller bench test and practice has long been known, even here, and is undesirable. In fact, the European Union recognised that a long time ago. In 2017, there will be a new test procedure, the WLTP. The hole will be smaller, but it will never completely disappear. That is just a little more complicated with CO, I have been told, because the actual consumption depends on many factors. Think about the weather, geography and driving behaviour of the driver. No practical test is foreseen, but we will have to keep a close eye on the gap between WLTP and practice. Well, that's important. I come to the issue of public access, which Mrs Van Veldhoven has spoken about. I'm talking about disclosure of information in the showroom. I think I can see with Mrs Van Veldhoven that transparency is our friend here too. That's how I'd like to treat it. Indeed, consumers must be able to make informed choices. Fuel consumption data are already available to consumers. Emissions in grams per kilometre are also always mentioned. We will be calling in Brussels for data from the RDE test to be made public. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked for my commitment to a new vehicle standard for CO. I very much agree with her that it is essential. We are committed to the rapid adoption by the Commission of new standards for 2025 and 2030. These standards should make the transition to zero emission vehicles already deployed irreversible. That is also why I am committed to strict standards, because in the end, of course, you will achieve that transition the fastest through the European line. The Chamber has debated this before. That European line is the route to making real pace. By the way, the Dutch commitment is based on a common position that I think is very nice from the ANWB, the BOVAG and Nature & Environment. Probably our commitment is the strictest in Europe. The subject will also be on the agenda of the Informal Environment Council. That is where we will map the European playing field. I come to a number of other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u229	First, there is a need for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u230	But what is the real stake? The Secretary of State states that the Netherlands is the most ambitious. It also indicates that there is a joint proposal. Last week we had the car letter debate. The Secretary of State for Finance said that we are aiming for 75 kilograms and that this is also the commitment within Europe. Would the Secretary of State like to go into that further? What exactly is the Dutch commitment to this dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u231	I believe that we have expressed this in previous letters to the Chamber. Of course, we always want to reduce emissions further. That is also our natural commitment; Mrs Visser understands that. We all benefit from this, because the moment we do it via that route, you don't get all entrances from the Netherlands. I think that is something that Mrs Visser's group particularly appeals to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u232	That is not yet an answer to the question. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that my group considers the debate on feasibility and affordability to be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u233	Of course, we always have an eye for that; that seems to me to be real.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u234	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u235	There will be a new test to measure CO emissions. I was told that the Secretary of State said that no practical test was foreseen. The Secretary of State nods, so that's right. I understand that there is one group of cars, and I will not mention the brand name, which carries out practical tests itself. Wouldn't it be an idea to spread that as a best practice and to ask the Dutch car importers to do the same, so that the public can finally learn about it? This one car group therefore tests in practice and publishes the results online, so that everyone can take note of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u236	I'm gonna have to think about that. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u237	We'll write it down as half an interruption. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u238	I need to check my list. I think I got through it pretty well. I come to the last block: the state of play regarding more attention to the environment and sustainability of vehicles Rich. A plan of action has been made for the purchase of sustainable vehicles by the Empire. The motion for a resolution on this matter is in progress. The state of play of the motion on attention to electric and self-driving cars in the top logistics sector has been called for. I believe that the Minister is going into the subject of self-driving and electric cars extensively, also because we have a nice happening before this week. I won't say anything else about that; that's up to the Minister. I will end with Mr Hoogland's question: why doesn't the D.A. conduct a criminal investigation and why doesn't the ACM investigate? In the answers to the written questions, I have to admit that it is a comprehensive set of questions, I have previously indicated that the prosecution has not become aware of any facts or circumstances that would allow a criminal investigation to be initiated. The same applies to the ACM. We have asked for it, but it is ultimately up to them, independent if they are, to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u239	This calls for an interruption by Mr Hoogland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u240	This raises a lot of questions. One of the questions is: is that because they are not competent at all, since type-approval is carried out in Germany? Or does it have to do with the substantive reasoning followed in response to my questions? I've asked far too many questions. I apologize for that. The answers state that the ACM is not investigating the fact that Volkswagen itself has publicly worn the fine rug. So that's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u241	In certain circumstances, it is also a different matter. Of course, there's a lot going on. As far as Volkswagen is concerned, the ACM has used the reasoning that Mr Hoogland is now putting forward in the debate. The Member State in which the approval has taken place often has the lead in criminal proceedings. That was also in the answers to the written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u242	That point is clear. Especially when it comes to the D.A.'s office, whether it's investigating or not, I'd like to be reluctant. But the argument of the ACM surprises me. The fact that it is not conducting an investigation is a choice made by the ACM itself, but the arguments must be valid in this respect. I can imagine that the government can't do much about that either, because the ACM works independently. But how does the answer come to the conclusion that no investigation is being carried out because the penitentiary is attracted to the image? If that's enough to shake off an ACM investigation, I think a number of companies are waking up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u243	I really have to leave the reasoning on behalf of the ACM. It is up to the ACM to make these kinds of choices and tell them why it does so. If the Chamber wants to discuss this with the ACM, then the Chamber also has the opportunity to invite it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u244	We understand that Volkswagen is currently the only manufacturer who has actually cheated, who has really broken the rules. That's right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u245	Yeah, we can say that based on what we know now. Of course, we cannot say that on the basis of what we will know in the future, because we do not know what we will know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u246	The Secretary of State said that Volkswagen's approach is to make up for the fraud software. So there's gonna be an update. Are all the people who drive a Volkswagen obliged to have that update posted? In what way does the Secretary of State consider that the damage to consumers should be compensated by Volkswagen? And how is the Secretary of State going to make sure that the damage is compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u247	Questions on this point will be answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u248	Mr. Chairman. The other leaders have already said that there are many elements to this issue. On the one hand, there is the software fraud committed by Volkswagen. I believe that this debate has been requested. What are you gonna do with this fraud? On the other hand, it has been found that there are differences between the results of practical tests and those of laboratory tests. These differences are also present in the tests of all kinds of other car brands. What are you supposed to do with that? You should not confuse these points; one is not equal to the other. There are also a number of proposals before the European Commission. So that's what we need to talk about right now. Is this enough to solve the issues together? Like the Chamber, I agree that the fraud that has taken place should never happen again. However, I also believe that the other car brands should be very close to the actual values when testing. That's how you know what you're getting. That's what I want to talk to the Chamber about. The Secretary of State has already said something about the practical tests in the future. That is what has already been agreed at European level. We're gonna work with the real driving emissions test. The Netherlands has been very strict in this regard. I've been on the Transport Council strict about this. Mrs Mansveld was that in the Environment Council and Mr Kamp was that in the Competitiveness Council. So we have a solution for the future, because that is the real issue. But what do we do in the meantime, and how? In my view, these are also important issues. I would now like to discuss a few things with the spokesmen. First of all, I would like to ask what this type-approval is like at the moment, and what the Commission's proposals are for improving it. A motion was also tabled in a previous debate, by Mr Hoogland and Mrs Van Veldhoven. It asks me to be less cautious, or at least not to impose some restrictions or reservations. In this respect, we may be talking a little bit along, because I think this is very important and I support the ambitions of the European Commission. I support her proposal to strengthen the independence of type-approval. My support is actually greater than the reservations. I have a few reservations, but I think it is particularly important that it should happen, but also that the measures are proportionate. For example, I consider the introduction of market surveillance by Member States to be very important. This actually means that all Member States should check a selection of vehicles to be placed on the market regardless of who has granted type-approval. Member States should verify that the vehicles in that selection meet the safety and environmental requirements. If necessary, measures should be imposed, e.g. a recall. It is therefore necessary to lay down in the implementing acts the number of vehicles and the type of vehicles to be checked. That solves Mrs Van Veldhoven's problem a little bit. She says that there are 28 Member States and you can choose where to do that. This proposal therefore states that not only the type-approval is necessary, for which you can choose a Member State, but that it is also necessary for certain parts of that approval to be reviewed in all other Member States. Some parts of the motion I very much support, but in other parts I have my reservations. Let me be clear about the point where I have reservations. I hope I can get the proposers on this. I wonder whether the European Commission itself should carry out checks on that. In fact, additional controls are introduced by the Member States, which then supervise other Member States. Does the European Commission have to carry out a check itself? That's what I'm thinking. I have already raised the issue of whether we should have a separate European authority or whether we should ensure that our own authorities carry out an unambiguous and transparent programme on the basis of which matters are accredited, which also makes these matters safe. I do see a directing role for the European Commission. So perhaps we are very close together, because I heard Mr Hoogland say that he does not want a separate European authority. I think we need to find out where we can find each other. Like Mr Hoogland, I believe that technical services should be able to do their job independently and impartially. I also very much support that part of the motion. I think independence is best achieved by accreditation. This accreditation could take shape, for example, under the responsibility of the European Commission. Here too you can see the direction of the Commission. Perhaps we disagree on the application of a uniform rate. Or should car manufacturers no longer have freedom of choice if they want to have a type of car approved? I see no objection to freedom of choice. On the contrary, it would be good if the "RDWs" of all these countries were to be more or less competitive and thus encouraged to do well and better, so that parties would very much like to have their cars inspected by a certain technical service, because they would then have an extra good stamp. I see no objection to this, as long as those technical services operate independently, I say to Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Hoogland. In my opinion, the crux is in the independent operation and accreditation under the responsibility of the European Commission. As far as I am concerned, if this is guaranteed, manufacturers can choose where to carry out their tests. In this case, tariffs should also be subject to competition, as this is only good for the efficient operation of technical services. The Commission already plays a coordinating role in the various type-approval authorities' programmes to detect manipulation tools. That brings me to the last part of the motion, which calls for an extra effort. So that's already happening. It's already possible. A working group under the leadership of the Joint Research Centre has also been set up. At this point, therefore, we do not need to make any additional arrangements at the moment. In other words, I agree with most of the motion, but I cannot agree with the parts I have explicitly mentioned. I think those parts just went too far. There are more important points for the regulation. These points can be addressed here. Among other things, it may be discussed whether to give complete openness to software and source codes. Mr Hoogland and Mrs Dik-Faber have asked a question about this. I also think it is important to see if there can be more openness about software and source codes. In the end, this is important not only for this case, but also for things such as self-driving cars, safety and traffic management in the future. I do not know whether we can ensure that the software is completely open, because I assume that there will always be intellectual property and perhaps there are also security reasons for not having the software fully open. However, we can explore with each other how we can get more openness around the software and the source codes. Perhaps we can store them in a safe place, so that there is transparency for a limited part of the people. That seems important to me too. I can respond positively to that question by Mr Hoogland and Mrs Dik-Faber. We find that interesting. In the end it is no longer so much about the software, but about the good practice test. If in practice it becomes clear what emissions a particular car has, it doesn't matter at all what that car does with the software.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u249	The Minister always goes on and on. Well, that's great, but if you want to put in an interruption, you think, "When can you do that?" My question concerns two subjects ago, namely the type of approvals. The Minister and the PvdA look fundamentally differently at whether there should be market forces in them or not, but I would like to leave that fundamental distinction behind me, because that is a fruitless debate. However, the question is whether it is real to think that countries are going to appeal to each other for the quality they deliver when they look for the soil, for the lowest possible price. Is that real when you see how that works in the European Union with the car lobby and all those industries, where countries have common interests: France, Germany, Italy, you name it? Is it real to think that this is going to work or is it just going to need a step more?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u250	This is only a very small point in the Commission's proposal. The Commission is going very far. We support that, too. Other Member States are paying extra attention to the testing of others. That would allow you to take out bad behavior, as far as you're assuming they're showing it. For example, our own RDW is a very independent organisation; it has no interest in showing bad behavior. Technical services shall be made independent and capable of doing their work impartially. That's what it says. That, too, is important to me. It is accredited by the European Commission. That's all in there. There is one point on which we differ, but that is a minor point: do you all need one rate? I do not believe that this is a very decisive factor in the choice of manufacturers to choose the country of type-approval. Ultimately, it is about whether it is transparent, whether they comply with the rules of the game and whether they are doing their job well. If, in the meantime, they are able to do so efficiently and therefore have a slightly more attractive rate than another, I think that is only right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u251	I agree with the Minister. This is not the most important point either. I agree with her, but is it possible for countries to actually sanction? It's nice to talk, but as long as there's nothing attached to it, it's not gonna do us any good. And is this Real Driving Emissions test really an imitation of a real situation? That's what the Brenner Pass was called, but of course it's a lot more situations: in the case of rain, you name it. Are they really all in those tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u252	I will return to the sanctions in a moment. Mrs Visser also asked about this when she talked about the stick. The Real Driving Emissions test contains a lot of elements: hard or soft, outdoor or in urban areas, you name it. But also the roller bench test needs to change. I was the last person I wanted to come back to. Those were the questions about Article 5.2. I have my own ideas about what you might do with that in the meantime. I told you about software. Now I'm getting to the stick. Mrs Visser asked, but Mr Hoogland is actually asking. Indeed, point one is the introduction of market surveillance, the selection, the other Member States looking at it. This gives you extra eyes that look at the process, but what do you do when you find out that it is not going well? Well, the good thing is that we are now really introducing sanctions in this proposal in case Member States fail to impose sanctions. Member States are watching. They can impose a recall. Member States should lay down penalties in the event that manufacturers, technical services and other market players fail to comply with obligations. Those penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Each year, Member States must report to the Commission on the sanctions imposed. If Member States fail to impose sanctions, the European Commission may impose an administrative penalty of up to €30,000 per vehicle that does not meet the requirements. That's a pretty big sanction, isn't it? There will also be more and stricter controls of the technical services carried out jointly and coordinated by the approval authorities. This, of course, puts a certain amount of pressure on the parties. It also proposes an adaptation of the rules for recall actions, the calls, for vehicles presenting a serious risk. The obligation to participate in the recall will be extended to the importer and distributors. It was voluntary and they did well, but someday someone will be able to come who doesn't want to work on it. Many new sanction instruments are being put in place for the time when it is found that there is bad behavior. I will stop immediately, because I know that Mr Hoogland would like to interrupt on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u253	I'd like to go into one thing in fact, because I'm not usually that long of dust. Are the sanctions imposed by the Commission or is it related to my question what the countries can do amongst themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u254	Member States shall impose sanctions if they find cases based on their type of approval. If Member States do not impose sanctions, the European Commission may impose an administrative fine of €30,000 per vehicle that does not meet the requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u255	Mrs Visser, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u256	Yes, Mr President, that is correct, but this is at the heart of the debate. With the Secretary of State, we had a discussion about what's going on. We had two points on the subject: the tuxedo gun, I would like to mention this for a moment, and we know exactly what we are talking about: the different emission strategy and the issue of Volkswagen's manipulation software. Does the Minister consider that the current proposal is sufficient to actually act, to use and beat that stick? She lists a number of things and I think it is right that the Chamber should have an overview of them to see how they relate to each Member State. Can this prevent different emission strategies in the future, including with the RDE test?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u257	No. I wanted to come back to that later, but do it right now. It's very complex with all the things that get mixed up. You have the fraud and these rules make it much easier to detect fraud and apply sanctions. You also have the fact that there is now much more allowed within the rules "Article 5.2" is already mentioned by several parties, for example, which allows you to legally deviate from what you give up as an emission and from what you actually emit. We also want to do something about the latter. This is a temporary measure, because once you have the real driving emissions test, it is no longer interesting what the cars show for results in the other tests. It's all about what the actual test shows, but that's gonna take a while. However, you can now repair article 5.2 quite quickly. That is what I would like and what is new in the European context. I would like to see at the June Council whether we can take a first step in that direction. Can we amend Article 5.2 in such a way that we can remove as many exceptions as possible? I need to see how far I can go in there. Can we look at the best state of the art on the basis of that adjustment? Someone said that the test was from 1972 and that a car looked really different then than it is now. Can we include in that article that you have to assume the best state of the art? And if third thing is, I think, the most interesting repair, you might want to see if you can let those who do best, the best practices, be leading. With this you build a continuous incentive to compare with the real driving emissions test and to get better and better in competition. This is something that's playing with us. I'll be right back to the RDE tests we're doing for all the other car brands. If results come out of that, we'll have the next discussion. You see, it's said that the other brands are different, too. We say that this is not fraud, but something else. We are already looking for an instrument to solve that other part. The regulation now before us to strengthen market surveillance is a very good instrument of the European Commission, but that is only a part of it. The best thing would be if we could also repair Article 5.2 in order to get the exceptions out as much as possible and as quickly as possible and build in an incentive to become cleaner and better. Ultimately, resource policy is always much more interesting to work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u258	Mrs. van Veldhoven, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u259	Mr President, I had already warned that I would perhaps make use of your flexibility. But who knows, maybe I'll get there with this. I welcome what the Minister says last about what she wants to do in the meantime in order to minimise the huge gap in the law in the light of the amendment of the regulation. In the end, we all have an interest in that. My question concerns the future situation. In future, Member States will have to establish cases on the basis of their type-approval and then impose fines. The whole problem was, of course, that in Germany people knew that the emissions of these cars were much higher but that they did not do anything with them. We knew it too, but we couldn't do anything with it. The European Commission will soon be able to impose a fine on Germany. But if the European Commission cannot investigate this itself, how will we find out that there is such a deviation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u260	The tests carried out by the RDW or in Germany by the KBA will soon need to be more standardised. That is what the Commission is saying: we want to standardise, we want to accredit, we want to have independent technical services. Everyone must therefore comply with this obligation to provide information. Because other Member States can also look at a certain quantity of brands, you have supervision. You could have said that this is not what other Member States are doing, but we are letting a new organisation do it. I think it is best to use the authorities of the Member States. The RDW is already testing a lot of brands in response to the Volkswagen discussion. On an x number of brands, which have been type-approved by the KBA, the RDW can carry out a test in the future. In reply to Mrs van Veldhoven's question, how can the European Commission see that? If it turns out that the KBA or Germany are not doing anything about it, the European Commission could issue a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u261	Then I trust that the Dutch authority in Brussels will ring the bell about the in fact 'legal fraud'. After all, it is a breach of the law; the result was that the consumer was lied to. Our agency will then have to report this in Brussels and the European Commission will then impose a fine on Germany. Did I get that right? After all, the difference is as follows. What does the consumer notice in practice and what is allowed under the law? That is the situation we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u262	That is why we have also said that we do not yet have the instrument to solve this problem. This requires an adaptation of Article 5.2. That is not happening now, but I would like to raise that myself in the Transport Council. If that is in line with the agenda, we must also address it in the Environment Council and the Competition Council at the same time. I expect other countries to want to do the same. I can tell from a few colleagues that they think that, if you ever want to get rid of this discussion, you're gonna have to close this hole. If we get out of it, it won't happen anymore and it won't be what you need to check specifically. However, there is always a loophole in the law when testing. You'll always have to keep an eye on that. But once again, in addition to the RDW of an individual country which does the type-approval and should in itself be independent, the other RDW's are also going to look at that again. So there is already, in fact, double-checking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u263	The Minister says that the Netherlands is going to focus on a rapid adaptation of Article 5.2. Is this possibly also related to CO emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u264	Article 5.2 focuses on NO, i.e. not on CO. This has to do with the tests that are now being carried out; they are aimed at NO. For CO there is another test, namely the WLTP, the Worldwide harmonised Light Vehicles Test Procedure. I think he's in the revision now. If it turns out in the future that you have to do that kind of thing too, then you can, but that's not the issue right now. We are talking about the NOX problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u265	It is, of course, about the fact that if, by means of a new method of testing, other results come out of the bus, taxation changes because the cabinet collects taxes based on CO emissions. However, this is not about CO emissions, so that is in no way a tax story. My second question is to what extent consumers are obliged to have their Volkswagen adjusted. Can this increase fuel consumption or reduce the performance of the car and, if so, what will the Minister do for these consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u266	Members of parliament are so curious that they want to get through all the questions every time. This question is still before the House. I should like to close by replying to Mrs Visser's question about the stick. So there is a stick in the European regulation, which strengthens supervision. We'd like to make a stick. That is the adaptation of article 5.2, which simply prevents manufacturers from taking up that space and encourages you on the source side to allow best practices to be leading. That is my intention. So we're really still in an early stage. I still have to get my hands on that. It's not a done deal, I'm just saying. If Mrs Visser asks what I would like, that is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u267	I think this is very important, even in the debate on whether you can act. The Minister indicates a number of possibilities. I think it would be a good idea to report that to the Chamber again, including what that has to do with the consequences. We do want action to be taken if it is violated. The Minister noted that this new regulation could be a part and a part of it could not be. I have wishes in that and I see opportunities in that. I think it is very good to reward innovation. How can you stimulate the market in that? I think it would also be a good idea to put that in order once, so that the Chamber can also see what it means and make a judgment on it. I think that could give the Minister a little extra support.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u268	That's definitely good. It's very fresh. I'm just working on it myself. We have not even finished the tests in the Netherlands. I do, of course, see things coming to colleagues. The Germans and the English are almost ready. Then you'll see that there will be another discussion. We have had the Volkswagen fraud, but then we are going to talk again about the differences found between emissions in practice and those in the laboratory. Then we still haven't answered that properly. That was the reason for me to see what we could do even before we get the results of tests in the Netherlands, so that we don't waste any time. So I have to prepare that with my colleagues. I have to find friends in Europe for that. I will. I will make that proposal for the Chamber when I submit the bet to the Chamber for the Transport Council. Then she can assess that commitment and see if she thinks it goes far enough. Mr Madlener is concerned about the adaptation of the Volvos, excuse me, I mean Volkswagen. He asked if you could choose to participate in the call or not and if the ACM is involved. Consumers in the Netherlands usually participate very well in a recall. Most of the time, it's about 80%. In this case, however, the question arises as to whether they are participating. Often it has to do with safety and they want to have their brake replaced if it does not work. In this case, it is the question and we do not know in advance. There is no obligation, so the consumer is not required. So he doesn't have to be the victim of that software adjustment recall. However, this obligation exists for the manufacturer and the importer. They have to call everyone. They will try to get as many parties as possible to adapt their cars, but the consumer is entitled to do so. Any consumer may lodge a complaint with the Authority Consumer & Market. In principle, this is not up to the government, but directly to the consumer. That's how the system works. Mr Madlener said he heard that cars would perform worse. Volkswagen itself states that there are no negative impacts on fuel consumption, CO emissions, noise, engine power and engine torque, which is important for caravan tractors. The CBA, the review body, has so far found no deviations. If the CBA does find any deviations, this authority must monitor precisely this. It is obliged to report them to the DVD and to all other type-approval authorities of other countries. I do not know where Mr Madlener's story comes from. Volkswagen itself states that there is no negative effect and the KBA indicates that it has not been able to establish that there is a deviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u269	Mr Madlener, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u270	I've got two more, Mr. Chairman. I've used up two half-interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u271	We kept it strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u272	That's why!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u273	We look at it with mild eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u274	The Minister's answer worries me anyway. Consumers are not obliged to follow up on a recall and make adjustments, but importers are. It happens all the time without you knowing it. A software update can be done in the garage during each turn. A consumer often doesn't know that. My question is whether consent is required. Do we really need to ask the consumer whether he wants this software adjustment? If so, will the consumer be informed of its possible disadvantages? My information is that the magazine Auto, Motor und Sport..... is a good magazine from Germany... has done a test with the first model with a 2.0 TDI engine from Volkswagen. This led to a significant increase in consumption. That's the only test I've been able to find. Is the Minister prepared to keep a close eye on this and to ask the Authority for Consumer & Market, to actively monitor whether the consumer is not affected by the software adjustment and whether the adjustment takes place with the express consent of consumers? If there is a higher consumption or there are other disadvantages, the consumer must be compensated. I believe that the Minister will then have a duty to protect consumer interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u275	I was just saying that the Volkswagen's performance isn't diminished by the software update. At least that's what the manufacturer promises. The KBA has tested this in several models and has also found that this is not the case. We think this is real, because the soft and hardware of these cars were developed years ago. Much is possible with new software, especially when it comes to achieving improvements. If we get a signal that there is a deterioration, we will, of course, keep an eye on it. The ACM really needs to be brought in by the consumer and not by the government. On the question of whether consent is needed for an update, I will come back in the second term. I don't know yet. After all, the Tesla update was not approved by anyone either. I also do not recall that when I removed my car in recent years, I was explicitly asked if I would be okay if the newest model was installed. So it may well be that this is not an explicit issue. It would only be a problem if the car actually deteriorates. All the signals I'm getting show that the car isn't getting worse. However, I would like to keep an eye on that. I understand that Mr Madlener has read an article based on one car. I can't say anything about that, because I don't know the article. I'll keep an eye on it, but basically the starting point is that it doesn't make the car worse, but it's better. That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u276	If the car gets better and it doesn't cause any disadvantages, then I don't see what the consumer's interest is. The magazine Auto Motor und Sport is really a very large magazine in Germany and the people there are very good at this type of testing. They have shown that consumption has increased after all. As a result of my question on this subject, the Minister will certainly examine this matter. The Minister admits she'll keep an eye on it. I would like to receive a note from the Minister in some time, perhaps before the summer recess, stating that she has really investigated this and that it has shown that there has been no increase in consumption. I would appreciate that for all consumers, who cannot, of course, determine this themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u277	We must, of course, rely on what the CBA tells us. The CBA is doing all the tests, and we're not going to do them again. Maybe we're gonna do an extra investigation when the new system comes and when we're gonna adopt the regulation. That doesn't exist yet, so I have to rely on the CBA. Mr Madlener also knows that if you take one individual car in one specific situation, the fuel consumption could be completely different from that in another place. I do not know how that car magazine did that, but it is of course perfectly possible that this corresponds to what we have been talking about here all along. A car has a completely different emission if you drive it around the city, than if you drive it on the highway. I myself do not feel like doing an own investigation on the basis of this one case, but I have said that I will keep an eye on it. This means that I will ask my colleague again if there are any signs that it has got worse or that this is not the case. I can also check with the DMV, who can check with his colleagues. However, that's different than doing an investigation of our own, because it's not really our deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u278	Mr Madlener asked whether this could be reversed before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u279	You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u280	I was just thinking, and I was wondering if this is how we're not getting very naive. The German authorities do not note that software fraud is being committed, that there is fraud software and that there will be an update of an automobile brand, which we have already mentioned a few times this evening. The Minister then says that she must rely on this German authority and on the car supplier. I think that's really naive. My first question was whether the government or the RDW are going to investigate whether that software update actually does what is promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u281	Again, that's what the KBA does. So you assume that other types of approval organisations are not doing well and ours are doing well. They all need to do this right, and they need to make it all clear. That software fraud, so to speak, couldn't be detected. Even the Americans haven't found it. They threatened at some point: we've discovered something, we can't quite place it, so go bare your buttocks. That's when Volkswagen finally came up with it himself. It's very complex. I'd almost say you can hardly blame the KWA for not seeing this. This software fraud was specific to the US market, because there are stricter standards. Eventually, all our types of approval organisations are extra alert after this case. It's their honor to not see things. They are there to observe, to protect our rules, to protect the environment and to understand when manufacturers do something they should not do. The KBA does this type of approvals for Volkswagen and thus again does the approval when Volkswagen will replace its manipulated product with a better product. I don't think you can say that if they didn't see it then they're not gonna do it right now and the DMV has to do it again. That would be the same as if the Germans were going to do the work of the Dutch because they don't know if it works. I don't think you should do that. The solution lies among other things in the Commission's proposal. It states that the authorities should be able to do their job, but that we should also ensure that we do a sample among other countries which also check a number of cars from those authorities. I think that's a very nice solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u282	I stand here tonight as a representative of the people in the interests of the consumer who has done so. I think the answers are really naive. I don't have another word for that. They didn't find anything. You can see in practice that the emission values are much higher than stated. There is no search, not even in the Netherlands. I also asked a question about this in the first term. Are we going back to the blue or brown eyes of the German RDW? Are we just gonna believe what they're doing? I really can't reach that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u283	The Secretary of State has simply answered the question whether there has been a search. The Netherlands has been one of the first to note that there are differences and that this has also been raised in a European context. Several parties know what this is about. We have rules that make this possible because they allow all kinds of exceptions. Therefore, there is a difference between the practice and the laboratory. That is not because there are very secret elements in it, but simply because there is the possibility. Fortunately, in the past, the Netherlands has already chosen to rely on real emissions. So we are not based on test and roller bank results, but simply on real emissions. In my view, we do not think that there is any difference here either: for all other brands, too, it should apply that, first of all, we should not cheat and, secondly, we should simply remove the space that exists. That is what I propose with the amendment of 5.2. The Commission proposes to double the review by Member States. In my view, therefore, there is absolutely no naivety, but the loopholes that were present are being closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u284	Clear. Mrs Van Tongeren now has the opportunity to make a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u285	Following on from the questions raised by my colleague from the CDA, I would like to ask the following question. Both in America, where this scandal came to light, and in Europe, an environmental club has warned us about this very early on. This was done in Europe in 2006. Would it not be wise in future to take these kinds of signals from environmental organisations a little more seriously? The minister just said the KBA couldn't detect this. Then there was a very clear signal from an environmental organisation; you could actually call it a whistleblower scheme. In the end, they act on it in America. That's where it was established, and Volkswagen admitted it. As far as I know, little has been done in Europe with the signal from that environmental organisation in 2006. We can't change the past anymore, but we can change the future. Would the Minister be in favour of involving such signals more seriously in future research programmes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u286	I think I gave the same answer to Mr Geurts. The Secretary of State has just said that the Netherlands has started working on it. As one of the first countries, the Netherlands has found that there is a difference between actual emissions and emissions from the test facilities. We have also raised this issue at European level and proposed that we proceed to Real Driving Emissions tests. That's what it's all about in the end. That's all you want. It is not interesting at all what happens on the roller banks or in a test laboratory. Let them use that for their own tests. As policy makers, we want to know what actual emissions are. The Netherlands has argued in favour of this. Unfortunately, sometimes you need an accident or a crisis to get it done. When it arrived, the Netherlands also argued for the strictest and fastest variant. The Netherlands has certainly started to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u287	I don't know if the Minister understands me deliberately or unconsciously. I'm talking about the disclosure that Volkswagen deliberately cheated. The first indications for this came from an environmental organization in America. Then that was tested and then Volkswagen admitted it. In Europe, an environmental organisation warned already in 2006 that not only emissions in general were too high compared to the test, but also more specifically that this could only be done with software. TNO then established that at some point very disguised, but there was no visible response from our government. I told you, we can't change the past anymore. But between 2006 and 2016 there is quite a time lag. Should we not take this kind of whistleblower noise from environmental organisations more seriously next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u288	I think we should always take whistleblower sounds seriously. Indeed, I do not know about the research carried out in 2006 by an environmental organisation. I assumed it was about the differences, but Mrs Van Tongeren says it was specifically about Volkswagen. I don't know the investigation. I don't know what happened to it then either. Mrs Van Tongeren is talking about the future. We must always be alert, but the best thing is to ensure that our regulations simply do not leave room for this kind of thing. That's actually the proposal I was just trying to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u289	An interruption by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u290	At the same point. It's a scandal what's happening here. The CEO of Volkswagen has disappeared by the tail between his legs, but the debate is now going into very much technology and watering down into an article from a directive that offers loopholes to car sellers. I ask the Minister whether she really thinks it is a monkey sandwich and whether we should simply change the article and then be ready. That is not what public opinion is like on this whole issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u291	I don't think so myself. I began my speech by saying that we also reject fraud and believe that it should not be possible and that, if it is done, it should be punished. That discussion was held here some time ago. I have spoken about it a few times, both in AO's and in other parliamentary debates. I fully agree with you that fraud has been committed and that this is a bad thing. Only now we are a step further. I believe that we are also here because there are now proposals from the European Commission to strengthen and strengthen supervision and enforcement. I'd love to hear what the Chamber thinks about that. We'll tell you what we think. In addition, I am now making a proposal to see whether we can amend Article 5.2. We have already come up with a solution in the meantime, the Real Driving Emissions test, so a real practice test. We now have a solution from the Commission for enforcement and monitoring. There is still a gap and that is not about the fraud, but about all the other brands that are different. I would also like to close that, as far as possible. That is why we are discussing it now. We are not just trying to say that it is shameful, but we are trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u292	A follow-up question from Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u293	Haven't we been sleeping like hell? I spoke at the beginning of my speech about the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. I don't know if the Minister's gonna talk about that anymore. In fact, you have disadvantaged the pigs of Mr Geurts and the industry by giving fraudulent nitrogen to traffic rather than the nitrogen it is supposed to emit. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u294	No, it's not. That's the beauty of it. The Netherlands has always chosen to base the policy, whether it is about speed policy or how many highways you build or other things like PAS, on real emissions. The PAS and the NSL are based on emission factors developed by TNO and RIVM. In doing so, data shall be used from practical measurements and not from test measurements. That's why we never counted ourselves rich. We did not think: the brochure says that we only emit so much, then we can increase speed, build a road, build a pigsty or expand some industry. We never did. We are based on real emissions. Fortunately, therefore, we have no problem in this respect. The only thing the Netherlands thought it had a problem was how we got it done. The Secretary of State for Finance has said that it is limited to a smaller group of cars. That leaves what you think is ethical. That is the moral debate, and we have expressed our opinion on it many times. I do not think there are any differences of opinion between the parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u295	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u296	This has therefore been taken into account in the PAS and the NSL. The 130 km/h was also discussed. The Secretary of State has said something about this, but emissions are also well taken into account when passing on air quality, both the speed of driving and the degree of increase when driving on the highway. If emissions increase more than proportionally at a higher speed, this is also reflected in the calculation models. I think an extensive letter was sent yesterday. Mr Smaling asked whether sanctions have been imposed with regard to the type-approval of parts of cars. No, because the DMV or the German KBA didn't find any fraud in other cars. There is therefore no sanction. There are tests going on right now. The Germans and the English are almost done and we will be done with it sometime in June. Something of fraud may still come up, but not so far. The type-approval can only be withdrawn if it is shown that there is a serious risk, for example that safety is at stake. That's not usually the case. Anyway, we'll just have to wait and see what those tests do. RDW has issued a type-approval for the emissions of light diesel vehicles for 22 car manufacturers. These are cars from all kinds of countries for which we are type-approval. In October last year, on this issue, we asked manufacturers whether they also used defeat devices. Then, of course, they all replied neatly that they had not used defeat devices like Volkswagen. I thought that legal was very neat. Then you're wondering, what is? That's why we're looking deeper. We do a number of practical tests to see if there are any suspicious differences between emissions on the dynamometer and on the road. The results of this can lead us to carry out further research. The tests are still being started, because they have to be done by means of a tender, as always with this kind of thing. In mid-2016, in June or July, that is finished, I think. Then we will inform the Chamber about the results and the follow-up steps. The last question concerns the recall of 160,000 cars. If that software is only ticked off by RDW or really tested, Mr Geurts asked. The responsibility for the recall to recover this lies with the CBA, because it also granted type approval at the time. The KBA found that the motor vehicles again meet European requirements through the technical solution provided by Volkswagen. There's no reason to question that. It belongs to the powers of the CBA to do so, as I said. They will undoubtedly do that well, because they will also have to understand it and everyone is on top of this. If we find that there are any deviations, we will, of course, report them and make them clear. Recapitulating, there are three issues involved in the debate on fraud and derogations. We've agreed on a Real Driving Emissions test for the future. This will help to talk about real emissions throughout Europe and to show them. The second point is that we are going to strengthen enforcement and monitoring. I have mentioned a number of proposals for this. The third point is that I want to see if in the meantime we can adapt Article 5.2, so that there is also an incentive effect to give best practices and the latest technology a role. I am only at the very beginning, because that is what I have to introduce to colleagues. I hope this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u297	An interruption by Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u298	Okay, one more. How is it that the Americans are fully committed to this and we are not at all? Actually, only the Netherlands. All other Member States are also not aware of the fact that the real driving emissions test will only be introduced in 2021. What's that all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u299	In America they have a different standard, which is many times lower. Now I have to figure out what the reasons were for Volkswagen to do this. This has probably been the reason to install that software. If you look at the European demands, they would not have had to do so at all. They could have taken the same space as other car brands. It was seen there because the standard is much lower and they were much stricter on it. Why Volkswagen does something like that, I don't know. In Europe we agree that there should be no fraud and that the tests should be as real as possible. There's no difference of opinion on that. There is at most a difference between European countries about the speed with which you have to do something. One country wants that faster. That's what we want. We also have an interest in this, because we are a full country, as I always say. If you want to grow and move, you need to keep emissions as low as possible. We always have an interest in encouraging this because we want to keep moving. For other countries, that is less true. They may have a larger car industry, which says: we do want to, but we can't do it that fast, so you don't want to argue too hard for it, Minister. There may be differences; I cannot go into them. I can only say what we are doing on our own behalf and on behalf of the Chamber and what it calls upon us to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u300	But do we, as a Chamber, hang in the curtains too quickly or do you take the wrong tone against your colleagues in Brussels? The Netherlands is apparently an exception within the conglomerate of 28 countries. That surprises me, given the attention it has received here in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u301	A final moment of reflection by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u302	I believe that other parliaments have also been hung in the curtains, in one country perhaps more than in the other. We have an extra interest in keeping our emissions as low as possible. We also have a difficult country. It's very densely populated. Industry, roads, people: everything is close together. In Sweden, where clean air is always very much stimulated, you have simplisticly said a village, an hour nothing and another village. There it goes a little easier. It may well be that there is therefore less urgency to do something with it. We feel that urgency and want to do it very much, in such a way that it happens in real and cost-effective terms, because you cannot ban things that you cannot live up to. But we would have liked and advocated a little more ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u303	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term. You all have two minutes' speaking time in that. That's to avoid misunderstandings, including filing your motions. I would like to give Mrs Van Veldhoven the opportunity to speak first. She speaks on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u304	Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to read it very quickly, because I actually wanted to make some compliments and there's no time for that anymore. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Real Driving Emission test (RDE test) for nitrogen oxides (NO) emissions has been widely applied since 2017;]] [[Whereas full disclosure and transparency of test results will lead to better testing;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to promote full disclosure and transparency of the results of the RDE tests and to inform the Court of Justice about them this year;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the customer knows as soon as possible what a car actually emits, for example on the basis of TNO's test results, and to ensure that this information becomes easily accessible, for example by adding this information to advertisements such as in showrooms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the single market, health and the environment benefit from the uniform application and enforcement of a new European test of practice, so as to enable timely action to be taken in the event of suspected fraud;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to promote adequate monitoring and enforcement at European level, for example by measuring actual emissions by sampling after approval, and by allowing national type-approval authorities and/or Member States to present irregularities, including on cars approved in another country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas not only in the field of nitrogen oxides (NO) but also in the field of CO emissions and/or CO emissions. fuel consumption differences exist between the performance of cars in the test situation and performance in practice;]] [[whereas, although a new test procedure (WLTP) for CO emissions is to be introduced in 2017, this is not a practical test;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the development of a Real Driving Emission test (RDE test) for CO emissions or q. fuel consumption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven and Hoogland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-181]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Geurts, Hoogland and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-182]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-183]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u305	I still have half a minute left for a few individual comments and compliments. I am very pleased that the Minister intends to amend Article 5.2, that big gap in the law. Only if we manage to limit a legal exceedance of the standard to situations where there is really no other way, will we get closer to actual use. Then hopefully we will also find ourselves in a situation where the glossy brochures really match what is actually being used. I have one last question. The RDWs can peer-review each other in the new proposal. Can they report abuses anonymously to the European Commission, so that there can be no political pressure in any way not to act on the exceedances that are detected in a particular country? Can the Commission follow these signals through, for example, enforcement proposals which it itself has now included in its proposal? Because reporting anonymously from another Member State or from another type-approval authority is essential to the actual operation in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u306	Thank you. The compliments will be passed on. I call Mr Hoogland on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u307	Mr. Chairman. On one point, Mr President, there is a motion that we have already tabled, and we have a difference of opinion with the Minister, and that concerns the question of whether European testing should also be possible. That point remains in the air after all. Then I'll file two more motions. The first is about the accessibility of software, and has been co-signed by Mrs Van Tongeren, who has been advocating this for some time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas fraud involving diesel cars has been committed by using misleading software;]] [[Whereas disclosure of the software of these cars will speed up the detection of any abuses;]] [[Whereas major car manufacturers have already made public (parts of) the software used;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, at European level, how to make software accessible to more parties (the different type-approval authorities, technical services, designated technical universities, etc.),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that negotiations on the preparation of the RDE test have reached a final stage;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness of the RDE test will be largely determined by the elaboration of the latest details;]] [[calls on the Government, TNO, to carry out a strength-weakness analysis of the fully developed RDE test and to send its results to the Lower House prior to final decision-making in the Council of Ministers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Hoogland and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-184]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Hoogland and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u308	I would also like to thank the rulers for their reply. On a number of points, this has given a lot of clarity about the problem. In the first term I was sceptical, but now I would like to say that a number of steps have also been taken in the right direction in the Netherlands on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u309	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are differences between test emissions and practical emissions for all combustion engines;]] [[Whereas the new realistic tests are still a long way from being carried out;]] [[Whereas therefore, consumers do not yet have reliable information on fuel consumption;]] [[calls on the Government to require car manufacturers to make practical information on fuel consumption available to consumers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Volkswagen has announced that it will pay back environmental subsidies;]] [[Whereas this money was intended to promote sustainable mobility;]] [[calls on the Government to use the environmental subsidies paid by car manufacturers to promote clean transport and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a growing number of car manufacturers, such as BMW, Hyundai and Kia, are committed to clean transport;]] [[Whereas, for example, Tesla has indicated its intention to open a European plant and distribution centre;]] [[Whereas this development offers opportunities for Dutch industry and employment;]] [[calls on the government to make (maximum) efforts to ensure a good locational environment to achieve more activity and employment in clean transport to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-186]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-187]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u310	I would also like to congratulate the rulers on the speedy implementation of some of the motions. My final point, however, may be that another debate is more concerned with the motion which states that in the top sectors of Energy, Hightech systems and materials and Logistics more attention will be paid to electric and self-driving vehicles. The Minister is very interested in this and I hope that we can actually achieve it and bring that employment to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u311	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the police are exempt from mrb and are reimbursed from bpm, which means that the police have no incentive to opt for cleaner vehicles via car taxes;]] [[whereas there is no reason for this exemption and refund and that the police can also be compensated for these charges outside taxation;]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to the Chamber by Princess Day 2016 to lift the immunity of Mrb and refund of bpm to the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NEDC (New European Driving Cycle) test procedure is replaced by the WLTP (Worldwide harmonised Light Vehicles Test Procedures) and that this is intended to reduce the difference between practical and factory usage;]] [[Whereas this should not lead to the erosion of CO standards;]] [[Whereas there is one car group that has developed a test to test CO emissions in practice, which are also made publicly available;]] [[Calls on the Government to use a conversion factor as close to 0 as possible in the conversion of CO standards to WLTP and not to agree to a conversion with a reduction of CO standards;]] [[calls on the government also to call on the Dutch car importers to join initiatives that test CO in practice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is great dissatisfaction with the European agreement on the RDE test procedure for NO, with a high compliance factor of 1.5 for all new vehicles from 1 January 2021, allowing for years to go beyond emission standards;]] [[Whereas this factor is not interpreted by the European Commission as a more flexible standard for practice, but as a margin of uncertainty due inter alia to the inaccuracies in mobile measuring equipment which will be evaluated annually and, if necessary, strengthened to the state of progress of measurement technology;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to minimise inaccuracies by improving mobile measuring equipment, to contribute to studies and to submit research results to the European Commission in order to reduce the conformity factor for NO as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-189]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-190]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-191]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u312	Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking about what has stuck with me from this debate. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their reply. What lingered is that the car industry says that high emissions are to protect the engine, that fraud has been committed but that the approach is very difficult and that the cabinet is now focusing on the future and trying to close the gaps that have fallen in the past. But what we have to do is to get to the point where the consumer is affected. The consequences of an adjustment of engine management are totally unknown. When I think about it with my farmers' understanding, I think: either the consumption gets higher, or the power gets less. It's either one or the other. This is done by the Germans, who have not discovered the manipulation. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, as part of the type-approval of motor vehicles, the use of manipulation tools that reduce the efficiency of emission control systems is not permitted;]] [[Whereas a foreign inspection body has approved non-compliant vehicles and the same foreign inspection body now adopts the technical solution;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the technical solution is not only monitored, but also examined and monitored for efficiency and compared with the earlier operation of the vehicle;]] [[calls on the Government to make public its findings as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-192]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u313	Have a nice evening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u314	I wish you well, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u315	Mr. Chairman. I cannot put it any better than Mr Geurts just did. I feel the same way. On the one hand there was a very clear explanation of the rulers in a short time; my compliments for that. On the other hand, there is the feeling that something that has had a lot of impact in public opinion and what can and should be called a scandal is still being reduced to an article in a directive which apparently gives the car manufacturer the opportunity to market his cars in this way. I find that very sad and very bad in relation to the population. It is also a bad example of how things seem to be regulated in Europe. Of course, it is well known that large car manufacturers spend a divinity on lobbying in Brussels. I'm sure that's what happened here. Hence my motion, which is similar to that of Mr Geurts, but is a little more repulsive in terms of tone. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that diesel fraud has resulted in many times more NO emissions than was assumed on the basis of what is reported in the sales glossies;]] [[noting that due to shortcomings in EU legislation, the Netherlands is not in a position to impose its own requirements on the import of cars;]] [[considers that the Dutch population is entitled to an effective approach to promote clean air after this scandal;]] [[calls on the government to examine the possibilities for banning new cars which have been identified as more polluting than they appear on the basis of the sales talks, from the Dutch market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u316	I'll give you my remaining 26 seconds, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u317	Thank you for this mild gift, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u318	Mr. Chairman. What has stuck with me is that the Netherlands is the busiest country in Europe and that we also suffer a great deal from it. It's getting more and more crowded, which I'm sorry about, too. Anyway, that's not what this debate is about. The Netherlands is not only the busiest country in Europe, but also the country that taxes the car the most. With us the car really is the milk cow of this government. We must therefore also be careful that all these cost-increasing environmental requirements do not lead to priceless cars. Due to these high loads in the Netherlands, we drive a relatively old fleet. The government says it has a high regard for the environment, but the milk cow is just a little more important than the environment. I'm sorry to hear that. I have expressed my concerns about the Volkswagen drivers. The Volkswagens are getting an update. We will hear from the Minister whether this update is mandatory or not, but we do not know what the consequences are for the people involved. I have quoted a good article which shows that consumption is increasing. I think people should know that in advance. I also think that Volkswagen should meet those consumers. I would therefore like to give a positive opinion on the Geurts/Van Veldhoven motion on item No. 192. I don't have a motion of my own, but there are plenty of motions. We will assess the motions on the basis of the possible impact on the costs of car mobility in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u319	Mr. Chairman. The debate focused on the questions: should we have known this, have we acted adequately and can we prevent this in the future? In my first term, there was a lot of discussion about what was and was not punishable. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has clarified this under the heading 'tuxedo gun' and that the Minister has also looked at the future in particular. In that context, I shall table a motion. I am particularly interested in the Minister's response to this. Maybe we can get together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new European Regulation (2016/427), including the RDE test, improves the enforcement capacity to intervene in the event of fraud;]] [[noting that there may still be a gap in Article 5.2 of this Regulation;]] [[calls on the Government to identify possible gaps and to propose solutions to them which maintain standards and stimulate innovation, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Visser. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31209-194]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u320	I think it is right to clarify this precisely because we are now entering the whole process of negotiations within the Commission and the Council. It is good to determine the Dutch commitment to this. When you make appointments, you have to be able to maintain them. If there are gaps, we must ensure that we eliminate them as quickly as possible. I have two specific questions. In line with Mr Geurts, I ask whether it is clear what it has meant for consumers. Are there any civil proceedings, or can there be more opportunities? If, in the context of the new supervision by the national Member States, it appears that one Member State has doubts about the other authorisation authority, can it challenge anonymously or not? Mrs Van Veldhoven asked that too. This is an important point of departure in order to keep each other sharp. My final question concerns the debate on the equalisation of emission standards for diesel and petrol. At the time, my group expressed its doubts about the motion on this subject, because it lacked two important elements, namely the consequences for the consumer's and transport's wallets and what it means for international competitiveness. I do not see both aspects in the progress of the research design. We think this is essential in the whole debate on this issue, especially because we simply meet the standards of air quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u321	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The directors have requested that the meeting be suspended for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u322	Mr. Chairman. I shall first answer some of the questions that remain open. Some of these questions have already been asked in the first period. I will then take responsibility for the reactions on a substantial part of the motions that have been tabled. Mrs Van Tongeren asked a question about openness regarding the creation of conversion factors for the calculation of air quality. This was discussed earlier during a general discussion on the Transport Council. I sent a letter to the Chamber on 27 November 2015. It describes how this happened. With that letter, TNO's report was sent in which this is explained. This was indeed the subject of a WOB request previously submitted to TNO, but in fact we made that information public at that time. Mrs Van Tongeren asked: why can't she? In fact, we had already delivered what Mrs Van Tongeren asked for. For the sake of clarity, Mrs Visser asked what CO standard the Netherlands is using. The Netherlands will ultimately determine the stakes when the Commission proposal is presented. That will go through the usual procedure, even here in the Chamber. We expect the proposal to come around the turn of the year. We now keep the 70 grams of COin 2025, and 35 grams of COin 2030. This commitment is not only based on a study by ECN, but is also in line with the agreements in the Energy Agreement. Of course, I say to Mrs Visser, feasibility and affordability must also be the starting point. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if a self-test of importers in the Netherlands is a good idea. It has also tabled a motion on this point. I'm responding to the question now. It is always a good idea in itself to provide the best possible information to consumers. My preference is, of course, to bring together as closely as possible the emissions mentioned in the glossy and, on the other hand, the actual emissions on the road. We've just established that with each other. Most importers in the Netherlands already indicate in the leaflet that emissions differ in practice. The better this is, the better it is for me. Mrs Visser has just said something in her speech about research into the equivalence of standards for petrol and diesel, and about international competitiveness in this respect. The motion belonged to Mrs Van Tongeren. I just said something about that. The research has been used as a technical study into the benefits to air quality. That research therefore looks exclusively at the technique. If the results of the research are known, the policy question will of course be discussed. International competitiveness must also be taken into account. However, the investigation was designed as a technical answer to that question. I come to the motions that have been tabled. The first, in part No. 181 was tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Hoogland. They call on the government to advocate in Europe as much openness as possible to the data of the RDE tests and then to ensure that the results become clear to the consumer as well. We'll use the following order. We are starting to argue for this in Europe. This leads to an answer to the question of whether we can do so in the Netherlands. Under that seizure, I could leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It begins with the fact that, of course, these data must be made public at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u323	Can this exegesis receive the approval of Mrs Van Veldhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u324	Let us hope that Europe will soon decide that there can be immediate disclosure of all this information. If it is a long time before Europe decides to do so, it would be good to consider the possibilities for informing consumers about this in the meantime. That is why I wrote "for example on the basis of the results of TNO's tests." I leave it to the Secretary of State to consider whether that is sufficiently solid, whether something else is needed and what is possible. But let us try to prevent consumers from having to wait four or five years before they know what kind of car they are buying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u325	That is indeed a matter of morality. That word has fallen a lot tonight. I understand that. It may also be that you want to show that openness from within the business community itself. Our commitment in Europe is clear. That is what we are going for, because, as I have said, public access to this file is our friend. It is really important that we have as much transparency as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u326	The Secretary of State leaves the verdict on the motion to the Chamber? Or is she taking over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u327	Judgment Room. I can accept the motion with the comments I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u328	Does any of the members present object to this? I see that this is the case. Then the motion comes to part no. 181 just in a mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u329	In order to make it easy for the Chamber, I can say that I have the motion in part no. 183 by Mrs Van Veldhoven. Unfortunately, with CO it works differently than with NO. Above all, it is important that cars are well comparable and that the dynamometer test is modernised. That is what we are going to do with the so-called WLTP test. More than what is currently happening through this test is not possible in practice at the moment. That's why I can't help but dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u330	The motion in part No. 183 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u331	I shall then come to the motion on part No. 185, in which the government is asked to have TNO perform a strength-weakness analysis of the fully developed RDE test. I'm prepared to take this motion. I have already promised to present an interim analysis of the RDE test before the summer. That research will be carried out together with TNO and RDE. I'll take the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u332	Does one of the members object to this? I note that this is the case. Then the motion comes to part no. 185 in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u333	Then I come to the motion on part No. 186, tabled by Mrs Van Tongeren. It believes that a great deal of information should be made available. In itself, the general principle is transparency first. However, the information referred to in the motion does not exist for manufacturers. In this case, they do not test on the road as far as these substances are concerned. The new WLTP test will, as I said, be closer to practical consumption, but it is never so precise. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u334	The motion in part No. 186 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u335	In itself, the starting point in the motion is sympathetic, but in practice it is a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u336	I understand that it is difficult in practice, but the request is that the best figures available should also be made available to the consumer. So I am not suggesting that in all circumstances the best figures should be made available to all car brands at once, but fuel figures are currently being provided which are reasonably proven wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u337	I want to be specific about what's in the motion. That's my dilemma. We must now move on to text exegesis. In the motion for a resolution, Mrs Van Tongeren asks that car manufacturers make practical information on fuel consumption available to consumers. She also relates that to CO. We're gonna get that test. This approach is much more realistic than it is at present, but we do not have the final practical data. As much publicity as possible is fine, but we also need to see where the limit of what we can ask is. That practical information is not yet available.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u338	The Secretary of State remains the motion in part No. 186 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u339	The Van Tongeren motion in part No. 187, I'm afraid I have to advise against it. Secretary of State Wiebes has asked which environmental subsidies are involved. The way in which recovery could be effected has already been explained in detail by him. For that reason, I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u340	If we call environmental subsidies 'fiscal incentives' in the motion for a resolution, is it clear? Perhaps it is not a huge amount, Mr Wiebes, but it can nevertheless be used to promote clean transport. The motion calls for the funds concerned to be "deployed" to promote this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u341	He explained his position in detail. I do not feel free to give a different opinion on this. Mrs Van Tongeren is now changing the motion on the scene. This also has to do with its policy area. If it is on my own territory, then I can enter into negotiations with the Chamber, but I do not feel comfortable doing so at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u342	The Chamber has agreed to the departure of Secretary of State Wiebes because his share in the debate would not be so great. There are small quotes around the word "environmental subsidies." I am trying to explain why they are there; that is what we mean by fiscal incentives. Secretary of State Wiebes has said that the amount may not have been that large and that it would therefore not yield very much. Nevertheless, I would like to do so. Can there be consultation with Secretary of State Wiebes on how he views this motion? Can we still hear that before the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u343	We may be able to redirect the stenogram to Secretary of State Wiebes with the request to respond in writing to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u344	This is a response to the amended motion, because my opinion on the motion as it has been tabled is quite clear: it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u345	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u346	If we change the text during the ride, it will be difficult. I do not rule out the fact that Secretary of State Wiebes remains with the same judgment, but I simply do not know. Then I come to the Van Tongeren motion on part No. 188, in which the government is asked to make the most of its commitment to a good locational environment. Oh, he's gonna take care of the minister. That's gonna save you. Soon I will come to the motion-Dik-Faber/Van Veldhoven on piece No. 289. Sorry, Chairman. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u347	We don't mind the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u348	That is the request to send a proposal to the Chamber to lift the immunity of the MP and return the bpm. I understand that this has also been the subject of today's debate and that the Secretary of State has indicated that there is no support for it, but he has left the same motion to the Chamber earlier. So I have no choice but to do that again in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u349	Does "judgment chamber" also mean that the motion is taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u350	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u351	Clear. But that still gives rise to a question from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u352	But this is specifically about the police vehicles. The motion before us today was very broad. It was also about other sectors, for example the taxi industry. This is really about a government agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u353	It's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u354	In the end, that doesn't matter, because the effect will be the same. That debate has been held before. The Secretary of State for Finance said what he said. He'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Dik-Faber can try again, but this is the same discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u355	Mr Madlener also wants to respond to this, even if it is not his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u356	This also has implications for the budget of the police, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u357	Or the Treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u358	Again, the verdict is up to the Chamber. The Secretary of State for Finance has previously indicated that there is no support, but that he would leave the opinion on such a proposal to the Chamber. That's what I'm holding on to. We must see how this is then appreciated in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u359	Then may I ask for a written reply? We have just been promised a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u360	Yeah, we're gonna do that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u361	I am also very curious to know what the Minister for Security and Justice thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u362	That sounds good to me. This is forwarded to the Secretary of State for Finance with the request to reply in writing to the question of the financial consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u363	Yes, in consultation with the Minister of V and J, I understand. I think that's fair. I like that. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Dik-Faber on part No. 190. It calls for the conversion factor of the CO emissions to be as close to zero as possible. That is indeed the aim. By the way, we are not going to make it to zero. We'll try to get close. For that reason, I could leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u364	Does this mean you're taking over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u365	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u366	Meet this resistance? Yeah? Then it will not be taken over and this motion will simply be voted on. That is not a problem; this is clearly laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u367	Then I come to the motion on part No. 191 in which the Government is invited to reduce the conformity factor for NO. I advise against this motion. I will do my best to reduce this factor of conformity as quickly as possible, and I have already said this in my contribution, Commissioner Bieńkowska, which follows that line. She has indicated that she wants to be on a factor 1 in 2023. This means the same emissions on the road as in the laboratory. The development of test equipment is more for the market and not for the government. I cannot promise that we will somehow contribute to these test equipment. I advise the motion not so much because of the purpose, but because of the discussion about the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u368	Very good. The motion in part No. 191 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u369	Yes. I come last but not least to what I would categorize as a "Pietje Bell" motion. It concerns Mr Smaling's motion. He himself said that she was a little more repulsive than the motion tabled by Mr Geurts. That's right, because what he's asking isn't really possible. In an internal market, Mr Smaling knows very well that such unilateral action is impossible. We cannot just stop cars from outside our own country at the border. The signal he wants to send is clear. However, the motion will die in beauty, because this proposal cannot become a reality. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u370	The motion in part No. 194 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u371	193!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u372	Sorry, 193.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u373	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address Mrs Van Veldhoven's question whether proposals can also be reported anonymously to the European Commission, or at least observations of omissions by individual type-approval organisations. The first step is, of course, that you go to the authority that made the type-approval. If the parties do not come forward, a report can indeed be made to the European Commission, after which the European Commission can play an intermediary role. Anonymous reporting can always, we can not forbid anyone to report anything anonymous. The intention was to report it to the party itself first. If you do not hear from that party, you can then ask the European Commission to mediate. The motion in part No. 182 is about enforcement at European level. I'm always a little worried that we're close together, but we're also talking past each other. I'm gonna keep trying anyway. If I interpret the motion in such a way that the EC itself will have to take samples again, I would advise against the motion because I am in favour of Member States taking samples first and then checking other Member States. I am in favour of European direction and accreditation and so on. However, I read here 'to advocate adequate supervision and enforcement at European level', which is multi-interpretable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u374	An explanation from Mrs Van Veldhoven, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u375	Of course, we are not going to anchor structural duplication in the system. I'll share that with the Minister. However, we think it is important that the European Commission should also be able to decide on a sample, for example when a signal has come from one of the national Member States that something is really not going well in a particular Member State which is taking that test. We want to create the opportunity to do so, but not to anchor structurally that the European Commission will always do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u376	Does this lead to a different opinion of the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u377	I understand that my colleague was just negotiating; I can do that right here. If we were to propose that the European Commission should then designate one of the other Member States to carry out this sample, in accordance with the proposal it is now making to allow other Member States to carry out samples. Following a signal, this could be added to the list already given and could be said: let the Dutch RDW take a look at the RDW of Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u378	Can the petitioner agree to this exegesis?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u379	What I think is important is that the European Commission should be able to carry out tests. By whom do I leave all the way in the middle? We do not need to create a separate new body for this. If that is the Minister's concern, it can be taken away as far as I am concerned. I think the anonymity of the signal is very important in this respect, because it concerns such great interests. We don't have to be naive about that. Can the European Commission then ask one of the other RDWs without the country in question knowing who controls it? In view of all the sensitivities, I would like the Commission to have the opportunity to ask for control tests independently, regardless of who is carrying them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u380	I welcome the addition by Mrs Van Veldhoven that she is not aiming for double-up. If the motion can be interpreted that way, I can take her over. What exactly the impact is going to be, is the debate at European level. In any case, my commitment will be: there must be opportunities for testing in response to notifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u381	Does one of the Members object to taking over the motion in item No. 182? Yes, that'll just put the motion to the vote. Mrs Visser also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u382	In order to avoid a kind of cow-trading about texts, but it is extremely relevant: there is a sheet, there is a position. I would like to know what the stakes are, because of the motion tabled by Mr Hoogland and Mrs Van Veldhoven, which is also linked to this. I want to be able to look at the whole thing, to hear the Minister's reaction to it and then just to vote. In fact, both motions are interrelated, so they are also interrelated as regards the form of judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u383	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u384	I assumed that this earlier motion had lapsed because of the motion that is now before us. So that's not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u385	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u386	According to the mores of the Chamber, a motion has been withdrawn only if it has been withdrawn. That has not yet been the case. We can think about merging for a while. For that we need one sheet of paper; at least that is good for the environment. The question is whether everything will come in; it will then become a very extensive motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u387	Since these motions overlap, I had assumed that. The first motion, which is not now on the agenda again, I had already advised against it in the first period on the basis of a number of elements. I have said of this motion: if I may interpret it in such a way that we do not do it twice, I see it as a support for policy, because we also want strengthened supervision and strengthened enforcement. So I'd like to take over. I understand that there is still a debate in the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u388	But that is not the issue at the moment. It is now a matter of motion in part No. 182, which is given to the Chamber, with the remark that it is simply going to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u389	Also the motion in part No. I can take over Mr Hoogland's 184 on the disclosure of software. The European Commission proposal on type-approval proposes access to software. That needs to be further worked out; that also fits with the word 'visit'. I indicated in the debate that I also consider it important, not only in the context of the environment and emissions, but also in the context of safety and traffic management in the future. Thinking of all intelligence transport systems it is also important to have this kind of information. How and what exactly I cannot say yet, but I can support the wording'seeing what we can possibly make public'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u390	Is there any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 184? That is the case, so she simply comes to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u391	Mrs Van Tongeren had tabled a motion to make maximum efforts to ensure that clean businesses are properly established. That motion is actually for the Minister of EZ. I had not answered her question about the manufacturing industry either. She mentioned the South Netherlands. Although we only produce cars on a limited scale in the Netherlands, such as the MINI in Born, there is a decent automotive industry. You can also find a lot of that in the south of the country. Tesla's in Tilburg and MINI in Born. A company like NXP Semiconductors is located around Eindhoven. Helmond is also profiling with the Automotive Campus. In addition, I am very active in promoting self-driving cars, which in turn lead to much less fuel consumption, accidents and so on. I'm already trying to do that in the regulations. My colleague from EZ is committed to stimulating companies that have a high priority for sustainability. For example, he looks at how they can be helped by improving regulations that, for example, create barriers to re-use. This motion is very broad. I think the motion says what the Minister of EZ is already doing. I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. I have mentioned a few positive examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u392	Is the Minister taking over this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u393	No, I said I'd leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u394	Yeah, but that can be followed by takeover. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u395	That's right. I would like to say that the motion is superfluous because we are already doing it, and I would like to point out the green deals and such, but I tried to do it nicely and therefore left the judgment to the Chamber. She can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u396	The judgment on the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 188 is therefore left to the Chamber. She's just gonna be in a mood. Mr Madlener has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u397	Yes, because I want to be able to assess whether I can give a positive vote to my group and therefore have a question for the author. GroenLinks wants to bring BMW, Hyundai and KIA to the Netherlands to produce cars, but all car manufacturers are working on modern technology. There won't be a manufacturer who says he'll stick to the old one. With this motion, I assume GroenLinks says that as many car manufacturers as possible have to come to the Netherlands to produce. If so, I think it would be a fine motion. I can hardly imagine that from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u398	I see this is gonna be a little chat in the walkways. Mrs Van Tongeren is undoubtedly prepared to explain, but that will be a bit difficult in this setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u399	Shall I just say on behalf of Mrs Van Tongeren that she would probably say 'only if it is clean'? I've known her for a while! The Geurts/Van Veldhoven motion in part No. 192 concerns type-approval and the provision of technical solutions. Mr Geurts' concern is that an organization that did not see anything at first should now take care of the technical solution. Trust that these kinds of organisations are professional organisations that should be able to do so. The KBA currently approves the cars that after a recall provide new hard and software. The CBA should always report abnormalities. For the time being, I think that is the right route. If we have the new rules, other countries can also take another test. I am not going to do similar tests in the Netherlands, because there is now no legal basis for this. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u400	The motion in part No. 192 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u401	The Smaling motion in part No. 193, the "Pietje Bell" motion, has just been dealt with by the Secretary of State. We're not gonna do that again. Mr Madlener asked a question following an article in the German magazine Auto Motor und Sport. Tonight we bought that magazine and read the article in question. The RDW says that it is almost impossible to test this data for truth because these tests are not standardized. The RDW also read the article and says that it shows that there is almost no "something" difference in the exact wording. However, we must not draw any conclusions, either negative or positive, because they are not standardized tests. That is my answer to Mr Madlener's question. I may not have to send another letter on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u402	The article shows that consumption increased from 5.2 litres to 5.7 litres per 100 kilometres. That's a hell of a lot more consumption. That's not just anything! It's a pretty good percentage more. You either bribe a car there or you leave it there. It's about actual costs. If that is the case, motorists will have to face considerable additional costs in the years when they have to fill that car with diesel. So I think the Minister is getting over this very easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u403	Again, it is impossible to test the data for truth. It is a test in practice and then it depends very much on how you drive, where you drive and how you do it. There is therefore no point in carrying out a test on one article in one German magazine. The article also indicates that there is almost no difference in total. So you can't draw a conclusion from that. Mr Madlener also asked whether the consumer's consent was required in the case of a software update. There is no obligation for dealers to request permission for a software update. That's what I thought when I just answered that question, but I'm willing to do something for him. I would ask the Dutch importer of Volkswagen for him to communicate this explicitly with the customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u404	Mr Madlener is now going to thank the Minister kindly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u405	I thank the Minister for her good intentions, but in combination with the answer that it would only be a minor difference, it does not help the customer much. The client must be given honest information. The customer just needs to know what that software update means. A higher consumption of 5.2 to 5.7 litres is a significant cost for the customer. Then he'll make a very different decision. I'm afraid I can't settle for this. However, I attach particular importance to further research by the Netherlands researcher.......................................................................................................................................................................................... It can't be that the customer is sent away with nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u406	As far as the update is concerned, I have already said that Volkswagen has indicated that there are no consequences for the motorist. The CBA has also indicated that there are no deviations. That's not based on one test by one car sheet. That's based on a variety of tests. I think the whole world's on top of it, because nothing's more fun than looking at those test data. So that's what we have to assume. In principle, there is no disadvantage for the customer. Next, the question is whether the customer wants that update. I don't know what reason he wouldn't want it, but maybe he doesn't want it. That's his choice. Because you don't have to. Is it gonna happen if your car gets laid? Yes, you will, but you will not be informed. I now propose to ask Volkswagen to do so explicitly and to see if that is possible. I think the customer can decide whether he wants it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u407	We're almost in agreement, so I'll make one last attempt. The customer must be able to choose for himself, but the customer must also know what it means. The minister says it doesn't mean anything and that the car isn't going to use anymore. It is therefore blindly relying on the German authorities. I trust them a little less, because there is a great interest from Germany. However, I would like to agree that if the Minister gets signals from other sources that there could be more consumption, she will immediately get in touch with the car manufacturer and the importer to inform the customer about the increase in consumption and to compensate for the additional costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u408	I'm not going to compensate for any costs anyway. If there are costs, Volkswagen will. If we find omissions, the first thing I do is go to the CBA and ask how. After all, that said that it is so good. After that we will undoubtedly have contact with the importer in the Netherlands. In the end, however, we must be at the source itself, at Volkswagen in Germany and its type-approval. In the motion in part No. 194 the government is asked to clarify and propose solutions to gaps in Article 5.2, while maintaining standards and encouraging innovation, and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. I would like to take over that motion, because I myself intend to get to work on it. I'd like to go to the Chamber and find out which elements are in there. I would also like to inform the Chamber about the process of finally getting directions from the Chamber before we start negotiations on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u409	In the case of one of the Members, is there any objection to taking over the motion in respect of item No. 194? That's the case. Then the motion will just be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-04-12-tweedekamer-30.u410	I would like to thank you all for your commitment and interest. Thank you for your input and for your reply. I also thank the support, not to mention. The votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday, Deo volente. I wish you all a happy ending of the evening after an evening of work.
