ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	We have nine speakers on the list with four minutes' speaking time per speaker. As the first speaker, I would like to invite Mrs Leijten from the SP. In the meantime, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State and the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Four years ago, the Secretary of State spoke here for the first time. We dealt with the 2013 budget. He introduced his parents, needy and vulnerable. That motivated him to go into politics, to ensure good care. Two years later, they were in the papers. That was really painful. But it also led to the best debate I've ever had with the Secretary of State. He recognised in that debate that good care begins with sufficient and well-trained staff. He acknowledged that signals of lagging quality should not be called an incident. He was gonna do three things. Stop the frontrunners in a gideon gang and use good examples to try to lift the sector to a higher level. The program Dignity and pride soon followed. He also said that the inspection had selected 150 stragglers to follow them for a long time. To safety, but certainly also to the strength to improve themselves. In 2014, we weren't allowed to know who was on the list. We know that by now. He received the third point from the Chamber: provide for an occupation standard for staff made on the basis of a directive by the sector itself, the professions, and use that standard as the basis for purchasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	I actually thought that Mrs Leijten of the SP would apologize today on behalf of the SP, for the statements made yesterday about completed life. The SP suggested that the cabinet would want to help older people die, because that would be better for the cabinet because of the austerity policy. Mrs Marijnissen also used the word 'degradation policy'. Now we can have a difference of opinion on older people's policies. We can have a difference of opinion about completed life. But the fact that those two things are linked, I find reprehensible. I therefore ask Mrs Leijten to apologise and to renounce the statements made last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	I believe that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr President, I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	I would like to give Mrs Agema the opportunity to make a point of order. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	I would like to make a point of order and propose that the issue of life completed should not be included in today's debate. It is very clever that Minister Schippers threw that bomb into the arena yesterday to overshadow what we are discussing today. The Secretary of State has lost control. We all have to talk to our groups about how to deal with this. I would therefore like to suggest that the issue of life completed should not be included in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	I will make sure that this debate is about what it should be about. Mrs. Bergkamp is in charge of the relationship. In any case, I would like to give Mrs Leijten the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr President, I would like to respond to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, I didn't give you the floor. On a point of order, the President responds, not the members. I think it's important that I keep order here. Mrs. Agema made her point. I am making sure that we have the debate we should be having. If a member makes the relationship, I will allow it, but I will guard that the debate continues on the quality of nursing home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr President, if I may, I support Mrs Agema's plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	It's been noted. Mrs Leijten, you want to answer me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	I don't see in any way why I should apologize. The social context of a subject is always there. That observation is allowed to make a human being. People are free to do that. It's free for groups. So I don't see why I should apologize. Today, I have a bone to settle with the Secretary of State, who does not carry out an elected chamberal motion. D66 was not for sufficient staff in nursing homes. That's right. D66 did not support that motion, nor did the VVD, but it was adopted and nothing was done with it. I think that's one thing! Since the Secretary of State said in the very first debate in this Chamber that he is motivated because he knows, precisely from his personal situation, the vulnerability of old age, I think that a good debate should be held here. That is precisely about the quality of care for the elderly, about the under-staffing of staff, about the fact that there can't be going to the bathroom and there can never be a chat. See last Monday's investigation. Let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	I see that Mrs Leijten does not renounce the statements made yesterday, in which the SP itself made the link between completed life and the quality of care for the elderly. As far as I am concerned, yesterday the SP collapsed in terms of integrity, but I think it is particularly acidic and disrespectful for those who want more room for self-determination that the SP has put these two issues together. What happened yesterday, I find Mrs Leijten unworthy, the SP unworthy. I would like to ask Mrs Leijten once again to distance herself from those statements. Otherwise, I really think that yesterday a border of integrity was violated. I would very much regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	I think it's big words. In the opinion of the Schnabel Committee, I read: the desire of a small group can increase pressure for a large group. If you really suffer physically and mentally, there are possibilities through the euthanasia law. That's why the committee recommended not to do it. The Minister is now proposing to do so. That is what we are going to debate, but I also see that we must not deny that there is a great cry from people who say: if I cannot live my old age worthy, then it is no longer necessary for me. So these two things are absolutely linked. I am absolutely not saying that this is the motivation, but they are part of the same social context.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have to let these words come to me. Doesn't Mrs Leijten think it is really tacky to link the very complicated discussion about people who have completed their lives and who have to make a difficult assessment to care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	No, I think they're connected. They're partly related, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Let it be clear: not only do I find it tasteless, I find it utterly disgusting what the SP is doing here, really disgusting. I really don't have any words for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mrs Leijten, would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	I have already said that there is a very thick report by the Schnabel Committee, which, following a debate on life completed here, has delivered an opinion. He says, "Don't do it." The Minister will do it. We are going to have that debate, but look at the social context of how we deal with old age, how we position the elderly when it comes to income, whether they can participate in society and whether sufficient care is available if necessary. It's all part of the game, I'm sure it is. It's not separate. It's not a one-on-one relationship either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	Unlike D66, GroenLinks did support the motion on more staff in the care sector. Our signature was also under the motion. At the same time, I do think that if more people actually come into care, that nothing will change the desire of some of the people to say: I get good care, have a dear family, but my life is completed, my life is now ready; I would like to have the choice to choose a worthy death. Does Mrs Leijten share the view that, even if the care is perfect, these people will be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	I think so, too. That's what the Schnabel Committee says. Creating the possibility for a small group wishing to do so can be a pressure increase for a large group. Then you come to the question: will you do that? The Schnabel Committee says: we recommend not to do so. Let us, above all, have that debate. I think that we should have that debate when we get that bill, but we should now also talk about why it is not possible to have sufficient staff available in the care of the elderly and to ensure a dignified old age. We can create a program Dignity and pride, but if we don't provide enough staff, then it's just a glossy leaflet. As far as I am concerned, that is what the debate is about today. I also had no intention of mixing the debate with yesterday's news today. That is not in my text and I have not prepared any interruptions. Mrs Bergkamp may do that, but I did not do that today. I am concerned about the implementation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mrs. Voortman can finish her interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u24	As far as I am concerned, the debate must indeed be about how to improve care for the elderly. But when you so clearly link the possibility for people to choose a voluntary end of life, in a careful way, and the cabinet policy, you mix the two with each other. However, I am glad that Mrs Leijten also says that there are people who, no matter how well organised the care would be, have this wish and that it does not coincide entirely one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u25	I note that the still very high suicide rates show that there are more people with that desire. I wish we could make death for everyone as worthy as they deserve. But today's debate is, as far as I am concerned, really about the implementation of the motion on staffing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u26	I bite my tongue, but I share the analysis that today's debate should be about the quality of nursing care. This debate has been requested by Mrs Leijten because she believes that the motion, which we have supported and which includes our name, has not been carried out. Can I ask her now whether she does not wish to continue this relationship in any way in her speech? I would point out that if she sends tweets with some of her future colleagues the night before in which she does put this relationship, it is very unbelievable if she now says that she does not. Can we now please have the debate on what it should be about? Indeed, I share Mrs Bergkamp's analysis that saying that she is not connecting them is very unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u27	I do not do that in this debate. If you say that last night's social context is part of this debate, you are doing exactly the same thing as you accuse me of using the social context when I see a Minister's plan on television.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u28	No, you do. You will send a tweet linking both topics. I think that's really sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u29	Yeah, I think they're connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u30	Fine, but you should not say that you only want to have this debate about nursing care sec. You are linking two themes in your tweet and you are saying that this is not the way we want to conduct the debate. If you wish to continue with the debate on your motion and the way in which it has been implemented or not, we can now discuss it. However, you make the combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u31	I find it amazing that what I tweeted last night would be my speech today. I also retweeted this morning, for example, that the waiting lists in mental health care really create problems. Is that now being dragged into the debate because I did so? It's very easy to shake no now. If everything you say outside this Chamber is also spoken in debates in this Chamber, then we will make it very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mrs Bergkamp, would you like to make a comment on this subject or do you have another comment on Mrs Leijten's contribution? After all, I suggest that we try to make a cut here. It's hard, and I also understand that it's hard to keep these two things apart, because the world doesn't stop when you get up in the morning. It may be a new day, but then that is what you did yesterday, also present. However, I would suggest that we do not do so now in this debate. So finally, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u33	You don't know what I'm asking, Mr. Chairman. If I want to explain that, I might as well put the question to Mrs Leijten right away. I support Mrs Volp's speech. I find it unbelievable what Mrs Leijten says. However, Mrs Leijten also said in her speech that D66 is not for more staff in nursing homes. That's bullshit. We never said that. We just do not support an occupation standard, just like the organisation for nurses and nurses, the VVD and the PVV, because we are more for diversity. We believe that one standard can be detrimental and does not respect the diversity and customisation that needs to be delivered. I would like to distance myself from Mrs Leijten's remark that we are not in the care of more staff. This is another example of the SP of lying and not telling the truth. I thought it was important to have said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u34	Speaking of big words. The third point in the debate was given to the Secretary of State of the Chamber: ensure an occupation standard in terms of staff. It must follow from a directive and will form the basis for the procurement of care. That standard didn't come through. Negotiated at the table where employers and health insurance companies had no sense of dealing with the problem of staff shortages. Why did the Secretary of State let this important point slip out of his hands? Good and safe care starts with sufficient staff. An ambulance won't drive if there's no nurse sitting next to the driver. Surgery's not gonna happen if there's not enough staff. Drivers complain that it's all difficult, difficult, but 2013 research shows that as many as 46% of people working in nursing homes have a contract of less than 24 hours. If the employers were to start giving more hours, we'd have extra people on the floor. Research conducted on research carried out on the basis of research carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried out on the basis of a study carried The absenteeism in care and nursing homes is the highest of all labour sectors in our country. Then you're gonna do something? Half an hour waiting for a toilet and never a chat: this week we heard that from the mouth of residents in the nursing home. Once again, the Secretary of State is absent, although this has been known for years. We know this Secretary of State as a man of haste and ambition. In a few years' time, he completely turned home and youth services upside down. He closed down nursing homes and introduced the failing trekking right of the pgb. Hurry, hurry, hurry. But with the occupation standard, he doesn't make any movement. How credible does the Secretary of State still think he is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u35	We have been informed about their progress in various progress reports. In the AO's, Mrs Leijten didn't say anything that didn't make any sense. In view of the finish, a party has withdrawn. Then what's the Secretary of State doing wrong? Mrs Leijten is right to say that one of the parties is not moving in the end. What exactly does she think is going wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u36	The motion we have tabled has been endorsed by the Labour Party. The predecessor of Mrs Volp, Otwin van Dijk, said: make that standard with the professions. The fact that the Secretary of State is putting employers and health insurers at the table is already a mistake. It would be there before the summer of 2015. It became December 2015, it became spring 2016, and several times I asked the Secretary of State to continue: difficult, difficult, difficult. He just organized it away. By the way, it was already known before the summer that it would not be an occupation standard but a conversation guide, so you can ask for extra colleagues if you are understaffed. That really hasn't worked in years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u37	The V&VN and the Dutch Patient Federation indicate that the guidance that is now available is a better basis than a flat line-up standard. Mrs Leijten herself said in a consultation in June 2015 to a question from Mrs Agema that she was in favour of a differentiated approach, whereby the sector and staff themselves would have to look at how many people should be at what time. This is there now. One of the parties withdraws. The Secretary of State has continuously shared this process with the Chamber, at different times in progress reports. Then where's he doing it wrong? He picks it up now and says to the Healthcare Institute: take over, make sure there's something on 1 January. Work is already being started according to the guidance considered good by the V&VN and the Patient Federation. Then what goes wrong with Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u38	The guide is in no way a back-up for staff who ask for additional colleagues. It's just questions, which is: no you have and yes you can get. With an occupation standard, it's different. Like I said, the ambulance won't drive if there's no nurse sitting next to the driver. Surgery's off if there aren't enough O.K. nurses. Why do we allow this in the care of the elderly? That must be the question. I have understood the request for advice from the Healthcare Institute in such a way that it is only a quality directive, without staffing. We produce so much paper, so much paper! But no co-worker came around.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mrs. Volp, you want to do an interruption in threes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u40	If that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u41	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u42	Then I'll bet a new interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u43	I think that is a good thing, but I would ask you to ask a short question and I would ask Mrs Leijten to reply briefly. You take a lot of time for your questions and answers. I would therefore ask you to keep it brief and concise. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u44	I'm gonna ask you a quick question. So you know better than the V&VN and the Patient Federation Netherlands who believe that this is the basis of good personnel policy? So you know better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u45	I find it inexplicable that the association for nurses and nurses says: well, there doesn't need to be a standard for sufficient staff on the basis of which you can deliver quality. I find that really inexplicable. I find it inexplicable for her to say that. There are two types of...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u46	No, Mrs Leijten, you would reply briefly and succinctly. You are going to stand firm for it, but I would ask you to remain brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u47	I didn't get an answer to my question. So you know better and you don't trust the V&VN? You say, "I don't get it, and that's why it's not good." I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u48	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u49	It's not a standard, it's a guide. You can ask for extra staff and you get a few tips for that, but if the driver says "sorry, but we don't," it's off. So it's not a standard. I don't know what you read, but it's not execution of the motion. If the Secretary of State had taken care of the implementation of the motion, he would have said to this organization that should stand up for the overloaded staff, that it should draw up a standard. I also understand that this standard must be differentiated, because there are large nursing homes and small housing groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mrs Leijten, are you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u51	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u52	Then I would like you to resume your speech and to communicate with the President in the future. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u53	In April 2011, the Gunning Commission advised on the "two pair of eyes" principle in child care. After the great scandal at Het Hofnarretje it was said that someone should no longer stand alone on a group. This is required by law as of January 2013. There are 12,000 sites for childcare and there are 2,342 locations for elderly care. Why can it be done in childcare, but not in care for the elderly? CareAccent in the east of the country shows that it can and that it has to. I call on the Secretary of State to follow the standard she lays down. On a group of eight residents, there must be two people in the awake hours, so that someone can safely go to the toilet, there is time for attention and volunteers and family members can get a good place, without leaving staff and without leaving residents to their fate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mr. Chairman. This debate must be about the quality of care in our nursing homes two years after Mr Oude Nijhuis' utter distress. There is not yet a beginning of an improvement. Dehydration, malnutrition, lying wounds, drugging, bonding or faking are the order of the day. In fact, the houses that had it well for each other are now sinking through the bottom as well. Things have changed recently, though. Since the publications of the blacklist with the worst performing nursing homes, the Secretary of State who could not fall has lost his friends in the field. The ActiZ's of this world, who agreed to shut down the nursing homes without further ado, the virtually complete elimination of daily spending and the substantial cuts in community nursing and care, are now angry, because Van Rijn dared to reveal the blacklist. How dare he? It is about image and so Van Rijn loses his authority at a fast pace. He's getting out of control. His friends back then refused to provide information on basic safety to the inspection under the direct responsibility of the Secretary of State. Angry carebodies playing political games about the backs of elderly demented people who are classically dripping down with a round of Haldol in the coffee. We also believe that three quarters of the administration can be removed from care, but this does not apply to the provision of information to the inspection of basic safety. That information is about, for example, drugging, bonding, malnutrition, dehydration and ligature wounds. On the contrary, these data say a great deal about the quality of care. They say almost everything about staff pressure, because almost all the quality problems in care are due to the shortage of staff. Putting that information into blackmail is unacceptable. Yesterday ActiZ chose eggs for his money after the fuss. They're back in their booth. But for how long? You really don't want to have angry careboys against you. A resident who's restless doesn't give you droplets in the coffee, and you don't tie them up either. No, you pay attention to them with plenty of colleagues. The Secretary of State's gonna let it happen. He's standing there looking at it. A resident who can no longer eat and drink on his own must be helped. This Secretary of State is making it happen. There's not enough staff. If, after more than a year, you face a quality framework full of open doors and vagueties, the courage will fall into your shoes. This secretary of state is here. When's he gonna take back control? It seems so simple: good care, nothing more and nothing less. Good care is provided with colleagues, not without them. Good care comes with well-educated, motivated colleagues. More and more trained personnel are needed. That's what the Agema money was once meant for. For 600 million euros we had 12,000 extra employees, but with the Kunduz agreement they could get back on their feet. Our law on rights for residents of institutions......................................................................................................................... Leijten's line-up standard sounds good... fair is fair... but I'm not comfortable with it. She refers to the standard in child care. Living groups in care for the elderly, however, are not nearly as homogeneous as those in childcare. There, moreover, the standard of two leaders in eight to twelve children is being tampered with. I am therefore afraid that Leijten's standard of two nurses out of eight residents is far too often too little. This brings with it irresponsible risks. Once again, the Secretary of State was completely out of control. But then there's always one person throwing him a lifeboat: Minister Schippers. What timing! To be jealous of it. Just when Van Rijn threatens to go under, she throws the bomb of completed life into the arena. Brilliant. But for how long was Van Rijn saved?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mrs. Agema, we had a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'm not going into the substance of it. Colleagues can fly out of their seats, but I only note that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mrs Agema, you yourself made a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u58	I'm not going into the substance of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u59	I suggest you continue your reading and just skip this piece on other legislative proposals. I'm not gonna allow any interruptions at this point. We agreed we wouldn't talk about it. I think it would be wise not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u60	Van Rijn has to work on his promise for better nursing care and for extra hands on the bed. He should not only come up with planned additional austerity jokes, but instead arrange extra money. Take care of it! Get in control or get out of here. Do not let the weakest suffer from care bobos who have more affinity with their image than with their elderly, dementing residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. Over the past week, the quality and future of nursing home care have again been widely present in the media. Several letters came from the Secretary of State and from all kinds of interest groups. The field has been talking for a long time about a quality framework and about a guidance staff composition following the motion of the SP. The concrete result remains after a year of consultation and the CDA finds that disappointing. The CDA voted in favour of the SP motion because the CDA considers it important that this is developed and supported by the sector itself. But it didn't work out. What does this mean for the consultation in the care polder? After all, the Secretary of State attaches great importance to the consultation with and through the field. What does he think of the situation that has arisen? Is there still a shared interest, namely the improvement of nursing care? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Now the problem lies with the Healthcare Institute. That will use his perseverance and take the lead. That's interesting. The Healthcare Institute will provide the first quality framework on 1 January. I'm assuming this includes the personnel composition guide. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. Can the Secretary of State outline the period up to 1 January? So, what's the plan of the Healthcare Institute? What does the director look like? What happens after 1 January if there are field parties that cannot agree to this? The Secretary of State knows that I often plead for fewer rules in health care. To what extent can the Secretary of State undertake today to the CDA that this impasse of the field and the role of the Healthcare Institute will not lead to more tick-off lists? Then I come to the themes and the question of the Health Inspectorate about basic safety. Six themes are measured. I list them: psychopharmaceuticals, the application of freedom-limiting agents and measures, infection prevention, fire safety, oral care and last but not least, steering on safety. What does that last criterion mean? I wonder in what sense that is more than the other things I just mentioned. By the way, are there any new questions here? Then we read that the industry organisation has become unclear about the questioning and the publication. I read a few minutes ago that they're out. That's good, but shouldn't the industry organisation's attitude have been more solution-oriented rather than problem-oriented? What has the Secretary of State done to prevent the situation of the last few weeks, which I did not like?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Chairman. It was escalated between ActiZ and the inspection and thus between ActiZ and the Secretary of State. The result was a data boycott. Today we could read that it seems to have been solved. That is of course good, but I think it is good to ask the Secretary of State for a reflection on that, because this has caused a lot of unrest and angry people. It has also derived from what it really should be about, namely the quality of nursing homes. So I would like to have a clear answer to the question of what happened there. It is disappointing that there is no quality framework or guidance for nursing homes that is agreed. This would have been an opportunity for the sector to take a real step. It also surprised me that it took so long. Now the Healthcare Institute is picking it up. The Secretary of State has already communicated this to the Chamber. What process and what planning does the Secretary of State see ahead of him? Does he take more direction in that? We were not very satisfied with the quality framework, the concept. We didn't think it was concrete enough. There was once again the threat that they would come up with tick-off lists, but basic safety - I repeat - must of course be in order. This should include concrete indicators. However, we do not want spreadsheet reality. I also missed other important topics such as intimacy and sexuality. How does the Secretary of State view this quality framework and the comments I have made? The sector did not want an occupation standard, because there are too many hooks and eyes on it. The fraction of D66 can follow that. Without ActiZ and Zorgverzekerings Nederland, the association for caregivers and nurses and the patient organisations have presented the staff composition guide. Yet here too, the Healthcare Institute will use its perseverance power. Why can't the guide be rolled out wide already? I think there are some pilots and experiments and D66 believes that we really need to continue with that. I would like to make another point, but it seems that Mrs Voortman wishes to make a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u63	I'm looking at Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u64	I doubted whether I would wait until the end of Mrs Bergkamp's speech, but now that I have the floor... I hear Mrs Bergkamp say that she can follow the resistance of nursing homes to the occupation standard. I found that Mrs Leijten was right to ask why it can be done in childcare and not in nursing care. I'd like to hear what D66 thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u65	I think Mrs Agema has explained this well in an earlier debate. You can say that children are a bit alike, although I might do a little violence to the children. In nursing care there is a lot of diversity such as the weight of the clients, the furnishing of the nursing home, the number of floors and so on. I think it is important that we listen in politics to the people who have to work with it in practice. These are the nurses and nurses and they say that a flat line-up standard will not work. They want more diversity and a more differentiated approach. That can track D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u66	On the contrary, there are many caregivers who do argue in favour of it. They say: a standard could at least help us. You'll have a frame that you can work on. Of course, there can always be exceptional situations in which something else has to be arranged, but a rule of thumb, a framework, would be quite logical, wouldn't it? If you say nothing at all, what guarantee do the people who work the leplazarus every day have in the care that there are enough colleagues to do the hard work they have to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u67	I would like reality to be so makable and easy that we can solve the problem with a standard. I don't believe in that, and neither do the nurses and nurses. I do believe in diversity. A guide has now been developed. People have been working on this for a long time and there is support for the patient organisations and the nurses and caregivers. That is why I believe that we should now work with this. We need to evaluate this carefully and see if this offers a solution. That would be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u68	Last year there was a big action: Save the Care. Then more than a million signatures were collected. One of the requirements in that action was: make an occupation standard. This demand was supported by many people working in the care of the elderly. Of course it must be appropriate, but they want to have something in their hands to show that they obviously have too few colleagues to provide safe and good care. The Secretary of State promised to let the FNV talk, but he hasn't spoken to the organization. Does Mrs. Bergkamp think that's neat?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u69	In preparation for this debate, I looked at how the Secretary of State informed us about this. He has taken us in several letters in that whole process of leaving the sector and the industry. Now the sector is failing, and now the Healthcare Institute is going to do it. I find, and I support Mrs Leijten in that, that it has gone on for a very long time. I support Mrs Leijten in that, but we think differently about this line-up standard. I do agree that there is currently a mismatch between the question of care, so what people need, and the composition of staff. In nursing homes with severely demented people, the situation is really different than it was ten years ago. There really is a mismatch with the composition of staff. That is why I tabled a motion on this subject earlier, partly on behalf of Mrs Voortman and the groups of the SGP and the Christian Union. I held that motion. So I'll share that with Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u70	A million people recognized themselves in the demand that at least there should be a standard for the staff. The motion states that the professions must draw up them. The Secretary of State had this 'negotiated' at the negotiating table, while we had to have a debate here after debate to rush youth care over the blade, shut down nursing homes and introduce pgb withdrawal rights. Hurry, hurry, hurry! Now the Secretary of State has nothing. Does D66 think that's credible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u71	I am somewhat repeating myself, but I agree with Mrs Leijten that it has been a long time. However, even in the motion, Mrs Leijten called for the sector to come up with something. However, the sector says that it sees nothing in a flat line-up standard. I believe that the Chamber should listen to this and respectfully look at what the sector is going to come up with. Then we'll have to try it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mrs Leijten, I suggest that you simply correct the misunderstanding and not ask a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u73	The motion doesn't say "the sector." It says: the professions. It is precisely them, because they make the quality standards everywhere in care. Then there's just a staff member. You don't do surgery without a nurse's staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u74	I think this has clarified the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u75	So the sector is not: the employers or the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u76	No, Mrs Leijten, I did not give you the floor to make an argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u77	I would like to respond to Mrs Leijten: it is indeed about the professions. The professions have considered that a flat occupation standard is not going to work. I do not need to finish my comment on the guidelines because of the interruption. I'll start with another subject. It would be a real gain if we could take a step in that today. In the new research of V&VN (Nursing and Nursing Netherlands) you can see that the workload in nursing homes is unimaginable and that this is partly caused by the registration pressure. There is too much administration, which sometimes has nothing to do with the quality of care. Take recording the temperature of the refrigerator or double recording, on paper and also in the computer, and justify it from minute to minute what you're doing, even when you want to take a break. You need to check when you've washed someone and record how much time you've spent reading reports. Think also of the endless scoring lists. This is mortally sinful of the capacity of nurses and caregivers, i.e. the hands on the bed. I therefore urge the Secretary of State to distance himself and say goodbye to this administrative request for data that does not contribute to the quality and safety of care. I'm also asking the Secretary of State if the Healthcare Institute can intervene. I do not think this subject is political at all. Everyone in the Chamber wants that rule pressure to be reduced. It would be today's profit if we could really take a step in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u78	The CDA has made several motions and made proposals to delete rules. The rule for the temperature of the meatballs, to name but a few, is one of them. I hear Mrs Bergkamp say the same now. One of the six cases asked out by IGZ, which ActiZ said had difficulty with, is oral care. Do I understand correctly Mrs Bergkamp that this part of the list of issues asked for in relation to D66 should be deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u79	I didn't understand the word Mrs Keijzer said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u80	"Mundane care."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u81	I didn't find this part in the list I got back from V&VN. So it's hard for me. I am concerned that there has to be a question to do with the quality and safety of care. I'm not a nurse, so I can't answer that question here. I gave some examples to show that nurses and nurses have to register and administer too much. They think so, too. Let's take a step together today. Mrs Keijzer has already said, in my opinion, that this is not a political issue. The Secretary of State should finally take the step to say goodbye to unnecessary regulatory pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u82	I have just mentioned the six themes asked by IGZ: psychopharmaceuticals, application of anti-freedom drugs, infection prevention, fire safety, control of safety and oral care. We're all constantly saying that rules need to be deleted. That doesn't do you much good if you don't tell which ones to delete. In view of Mrs Bergkamp's plea just now, I ask her if she thinks that questioning the oral question is no longer necessary. If you don't ask out, you don't have to register.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u83	I remember my maiden speech here was about the oral care of people in nursing homes. At the time, I went into this together with Mrs Leijten, because this part is often neglected by nurses and nurses. So, as a non-nurse, I find it dangerous to respond to this. I would like to look into this and come back to it in the second term. I have here a whole list of examples of examples from practice, of nurses and nurses who say what to distance from and what not to keep scoring lists for every time. I would very much like to hang out with Mrs Keijzer to see which rules should be reduced, but I also think it is important to take the nurses and nurses very seriously, because we are Members of Parliament and are not so much health specialists as Mrs Volp as a general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u84	I would just like to make it very clear how D66 assesses ActiZ's attitude when suspending, as they call it, the basic safety lists. I fully agree that there should be less regulatory pressure, but we must provide a basic list. It is therefore a matter of very basic safety, as Mrs Keijzer also said. I would like to hear from D66 whether this is the way to reduce the number of lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u85	I believe that Mrs Volp's question has been overtaken by today's reality, because I understand that the Secretary of State and ActiZ have reached agreement on the provision of data. Let me be clear about that. I thought it was wrong of ActiZ not to provide that data. Basic safety must be absolutely in order. I also think that last time I got almost the whole Chamber over me that the previous process did not go very carefully. It has caused a lot of unrest among the people in nursing homes and the staff there. That's what I said. But that shouldn't be a reason not to give your data to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u86	I am very pleased with this clear position, but I would like to hear from D66 how it assesses the attitude of ActiZ: simply stop, after which an urgent consultation was initiated and then it was done. I do not think that does justice to the real reduction of regulatory pressure for the people who have to do it at the bed. This is something quite different than looking closely at the unnecessary check-off lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u87	I think I've been very clear. I'm glad there's a solution. I think that ActiZ's attitude is unwise and I reject it. I think that ActiZ should simply provide data to the inspection on basic safety. I think that is important, but I would like to point out that the previous process has gone carelessly. That's gonna have to be better next time. It's been escalated unnecessarily. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State how this turned out. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the last part of my story. Above all, let us provide enough skilled staff to cope with the complex need for care. I therefore held my motion on a concrete action plan pending the Secretary of State's plan. How's that going? Yesterday I was at a meeting in Wassenaar, where I saw the problems of nursing home directors with the conversion of their real estate so that the weather meets the requirements of this time. Does the Secretary of State want to pay attention to that? It's an opportunity to modernise nursing homes and real estate. I think the whole room has that wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr. Chairman. Again we are debating the issue of caring for our older people, as if they were a difficult cost. But we are really talking about our elders and grandparents, who have taken care of us for years. In return, this cabinet always comes up with cuts. GroenLinks wants to get rid of the frame that the costs of care for the elderly would be far too high. We want a different policy and more investment. Good care for the elderly costs money. That's what we can choose politically. Take the number of jobs in care. Instead of the 65,000 job cuts, GroenLinks wants 100,000 people. For example, there is time for real contact, a good conversation and a cup of coffee. That is why carers have chosen their work, rather than spending a lot of time reporting, writing things down or doing too many tasks at the same time. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, people's opinion and freedom of choice is crucial. They are perfectly able to indicate for themselves how they want to shape their lives, possibly in consultation with caregivers and family. If they want to eat a bite at another time or don't want to take a shower, there has to be room for that. They are not small children who have to live according to prescribed rules. The patients, their families and the caregivers are the most valuable in evaluating their care. I therefore voted in favour of this motion last July. Will this be set out in the guide on 1 January? What is the relation to other quality indicators? The Secretary of State has said that he will shape this with ZorgkaartNederland, but what progress has been made? How are nursing homes involved? I wonder where the caregivers are in this discussion. They are not being listened to enough. The examples of how workers experience the pressure of the past few years in the care sector are numerous. I do not know how many reports the FNV has written about it; too few colleagues, work that is getting heavier, with additional administrative tasks, so that staff cannot be on the job floor. How is it possible that one nursing home can provide good care, with sufficient staff, and the other nursing home can't? The differences are huge. How will the Secretary of State reduce these differences? A motion has also been adopted on this subject, but what is the state of play? What is the deadline for the first results? Nurses refuse to provide information to the Health Inspectorate. That is a very bad attitude. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? Did he see this coming and what does this say about the attitude of drivers in care? The Secretary of State says that the inspection with individual healthcare providers who do not disclose the information will request the information with all the steps associated with it. Can he tell us what those steps look like? What instruments is he going to use if this doesn't happen after all? Drivers who refuse to answer for their policies are, of course, a misrepresentation. This leads to shamelessly arguing over the heads of our elders, their relatives and the people who do the work. This unwillingness to be transparent gives the uncomfortable impression that one's own reputation is more important than good care for our elderly. That concern is precisely what nurses at nursing institutions should consider important. The Secretary of State indicated that he would not run away from a discussion about occupation and more staff and that he would have researched this in the Dignity and Proud Programme. However, practice shows that this is not enough. The under-employment in nursing homes, which I have already mentioned, really needs to be addressed in the short term. The Secretary of State sees many possibilities within institutions, such as removing unnecessary overhead. That is a view which my group strongly supports as a first step towards improving the situation. But is he really prepared to put a stop to this, because we have already had this discussion in the budgetary procedure, I think, 2013. How is this set out in the guide on 1 January? What role does the Healthcare Institute play in this? Older people need more care, time and attention. I ask the Secretary of State to make this a top priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr. Chairman. People in their old age, our fathers and mothers, deserve the very best care. It is precisely when life becomes difficult, when limitations prevail and people around you disappear, that it is important that there are people around you who give loving care and attention, partners, children, loved ones, employees in care. The unrest that has arisen today is not good for anyone, certainly not for those who need care, for their neighbors and for those who work hard every day to provide care and support. My question in all this unrest is: where is the Secretary of State? He's got to take the lead. It is incredibly sad that the discussions on the quality framework have ended for good care. It is precisely this quality framework that offers the opportunity to leave the check-off lists behind us and to put good care back at the centre of people's care, to restore confidence to the employees in the care. The Healthcare Institute now uses its perseverance power and starts working on the quality framework, including the staff composition guide. It is uncertain whether the Healthcare Institute will have a first review framework on 1 January 2017. What guarantee can the Secretary of State give for this? What is the Secretary of State's position in the coming months? It is important that we put the unrest behind us quickly. The Secretary of State's got a move, he's got to take the lead, connect and restore trust. People should be able to assume that basic safety and the quality of care in nursing homes are in order. We all know that there are nursing homes where the quality of care is inadequate and really needs to be improved. In order to measure this properly, it is necessary for the inspection to have data. It is therefore unacceptable that ActiZ refuses to provide data at the inspection. Of course, I recognize the signs from health care institutions that the publication of the blacklist has only led to more unrest rather than better care. In this respect, our words in the public debate also matter. But this should never be an excuse not to provide data. That only feeds the anxiety. A few minutes ago, I read that there seems to be a breakthrough in the consultation between ActiZ and the inspection. How is the Secretary of State gonna make sure ActiZ stays hooked? The review framework currently being developed by the Healthcare Institute will have to take into account much more the perspective of residents: from quality of care to quality of life. This includes mental care and attention to meaning. I miss this in the current quality framework and also in the staff composition guide. Previously, the Secretary of State made commitments on this matter. Is he going to make sure that mental care is taken? I'm considering a motion on this point. The staff composition guide has not become a blueprint, but a clear, qualitative framework with space for customization. I understand that the guidance has been limited in six institutions. That's gotta be better. How's the Healthcare Institute handling this? The guide should become the instrument by which care institutions can present themselves with a mirror, so that they can see where the organisation needs to improve. The guide is not without obligation. How's the Secretary of State gonna take care of that? In the end, we need a cultural change in nursing care. Have carers open the shutters. Organisations can proactively inform people about basic safety and quality of care by being transparent and reporting on the website. Then you are not only dependent on the judgment of the inspection. Organize peer review. There's no shame in learning from each other. Will the Secretary of State, ActiZ and V&VN, instruct them to work this out further? Give back the trust of care professionals. I want to get away from the fear culture, away from the ticking lists. Let the inspection also give a compliment to the staff on proven quality. And let caretakers also give the staff space. I want less inspection and more control. This also requires something from the care authorities. A quality framework of the Healthcare Institute will not work if the Secretary of State only listens to all parties. He just has to say, "That's how we're gonna do it." Everyone is looking at the Secretary of State to ensure that there is also a workable framework with support. It's on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party sees how hard work is being done to improve the quality in nursing homes, in nursing homes, on the bed. After the debate before the summer, I visited a number of houses which were included in the list of inspections in the highest risk category. I have seen how hard work is being done there to improve the issues of concern. I've seen that that's not easy and that a place on this list doesn't say one-on-one what about quality. I've seen how bad it is for clients, staff and drivers to see how flattered the discussion about this is often. This is at the expense of residents, who are generally very satisfied. And it is at the expense of staff, that the work is done with heart and soul. Last week the message came out that the sector did not come out with the development of a shared quality framework and staff guidance. That happened in plain sight of the finish line. In the eyes of the V&VN and the Patient Federation Netherlands, there are two pieces that can really contribute to a quality stroke, but ActiZ withdrew and passed on the delivery of basic quality data to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u91	I have a question about the first part of Mrs Volp's story. I am glad that Mrs Volp nuances or at least indicates that it has a lot of impact on a nursing home if it is on such a list. I remember the previous debate. I said, "God, I don't think it's been careful." And I remember Mrs Volp's attack on me on this point. Does Mrs Volp now think differently, given that she visited a number of nursing homes this summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u92	Visiting the houses and talking there has nuanced my weighting on that list. The provision of basic safety quality data is necessary. I indicated at the time before the debate that as far as I am concerned, the publication of the list was not necessary. I did that precisely to prevent it from causing unnecessary unrest and damage. Indeed, I see that we need to conduct this debate carefully. The course of that debate and the way in which the inspection has dealt with the information of the houses had to be improved. Talks were also made about this in the summer, but let me be very clear: that is no reason for ActiZ to suspend the delivery of these basic data now. I'm glad ActiZ realized that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mrs. Bergkamp,... finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u94	Well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u95	I actually wanted to say to you that we need to be brief, but I was thinking that I should ask Mrs Volp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u96	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u98	I am pleased that, contrary to the debate we had earlier, Mrs Volp says that care is very important in the data. Does Mrs Volp agree with me that statements by the Chamber can be quite tricky? When we talk about blacklists and the closure of nursing homes on that list, doesn't the Chamber do any more bad than good?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u100	That's a nice short answer. You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u101	Fine. This retreating movement stopped a process in which the field parties themselves were working and made real progress to improve the quality of care, including guidance for sufficient and sufficiently qualified staff. The Secretary of State has now transferred this stalled process to the Zorginstituut with a clear mandate before 1 January. Now the Zorginstituut gets to work and rounds off what the field was already on its way; they had the finish in sight. I think that people in the houses should assume that the basic quality and safety in those houses are in order. As I said in the previous debate: in the 11, 150 and all houses. The inspection list showed that it wasn't all right. Improvements were needed and fortunately have already started. You need to be transparent about that data. Mr President, I am sorry, but I see Mrs Leijten standing in for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u102	Are you ready for a new chapter or are you almost at the end of your speech? I suggest that...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u103	I'm halfway there!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u104	How does the Labour Party feel that we have been talking to this Secretary of State for four years about under-employment in nursing homes and nursing homes and in this house for at least 15 or 20 years? What does the Labour Party think about the fact that there is still no standard to guarantee basic quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u105	As you yourself have said, our name and the name of my predecessor on this file, Otwin van Dijk, were also under the motion. We see that the field parties and the professional organisations have a differentiated guide with which they say they can get out of the way. However, we also see that this process is stranded in sight of the finish line. I'm glad the Secretary of State is putting it down at the Healthcare Institute right now. I hope that institution will come up with a binding framework that will enable us to follow up. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State. I do think that we should do justice to the problem at the same time, because you do not solve the problem with a two-to-eight standard. That's what the U.S. and the Patient Federation say. I'd like to give them some room to work that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u106	The Labour Party refers all the time to the V&VN and the Patient Federation, which are not in favour of an occupation standard, but the nursing doctors are in favour of it and the FNV is also in favour of it. In addition, a million people signed it. I simply note that you could have had a different judgment. What guarantee does the guidance give on additional staff? Can the Labour Party explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u107	According to these parties, the guide is the basis for achieving good human resources policy, and so it is the start of a discussion on how to ensure that this staff is made available if it does not appear to be achieved. It's too simple to say: with the standard you have the staff. You need staff to work in a sector where there is a lot to do and where it is very difficult to find staff at all. I believe that the guidance and thus the discussion on which staff and how many staff we need in what place is also the start to see how feasible it is within the current frameworks and whether more is needed. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is willing to look into it and he is already doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr President, Mrs Volp was allowed a second interruption when I was standing there. That's what I want now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u109	If you want a second interruption, do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u110	I find it rather shocking that the Labour Party says: if that guidance is a guiding principle, it is not a guarantee that does not lead to the desired result, then a discussion follows. It's done once. It is a sector in which profits are made. We hear day in, day out that there's understaffing. Drivers boast that it is all so difficult, while we know that half of the workers in nursing homes have a contract that can be extended. Let's start with that. Why does the Labour Party not support the sector, which does not want to, and does not support the Labour Party 1 million people who have said that there must be an occupation standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u111	The Labour Party supports those professions that say it's not as simple as a standard 2 out of 8. The Labour Party supports the sector, which is willing to work from there, to indicate the situation with the license to operate, as ActiZ itself calls it, and then to examine with the Secretary of State whether this is feasible and whether it is feasible. Mrs Leijten knows as well as I do that a lot of nursing homes can do fine and do fine. I would like to see whether it is still necessary to set an extra budget for those houses where that guide does not apply, and that comes up to a standard that actually says something about the question of care that lives with the people in that house.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u112	The question of care is simple: I want to go to the bathroom in time, a chat and a dignified old age. The question of family members is also simple: I want it to be in order when I get there. The question of staff is also simple: I want additional colleagues. Then you don't have to investigate any more. Then you don't have to look at a license to operate. Then you just have to act. I note here that the Labour Party has used another four years of its time in the government not to provide additional staff in the nursing homes. That's a great shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u113	People who work in care do so because they want to take care of vulnerable people, in this case elderly people. Those aren't people who complain very quickly about their own situation. That's where I'm concerned about the guidance. I wonder if it will be compelling enough. Wouldn't it be better to set a legal standard? You can differentiate that according to care-gravity packages; it doesn't have to be one standard. Where does Mrs Volp get the confidence that this guidance can work out, which the nursing homes do not even want to follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u114	I value using this as a starting point. That is what the professional associations themselves say. That starting point can lead you to enter into negotiations on the numbers and levels of staff required for certain groups. That is the start, but we are not there yet, because the staff is scarce. It will become even more scarce if this sector remains so incredibly negative. I want a differentiated personnel policy to be possible. In a number of houses, I can do it, so I'd like to see where it doesn't work out. Is that just a matter of more staff or of dealing with staff in a different way? That is one of the reasons why the Secretary of State has indicated that the NZa should consider how much budget perzzp is and whether that is sufficient. It's not that simple, but I share the concern. We're not just here with a standard and we're not just there with a guide.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u115	Then we come to a more political question. If this is the starting point, doesn't that mean that Mrs Leijten's motion, Mr van GroenLinks' and the Labour Party's motion has still not been carried out, two years after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u116	The motion calls for the professional representatives to reach a standard. On this standard, part of the sector, the people who really are at the bed and the representatives of the people who are in the bed indicate that they prefer to see this differentiated in a guide. It's there. One of the parties either pulls the plug or trips the process right before the finish line. I'm very sorry about that, and I think the Secretary of State too. I now want the Healthcare Institute to come up with a binding framework, both for quality and for a differentiated staff policy. That's the starting point to see if we have what we need or if we need something more or other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mrs Volp resumed her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u118	The Patient Federation presented a study last week among more than 22,000 residents of nursing homes. When you ask what people think is important in a nursing home, sufficient and skilled staff are often mentioned. In addition to the V&VN, the Patient Federation indicates that the guide can take a first step towards a responsible staffing. The Patient Federation writes in its letter that it misses the commitment of ActiZ on this important subject. What makes ActiZ manifest and put the heels in the sand? They say they're willing to cooperate, but when it comes down to it, they're moving back into the turd. Yeah, they want an investment agenda. But isn't it part of an investment agenda that you first meet what you invest in? What is quality? What's your basic safety? How many qualified staff is needed? Liver... liver... liver... Then we can talk about the need for additional investment. In what way does this attitude of ActiZ contribute to reducing the workload for employees in nursing care, to increasing the professional pride of nurses and nurses, and to improving the quality of care that these employees can provide? The Secretary of State has indicated not to run away from a discussion about occupation and more staff. Indeed, as I said, he has asked the Dutch Healthcare Authority to investigate the adequacy ofzzp tariffs. But let us first record what is necessary, and then determine whether the existing resources will succeed. If it doesn't work, we need to talk. I ask the Secretary of State or Healthcare Institute Netherlands to come up with a solid quality framework and a clear staff guidance. Because we can't wait. I therefore assume that the standard will be set on 1 January. The debates here do not always make me feel proud as a representative of the people. I saw that again this morning. I want us to continue and make sure that this sector can continue in a positive way with what it wants to do, with what its employees want to do and whatever belongs to our older people, namely to provide good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr. Chairman. We are standing here today because the Leijten motion, which was also supported by us, has not been implemented. And look what's happening. It is not possible to draw up a quality framework that has been supported. How is that possible, especially in Dutch care for the elderly, so to speak, one of the best in the world? Although there is now a guidance on responsible personnel composition, this seems to be mainly a call document and not an occupation standard such as why Mrs Leijten's motion was adopted. That while the biggest problems in nursing care really are to be traced back to staff shortages. The interim report of the Patient Federation also shows that many residents suffer from under-employment in nursing homes or from staff who are partially under-educated. Those sounds also sound from the staff themselves. As a blow to the head, the Health and ActiZ Inspectorate didn't just roll around the street about the completion and delivery of quality data. I hope the messages we have just heard are correct, that there would be a breakthrough now. I don't even care who's right. I just want to know why it doesn't work out. Why can't we make clear, simple and effective agreements on quality and delivery of care? Why are we still hearing about serious staff shortages, about one night shift out of 80 residents, about drugging and bonding, about the training of staff or even about immoral treatment of residents and family members? Why are we still hearing about bad drivers and a culture of fear, about organisations and stakeholders who are ringing the bell because there is a shortage of money due to the austerity of recent years, while other institutions seem to be doing just fine with their limited budget? Then I wonder how much longer. How does the Secretary of State explain these differences? Please, make it clear to us and to the people at home. My appeal to the Secretary of State is to really take control now. Go take care of it. Ensure that all conditions are regulated: sufficient money, an occupation standard, good facilities and competent and involved boards. Restore the trust of the people in the care, of the people in society, of us in the Chamber, but above all of the people at home who have to deal with it or have to deal with it. Join forces and keep our common goal in mind: good, loving care for vulnerable people in society, good care for the elderly without a plethora of rules, protocols and overhead, and with confidence, security, flexibility, transparency and, above all, adequate staff. [[Sentence could not be parsed: 50PLUS kan niet anders dan hopen dat deze escalatie iedereen de ogen opent.]] We are so many letters of Parliament, consultation and action; let this be a turning point. From now on, let us go the same way, because good care for the elderly should be self-evident, a sign of civilisation. It's not damage. It shouldn't even produce political discussion. Everyone is now at the door of the Secretary of State to hear what he is going to do in concrete terms to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr. Chairman. If your father or mother is in a nursing home, then the fear of hearing the news regularly hits you around the heart. When you work in a nursing home, you often walk with the same fear on the work floor. We are flooded with stories about people who are left in diapers for too long, about nursing homes where there is no hot meal on the table at the weekend and where there is not enough staff to take care of everyone or, worse still, where the wrong medicines are on the bedside table. I get angry about that, because if my father or mother ends up in a nursing home at some point, I just want one thing: that they are well taken care of. I'm not the only one who wants that. All those people who are committed to the workplace every day, they want to do the same. Unfortunately, the drivers of most nursing homes seem to be more concerned about their bonus than about their residents. They know that they are supported by an industry organisation which has lost its credibility permanently this week. Let it be clear: if you, as a nursing home driver, choose not to share information about medication safety with the inspection because you are afraid of openness, then you really have something to explain. There may seem to be a breakthrough now, but I still find this inexplicable. In addition, ActiZ as an industry organisation has been able to participate intensively in discussions with the Ministry over the past two years on a good quality framework for care for the elderly. The attitude of these directors and ActiZ is therefore really unacceptable and scandalous. I think ActiZ should apologize to the residents and their neighbors, who feel particularly unsafe about this. I'm curious about the Secretary of State's opinion. Is ActiZ still a credible interlocutor for the Secretary of State? Fortunately, there are also institutions where older people are well cared for. Fortunately, Mrs Voortman also pointed that out. If it is possible there with the same money and the rules that apply to everyone, then it must be possible everywhere. The fact that the Health Institute is now going to impose the new framework on the VVD is fine, but that we have to go this way is a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u121	I have indeed pointed out the differences between one home and another, but I also drew attention to the huge cuts made by the cabinet. I share some of Mr Potters' criticism of caregivers. At the same time, I think that he should put his own hands into his own bosom and say: we have been cutting back on care for the elderly too much lately. Is the VVD going to change that? Will there really be investment in care for the elderly from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u122	The point is that people in nursing homes get good care. What Mrs Voortman notes, what I see and what I think half of the Chamber finds on a lot of work visits, is that there are nursing homes where it goes very well with the same budget, with dedicated people who have a heart for the business and provide very good care for the elderly. And we see nursing homes where things aren't going well at all. Those are very different. I want those differences to go away. It is therefore not only a question of money but also of providing good care. The Secretary of State must at last clarify this. Over the past cabinet period, the structural austerity of 500 million has been reversed and an additional 210 million has been invested in care for the elderly. If we invest more money in care for the elderly, this should also lead to more and better trained staff. I shall come back to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u123	Unfortunately, it is not true that there is more investment in care for the elderly. The last piece of austerity has not gone through and that 200 million is still on the VWS budget and needs to be filled in somewhere within the Long-Term Care Act. We just don't know where yet. That is what Mr Potters has to say. He also states that it is also a question of money, so not just a question of money. It is a question of institutional policy and a question of money. The VVD is now calling out: we're going to do something about care for the elderly. That is what the VVD's leader, Mr Rutte, said recently. What are you going to do, apart from, in part rightly, criticizing the nursing homes? Will the VVD also invest in care for the elderly or will it remain free talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u124	I think I have given a very clear answer. The point is that with the same budget at one nursing home we see very good care, while another nursing home really sinks through the ice. That is unacceptable and it must be resolved. We all agree on that. In addition, this Secretary of State has allocated an additional 210 million to care for the elderly. I want that money to pay off, too. I want us to have really good care for the elderly for that money. I'm going to ask the Secretary of State a number of questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u125	I still see the VVD spokesperson standing here arguing for the 500 million in cuts to continue. I therefore find it special to hear the VVD now suddenly pleading for care for the elderly. Previously, Rutte was angry with people who said they were worried about the future. What has the VVD done over the past four years to improve care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u126	The point is that the elderly care in the Netherlands is in some places very well furnished.That's where things are going really well, those are good examples and there are proud people at work while others are not doing well with care for the elderly. I want these differences to be resolved. That is what we all want, and I think we should put our hands on it. The Secretary of State must ensure that it is not only a good policy, but that it is implemented. If a cut of 500 million is not going to go ahead, that is a considerable amount of money, then I expect the sector to deliver on quality and good staff. I think it is now time to ask the Secretary of State for delivery.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u127	And yet... Last night, nurse Eefje van Zorgaccent, one of the institutions where things are going well, indicated that they are slowly sinking through their hoofs. I am now looking at the VVD and think to myself: it is remarkable that they suddenly discover the care of the elderly. I've actually been through them several times in debates. When I look at the VVD now, I think to myself: what is going on here? In these debates, they came forward to say again to this Secretary of State: and you are still in favour of the 500 million cut, because you have signed this agreement. Reverting these 500 million cuts is in no way the result of the VVD. What has the VVD done in recent years to improve care for the elderly? Even more interesting is the question of what she will do over the next four years to make it better. That is a very fair question because the VVD's list leader has now discovered the theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr Potters, I would ask you not to set up the election programme here. I understand it's a huge challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u129	There's nothing in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u130	We agreed to stick to this issue today. I would therefore ask you to do so. You may answer, but keep it brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u131	I was also working on my own speech. Mrs Keijzer, however, makes a link, and I think it is very logical that I should respond to that. I am far from saying that we would not have a heart for care of the elderly. In fact, I think the VVD has been warm for a long time for care of the elderly, but we also want quality. We also want it to go through if it doesn't go well, and we also want it to be closed as nursing homes under the norm. It also includes that you are strict with respect to the rotten apples in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u132	The VVD is just as critical as the Christian Union when it comes to the position of care authorities, but we also need to be honest. I also see good examples in the country. There are also carers who take responsibility. We're in transition now. There are caretakers who can't go through that, who have trouble with that. How can we, together, ensure that the institutions that deal with this matter do come with the frontrunners?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u133	That was part of my speech. Of course, there are a lot of nursing homes with which things are going well: they provide very good care with the same budget and with passionate people. It just needs to be the norm. We should not have the discussion every time about good examples and lag behind. We need to talk about the standard of good nursing home care. This can be done in the Netherlands, also with the budget we have. I think we should be harder on that. That also means closing a nursing home if necessary if it delivers poor quality. That doesn't mean the people in that nursing home have to leave, but we have to have the guts to replace management with new people. It is unacceptable that we should not be watching this closely and closely towards our elderly people as we do in other sectors. So that also means going through hard where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u134	This is very tough language of the VVD. I don't know if residents are waiting for their home to be shut down. But that aside. I am concerned that very often there is a closed culture, an inward-looking culture. Let me put it as follows: a culture of fear. I would like the shutters to open, institutions to learn from each other, to go step by step with each other to a higher level. I'm thinking peer review...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u135	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u136	I have often raised the issue of peer review. It's not coming off the ground. Will the VVD Group, together with the Christian Union, ask the Secretary of State to instruct the field that ActiZ and V&VN work together on peer review so that we can improve care with each other? I think that's a better way than closing houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u137	I'll come back to the assumption that's being made. I have made it clear that if nursing homes are not functioning properly and are really under-mannered, then we need to get rid of management if necessary. That means closing down a nursing home. This does not mean that we go to another nursing home with older people, but that we really need to ensure that good care is provided and we also dare to act against those managers and administrators who apparently do not understand that they need to provide good care for the elderly. I want to make that nuance, because this is about a very vulnerable group. That is why we must choose our words carefully here. Mrs Dik now puts words in my mouth. She says we want to paint a picture of fear and close nursing homes. I say that we should replace drivers when they do not work and that we should just leave older people in the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u138	No, Mrs. Fat-Faber, we're doing interruptions in half. Or do you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u139	I would like to make a point of order, because I am accused of putting Mr Potter's words in the mouth. That wasn't my intention. I'm talking about the fear culture within homes that we need to do something about. I have heard Mr Potters say very clearly: closing nursing homes. I think that's all you're gonna do is get people out of here. If it's different, I like to hear it...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u140	I'm gonna take a break. Mr Potters has just made an extensive nuance of that. So I suggest that you listen to each other carefully and not repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u141	I thought Mr Krol's appeal was a very important one: let us look at what we can achieve together today as parties. I have one question for Mr Potters. The Dutch Healthcare Authority is going to investigate the pricing. She's going to look at the actual situation. That is a bit technical, but when the care packages were introduced, some sort of snapshot was chosen. If you look at care in nursing homes now, it's much more complex. There is often a double problem: somatic and psychiatric. My question...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u142	Would you like to ask your question and not respond to interruptions outside the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u143	My ability to concentrate also has a limit when a colleague is shouting in my ear from the benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u144	Short question now, because I see that you need a long introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u145	Sometimes it is necessary. Does Mr Potters agree with me that the NZa should also look at the desirable situation in its research? The pricing is based on a time when the target groups for nursing homes were very different than they are today. Is it also a good idea for Mr Potters to ask the Secretary of State to look at the desirable rather than the actual situation in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u146	I also note that the gravity of care has increased in recent years and that people with much more severe diseases end up in a nursing home, sometimes dying faster. I think we should look very carefully at what that care gravity is like. If Mrs Bergkamp would like to ask the Secretary of State, I support her request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u147	I can be very brief about this. I welcome Mr Potters' confirmation that he considers this important. The point is that the desirable situation must also be considered. It needs to be included in the NZa's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u148	I think that is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u149	You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u150	When this framework is in place, I assume that the Secretary of State will at last intervene in the event of a lack of directors. Can he confirm that? And can he also confirm that from 1 January 2017 the inspection will maintain tightly on this new framework, including the Guidance Responsible Staff Composition? I think that guidance is just part of this framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u151	I think it is good that the VVD considers the guide to be part of the quality framework, because there is no quality framework. This is precisely what the Healthcare Institute is called on to do. It's a totally voluntary conversational tool. Nevertheless, I agree with Mr Potters that we must, of course, be on top of it. But can he also explain why he accepts that the question of what should be the basis of quality has been discussed for two years now, while we simply know what to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u152	Am I also impatient about the quality framework? If I may translate Mrs Leijten's question in this way, my answer is yes, absolutely. The framework is now in place, and I believe that we should maintain it strictly from 1 January. Any delay, whether caused by ActiZ or not, is really unacceptable. We have been waiting a long time for a clear guide and a clear standard for good nursing care. This clear standard also includes a clear staffing standard. That staff standard is not just a standard of two staff members on a group of eight people. For example, it is a question of "b" and that is also stated in this guide "b" that there is always supervision of the living room when someone else has to go to the toilet. You might need three people instead of two. This is an intelligent form of a standard. I think it's fine that it's on paper, but it should also be maintained. I regard it as part of the quality framework that will be maintained by the inspection, and I believe that we should be firm in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u153	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u154	Does Mr Potters know how this monitoring works? A camera is being hung and the caretaker gets a picture of what's going on in the living room while she's taking someone to the bathroom. She just can't intervene if she needs to. That's supervision according to the drivers. There is no guarantee in the guide and that's why that guide is such a mess. But the VVD is clearer than the Labour Party, because the latter says: if it doesn't work, we're going to talk and study again. The VVD says, on the other hand, that it will have to be tested as of 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u155	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u156	But does the VVD also think that there should be a hard occupation requirement from what the Healthcare Institute now has to finish because the sector is not coming out, and therefore not a guide to be able to have a good conversation about sufficient staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u157	Finally, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u158	I agree with Mrs Leijten that a good conversation is of course not a norm. Let that be clear. The Zorginstituut Nederland is going to lay down a clear quality framework for this guidance. I quote the guide: "There is always someone in each population in the living room/common room to provide residents with the necessary attention and proximity." I think that is a very clear starting point. You have to be able to test that and if you see that an institution cannot meet that, you have to maintain it. If there are nursing homes that consistently fail to meet that standard, you must also dare to say: we are closing them. That's what I'm saying to Mrs Leijten. Again: that doesn't mean that people have to leave, but you have to have the guts to replace management.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u159	I would suggest that you resume your speech, but Mrs Agema has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u160	I was just getting off my case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u161	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u162	If the Wlz lays down that the criterion for access to the Wlz is that someone needs 24 hours of surveillance, it is not necessary to base a standard on the requirement that someone should always be present in the room. Shouldn't we just make a whole ditch of extra money available to attract extra people and to train people better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u163	I am certainly in favour of better training of staff and more staff. The 210 million earmarked by the Secretary of State for this purpose, among other things, because it is also intended for daily spending, should contribute to better staffing and better trained staff. I agree with Mrs Agema that a standard alone is not enough. A standard in itself is something you stick to or not. It's also about culture. It's also about whether anyone sees what's going on in the nursing home. Is there still supervision in the living room when you take someone to the bathroom? About that kind of thing, where a lot of nursing homes score well, but some of them don't, we need to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u164	When it comes to daily spending, it is very false for Mr Potters to say that he is investing. On the contrary, he's making extreme cuts in daily spending. He's cut this cabinet period to 1.1 billion, but he says he's investing 200 million. That's fake! I'd really like to ask him to stop making that false presentation. The VVD destroyed the care of the elderly. At the moment, the people who are included are at great risk. When does the VVD come with extra money for care for the elderly, which is really extra money?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u165	I think we are having a debate today on the quality of care for the elderly. It is difficult enough to agree very clear frameworks on this. I want the Secretary of State to maintain really hard, especially at the nursing homes where things aren't going well. We have a lot of money available for care of the elderly. I agree with that, because I think care for the elderly is extremely important. It's about the dignity of my father and mother and grandpa and grandma too. I want them to end up in an old age facility in a good way. I also think that we should be hard on the quality that is being delivered there. I say for perhaps the tenth time that there are a lot of nursing homes where things are going well with very passionate people. Where things aren't going well, we have to take it harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u166	About the 200 million. Mr Potters has said a number of times that this cabinet invests 200 million in care for the elderly. That's not the case, is it? There'll be 200 million less cuts. Does Mr Potters share that observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u167	An additional 210 million was made available last year for care for the elderly. That's also good, because that was necessary; absolutely fine. But for that money we also want the quality of the nurses and the number of nurses to go up. That's what we agreed with this Secretary of State. That is where the program Dignity and pride came from. Every nursing home can provide an example for that. I don't want this to be noncommittal. I don't want the money getting into management and not getting more hands on the bed. That is why I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State to get some more clarity and clarity about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u168	There's no money. In fact, Mr Potters says the following to the health care institutions. "We were going to cut you down first, but now a little less. And from what we cut less, you have to hire extra staff." You can't do that, can you? Isn't Mr. Potters joking a little bit? There is no investment in care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u169	I think this is the way our budget works. Last year we made EUR 210 million extra available until 2020. This amounts to EUR 210 million per year. The Chamber is perfectly entitled to ask what kind of money is being delivered. As far as I am concerned, it is very important that there is better and well-qualified staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u170	Mr Potters, would you like to conclude your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u171	I also have a question for the Secretary of State about the extra money allocated last year to care for the elderly. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actually use this 210 million for more and better staff? Furthermore, is the Secretary of State prepared to punish institutions that do not spend the money properly by depositing that money at the nursing homes that do spend it well? Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the motion on drug safety that I tabled before the summer. Is the implementation also due to the arrangement of ActiZ................................................................................................................................................. Mr President, I have come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u172	Excuse me, I wasn't paying attention, because I was worried about the length of the debate. Thank you for your speedy conclusion. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's contribution. After the suspension we resume with the answer by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u173	We are ready for the first-term response by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u174	Mr. Chairman. This spring a dissertation by Hanneke Beerens appeared, who looked a bit remotely at the state of nursing and dementia care in the Netherlands. She made the statement: "The Netherlands all-round champion dementia care." The subject has indeed been on our agenda for decades, and it will have to remain on our agenda, because the quality of nursing homes cannot be captured with a picture forever. The quality of nursing home care is constantly evolving and will also have to continue to develop. That's what we see in time. We used to have dormitories, then multiple bedrooms, then single bedrooms and now there's more and more discussion about the living room. There is a growing awareness that the quality of life is not alone or falls with safe care, which must always be in order everywhere. Wicked life is also listening to what clients, residents and relatives think of the care and meet their needs. This is a positive development which must continue and continues. However, there are still too many and too many examples where things are not going well or not good enough. Sometimes there is too little attention for the residents, the staff constantly feel they have time to run and run, and medication safety is not self-evident. Sometimes too many flex faces make human attention impossible and sometimes there is more attention to finance or real estate than to the quality of daily care. That is why it is so important to have a fair picture of the quality of the sector, to know what strong institutions are and why they are strong, institutions that can be a standard for everyone. In addition, what is not going well, what is weak and what can be improved must be named. Learning from good examples and correcting where things are not going well. That is why transparency is so important, because, as Hanneke Beerens writes at the end of her dissertation: "The Netherlands must remain champion." This can only be done if we continue to look at each other critically where improvements are possible, what this means for care training and whether there is sufficient attention to the quality of life. And care for the elderly must indeed be more central to training. Therefore also: Dignity and pride. Dignity because everyone, even in a home like that, must be able to live in dignity because it is no longer at home. And proud because I want nurses and nurses to be proud of their work, to have room for personal attention and to be able to say on a birthday: I work in a nursing home and I'm proud of that. That is what we must strive for. I think we can do that, too. There are so many examples of where things are going well and, as Mr Potters rightly says, could be the norm for everyone. The history of the property, the staff and the care gravity are of course decisive for the speed with which you can go from A to B. That is precisely why it is so important that we strive for clarity, honesty and transparency of quality so that we can improve where possible and correct where necessary. A number of questions have been asked about the staff guidance board. We are talking in this debate about how the Leijten motion of November 2014 was implemented. The motion asks the government to have an occupation standard drawn up by the professional associations and to have them included in the professional directives and to be part of the basis on which the care is purchased. In my letter of 5 October and in previous progress reports, I indicated how we are carrying out this motion. The plan of approach Dignity and pride of February 2015 states that professional associations and providers will provide guidance for responsible staffing. It is stated that this guide will be the basis for the purchase. An earlier version of the guide was sent to the Chamber during the second progress report of February 2016. Mr. Chairman. I am sometimes quite emotional on this subject, but my voice is also caused by a small cold. The third progress report of June 2016 also stated that it was the objective to submit the staff management board and the quality framework to the Dutch Health Institute on 1 October 2016. On Friday 30 September last, together with the Dutch Patient Federation, V&VN offered the guidance to the Zorginstituut. As has already been said, this guide has been made for and through practice. A number of healthcare providers have been piloted, so that the operation in practice itself is involved in the development. V&UN and the parties involved have deliberately opted for a substantive, qualitative standard in the development process rather than a quantitative standard. Their justification is that no numbers apply to all situations, all client groups, all labour market issues and all buildings. Therefore, the submitted version of the guide clearly looks at the balance sheet, in order to leave room for the specific context in which a group of residents is located, but also for a certain set of standards. The fact that both professionals and patients have come to the conclusion that this is a good interpretation of the guide is an important indication for me that the desire to provide personalised care is being fulfilled, with the staff that fits in with it. You might wonder if working with qualitative standards isn't too soft. That is why I think it would be good to go through a few qualitative standards from the guide with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u175	Mrs Leijten, I see that you want to ask a question, but I would like to make a point of order myself. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Is this another introduction? Did he arrange the answer? We are very tight in time for this debate. If, for example, the Secretary of State has ordered on the subject of staff, I suggest that you interrupt at the end of the answer to the questions relating to this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u176	Indeed, I did have a small piece on the contents of the staff guidance board.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u177	Then I propose that the Secretary of State complete this first and that the interruptions be placed at the end of this reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u178	Let's walk through the quality standards in a few places, see what they mean. Employees who are in direct contact with the residents know them by name and by name and know what their background is and how they like to be treated. This means that there must be people who know the people and that you do not simply add capacity with someone with whom that is completely impossible. You have to make demands on the person and perhaps on the fixed contracts. That person must be well-trained. The guide states that there must be at least one employee in each population group and in each service who, with his knowledge and skills, responds to the needs for care and care of the residents. Mr Potters said the same thing. The heavier the care question, the more expert the employee will be. According to this guide, services for residents with severe dementia cannot be filled with helpers with insufficient knowledge and skills. There is always someone in each group of residents in the living room or common room to offer residents the necessary attention and proximity. From reviews on the Zorgkaart Nederland we know how important these attention and proximity are. In my opinion, this qualitative standard allows the personal circumstances, the building in which one sits, the care gravity of the group and the context in which things take place to be weighed as closely as possible. I think it is a huge gain that the guidance has been built up in this way. This will put an end to a merely budgetary management of staff, perhaps we can agree on this, Mrs Leijten, in which we will determine, withzzp tariffs and a calculation tool from the Healthcare Authority, what kind of formation there is in an institution. The question of how staff can be properly assembled should be approached from the concerns of residents and from qualitative standards. Teams should be given a chance to identify what they need. As in any organisation, it is up to the board and management, together with professionals and clients, to determine how the standard can be met as optimally as possible. I sincerely believe that this leads to what we want for residents, namely a better composition of staff. This ensures more quality of care and therefore quality of life. I am pleased that, after 15 years of discussion, in which we sometimes talked about quality, sometimes talked about staff composition and sometimes talked about safety, we are now making an integral picture, covering both the quality of life and the composition of staff and basic safety in its entirety. This will lead to a quality standard set by the Healthcare Institute, which will benefit everyone, clients, residents, family, care buyers, healthcare institutions. I really think it's an achievement and great progress. Mrs Leijten, you could also be a little proud that your motion will be implemented in this way and that we will achieve this situation after 15 years. I therefore congratulate Mrs Leijten on the motion, but she could also be a little proud of the result that we could achieve and celebrate together. We shouldn't get into the situation where it's never good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u179	How many people from the workplace have actually talked about this guide?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u180	The guide is made by the professional association. The professional association has all kinds of contacts with the workplace. There will undoubtedly be different views. That also makes sense, because one institution is not the other. Mrs Leijten asked for a directive with the profession in her motion at the time. Now the profession and patient organisations have made a directive. It will be submitted to the Healthcare Institute, which will check whether the guidance complies with the requirements and whether there are any other comments on it. Mrs Leijten could be a little happy about that, wouldn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u181	Mr President, you say to us that we must reply briefly, but this was not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u182	I'm going to give you another chance to ask the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u183	This guide is a conversation manual. It is said, for example, that quality offers you when someone always supervises the group. I think that the people who work in the care of the elderly say that my shoes do not fall out of it, because I know that too. What guarantee does the guidance provide that under-employment is actually being dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u184	This guide, like the discussion on quality of life and standards of basic safety, is part of the quality framework that will soon be established by the Health Institute. The guiding principle is not something unusual. He is part of the quality framework and thus for clients, residents, relatives, care buyers and everyone alike. So everyone's not gonna make their own list. This makes it very clear what we mean by 'quality of life', 'good staff composition' and 'basic security'. So that's just part of the quality standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u185	This is again not an answer to my question as to what guarantee this guidance provides that additional staff will be provided. Then let me do this...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u186	I find that we had made the agreement to do interruptions in half. You may place another interruption, but that will be your second. I would very much like to finish this debate at 1 p.m. So we really don't have much time. If you're placing your interruption now, that's your second. And briefly, please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u187	We get no guarantee that this guidance will lead to additional staff. You can talk about it, but if it doesn't, you have nothing to fall back on. Is the Secretary of State prepared to set up a hotline for caregivers or relatives of residents if employers do not comply with the guidance or standard which the Secretary of State says is now included in the Quality Directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u188	That hotline's been in the IGZ a long time. Anyone with complaints about care can go there for whatever reason. They may have to deal with the norm, personal matters or otherwise. This will lead to action by the inspection if necessary. The quality standard is about the three elements I mentioned earlier, which are also going to be part of IGZ supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u189	There is already a hotline, which we know is mainly referred back and it is said: have a good conversation in the institution. The gap between governance and the workplace is huge in the care of the elderly. We've all determined that a hundred times. Where things go well, there is no difference between the caregivers, the clients, their relatives and the board about how to do it. This is about the institutions with care routes, where residents have to be taken to the toilet in 2 minutes and 15 seconds...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u190	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u191	If the staff then raises their finger and says they can't and the workload is too high, it doesn't hear. I'm looking...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u192	You really need to be shorter now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u193	I'm looking into how this guidance is gonna help. Or is it going to be a new paper tiger?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u194	If we continue to reason like this, nothing's ever right. The motion called for a staff standard to be drawn up by the profession. That standard is there now. Then Mrs Leijten says: I want it to be different. Of this, I say that it will be incorporated into the quality framework of the Healthcare Institute. This is not without obligation; it is used in purchasing, monitoring and transparency. Then we are going to do that and ask Mrs Leijten if there can be a hotline in case things are not going well. When I say there's a hotline, she says the hotline isn't right. That's not how we're gonna get out. I am really pleased that after perhaps decades of discussions, where we will have to continue discussing quality, we now have an integral story. That story is that both quality of life and staff composition and basic quality come into a quality framework in which everyone does not work with their own lists, but is clear to everyone how we will work with them, also in the supervision, also for the clients and also for the care buyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u195	It is a profit that we have a guidance staff, developed by client organizations and caregivers and nurses. Only ActiZ, the employers' interest organisation, said that it does not want this, that there is no support for it. Does the Secretary of State also see this problem, or was it resolved yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u196	I will come back to the specific problem of yesterday, but I do not see the problem. First of all, I cannot imagine that I have no evidence to suggest that the interbranch association would want us not to come up with a good guidance on staff in which quality of care is guaranteed. I will come back to that later. Secondly, we are now entering the non-binding phase of the Healthcare Institute, in which there will soon be a quality standard on the three elements I mentioned. It does not have a non-binding character, but will be used by the care buyer and the inspection. Transparency can also be used by clients to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u197	I understand that, but you also want something to be worn instead of imposing it. If there is support, it works easier in practice and you have some more results. So after all, my question to the Secretary of State: is there now support from ActiZ for this guidance and is part of the guide that distinguishes between planned and unplanned care? Someone gave me that suggestion yesterday. I thought it was right, and I'd be happy to give her to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u198	I have no indication that ActiZ or the inter-branch associations should actually say: the institutions in the care and care sector do not want to participate in the three elements of the quality framework, namely quality of life, staff composition and basic safety. Well, let's be honest, it couldn't be. Firstly, it is not without obligation and secondly, everyone has an interest in it. I don't have the clues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u199	I suggest that the Secretary of State completes the reply. The Secretary of State has said that he will come back to it in his reply. I think it is important for him to have that opportunity, too, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u200	I asked him if he would take planned and unplanned care with him as suggestions to the Healthcare Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u201	If that's the way you're asked, I'll certainly do it. About the quality framework in general, the guide should be part of it. Unfortunately, a shared quality framework has not been achieved. The concept quality framework has been assessed as insufficient by customer organisations and healthcare insurers in the Netherlands. This has to do with the development of the framework. Some parties find it too non-binding and others find it too unstandard to make the quality frameworks. Mrs. Bergkamp said I should take control. So that's what we're doing. We have agreed rules on this in this Chamber. We have a healthcare institute for a reason. If the parties fail to reach a clear position, there is a perseverance of the Zorginstituut. That is precisely what we have set in motion. So yes, that support is important, and so do I. However, we are now at the moment when we have said that 1 October is 1 October and that we are going to take the next step, asking the Health Institute to make the quality framework with perseverance. The work of all parties involved is, of course, being built upon. The Health Institute has expressed the ambition to provide a first quality framework as from 1 January, as I have read in my letter, in which at least the guidance staff and the indicators for basic safety are given a place. This also means that the Healthcare Institute is involved in assessing whether the qualitative standards included in the guide are sufficient. I am very pleased with this ambition and, moreover, with all the parties concerned. Of course, you can keep talking for a very long time and it is also good to create that support, but if parties find that they need the Healthcare Institute... one might need it a little more than the other, but I think it is now necessary because the date of 1 October has expired. So I think this is a good thing. What exactly does the quality framework mean? First of all, it means that clients can choose better. Why? Because we are taking the huge step towards transparency on the basis of a clear quality framework and external accountability. It is a framework on which the IGZ can organise supervision. Moreover, the framework helps to buy care from the various healthcare providers. How many times have we talked in this Chamber about situations where everyone actually had their own quality list, which in turn led to all kinds of administration and bureaucracy and planning assessments? I think it is really incredibly important that this should be the quality framework that everyone can use for all parties. I told you, there's a real cultural battle coming from behind. In many institutions staffing is often still carried out in budgetary terms. Following the guide means a different way of working for the institutions. I would like to emphasise that. It will take some time for the institutions, but the other way of thinking must be anchored in the way it works. Then there are the basic safety indicators. On Monday 10 October, I sent a letter to the Chamber in which I answered questions about ActiZ's report on suspending the provision of safety indicators to IGZ. In the meantime, ActiZ has informed the IGZ that it has lifted the suspension and that the accusation of carelessness has not been properly justified by the inspection.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The organization has apologized for this. I think that is a good thing. It makes a few things clear. First of all, it's just being delivered now. Secondly, we are looking forward. It's a good thing this is happening. I am counting on it and I am also confident that all parties will work together to ensure that this quality framework can be established and that there is no discussion about delivering safety indicators. What specific arrangements have been made on the transparency of basic safety? The IGZ requests annual indicators. These are used to carry out risk-driven supervision. This means that on the basis of these indicators, IGZ also determines which institutions need extra attention. This year, as part of Dignity and pride with all interested parties, it has been agreed that in addition to the usual set of indicators, it has always been asked out on four topics for safety indicators. A second important step is that it has been decided to make the whole set of indicators transparent for future clients and relatives on ZorgkaartNederland and chooseBeter.nl. This means that people can also get this objective safety information and client experience. This will enable them to examine the safety aspects. These basic safety indicators focus on four topics: the use of psychopharmaceuticals, freedom-limiting measures, infection prevention and hygiene, and evacuation plans and fire safety. Mrs Keijzer asked a question about oral care. I would remind the Court that this was made at the Court's explicit request. With regard to oral care, we noted that, in particular with regard to nutrition for the elderly, oral hygiene is not so much an additional administrative burden as it can be very important for the safety and health of the elderly. Since the IGZ already requested indicators for monitoring annually, it has been decided jointly to include these indicators in the IGZ's request. I think that transparency from the beginning of next year is an incredibly good, courageous and almost revolutionary step. In addition to client experiences, clients and close relatives gain insight into the important security aspects per location. This supports the line that has also been discussed in the Chamber: what can you include further on these security aspects? As stated in my letter of 10 October, this transparency is intended to learn and improve. This indeed requires stakeholders to take care of this transparency, Ms Volp. Of course, it is intended to learn, improve and correct where necessary. The bad examples should not be the example of the sector. Being proud at work must be the norm. Of course there are bad examples, as in any sector, and of course there will be bad examples that need correction, but it is incredibly important. That is why I understand that everyone is discussing what this transparency means and what it will mean for the imagery. How is that discussed? It is very important, also for the sector, to take the lead by saying: we are transparent and these are our achievements. We see where it goes well and we see where it goes less well. Where things are going well we make a standard, but where things are going badly we correct, preferably each other but if necessary through supervision. I think that's very important. We must always bear in mind that we must give time to do so, because it is a multi-annual development. Anyone who calls out that this is a quick fix is wrong, but at the same time we must continue to work steadily and surely to improve quality. The publication and interpretation of the research data requires great care. There will also have to be a good explanation by the sector, by the inspection and by us here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u202	Mr Potters, let me first look at the Secretary of State, because I want to know if he's at the end of his block.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u203	That is the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u204	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u205	It is good to hear that the guide is now there and that it is an intelligent standard. The name "guidance" suggests otherwise, but I also hear the Secretary of State say that it is part of the quality framework and that it will be maintained. Does this happen from 1 January and what consequences are there if this guide is not met? I am asking that question because I am also feeling the impatience on this point, perhaps I agree with Mrs Leijten that it is now a little over with all these talks. We're just gonna have to keep up. It will have to be said clearly to the poor nursing homes: this is the norm and if you do not meet it, you will have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u206	Of course, it is already being maintained; you have seen that. Some indications have been given, some supervision has been strengthened and sometimes it even leads to an adjustment of the organisation. It may eventually lead to a statement that care should no longer be provided at a given location for the time being. It's already happening. The profit of what we're about to do is that no longer everyone, buyers and inspection, has a list of their own about the client choices. There is a clear quality framework that ensures that everyone is aligned and that it can be maintained. Of course, this will be maintained with the quality framework in hand from 1 January onwards. But that is what is happening now because, as you have read in my progress reports, the inspection has now established a quality framework of supervision that sets out how to maintain it. The inspection has, of course, already taken advantage of the knowledge and skills contained in the current documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u207	That may be true, but we're still seeing some very bad nursing homes. What I don't think anyone here wants is for us to develop a paper tiger. I don't think the Secretary of State wants that either. It means we just have to go through it real hard. In my opinion, it should be his message to the directors that we are going to work with this framework in hand, that they will have the opportunity to do so, but that they will encounter the Secretary of State and the inspection if they do not comply with it because from now on it will be done with poor nursing homes that perform below the standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u208	That's exactly how it is. Of course, we are setting a quality framework together for a reason. If it is clear and transparent for clients, care buyers and the inspection, it will be maintained by them, with the tools that we have all given to the inspection to ensure that adequate supervision can be exercised.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u209	I just heard the Secretary of State say that the quality framework should put an end to the practice that everyone has their own list. I have the following question: does this mean that the following plans and rules will disappear? I am talking in particular about procurement: the self-analysis and development plans 2016; the different registration systems relating to tariffs because the allocation of storage differs; the data, e.g. offers and production arrangements to be provided to health care offices but with which nothing happens; the accumulation of quality requirements; the internal control of the institutions themselves; the auditor who then controls and the health care offices; the extensive procurement frameworks that circulate; review frameworks; multi-care schemes; mandatory registration...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u210	Mrs Keijzer, I think you made your point. Your question is whether all that disappears and you already asked that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u211	Mr President, you are a fraction of a second too fast, and as a result this interruption takes longer. Will these rules end?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u212	I know that list from ActiZ, too. If we have a clear quality framework that we all agree on, if we don't agree on, then we will establish with perseverance: nice, but this will be him, then it will have consequences for all parties. This will have consequences for the inspection, which is now in the process of shaping the review framework in this way. This will have an impact on the way in which healthcare agencies implement their purchasing role. I would point out that there is also work at the health offices: let us not make a kind of spreadsheet budget distribution; let us have a qualitative discussion about the quality of your care. There is a danger that everyone will do so in their own way, but the quality framework will help. Perhaps we will take another step, which Mrs Keijzer herself has also called for. Maybe we should go to a form of personal funding, so that we pay on the basis of the choice that the clients themselves make. That's the long answer. The short answer is: yes, of course this will also have an impact on the purchasing conditions imposed by healthcare agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u213	Before the summer there was an AO on control pressure. There was a letter from the Secretary of State announcing further investigation into the deletion of rules. I want to go beyond that. I want the Secretary of State's undertaking that the quality framework now being drawn up by the Health Institute will put an end to these kind of duplications, registrations and so on. This is one of the reasons why an average nurse is behind a computer 30 to sometimes 40% of her time. There's gotta be another way, and there's gotta be another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u214	The last sentence is taken from my heart. That's exactly why we're gonna sit around the table with the workers from the workplace, nurses and caregivers, with the care buyers, with the supervisors and with the care providers: what can we delete, what can we say, what else should we do, what should we do? The quality framework will be very helpful in this respect, as it will also have an impact on that process. I very much agree with Mrs Keijzer. Those administrative burdens need to be reduced, because every euro you spend unnecessarily on administrative burdens simply has to go to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u215	The issue of funding from people's own choices is very appealing to me. I have a question about the instruments. The Secretary of State states: then there will be a clear set of instruments. At the same time, he said to Mr Potters that measures are already being taken. What will change in concrete terms with this policy framework from 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u216	A few things. Part of the quality framework is what I very briefly point out as: from quality of care to quality of life. This means not only that care should be safe and in order, but also that we should listen much more to the backgrounds and wishes of clients and their relatives. That is personal care, including in institutions. That is very important and that is also the search, because you will probably not find the norm for that with lists. Just as the Patient Federation has done, you will have to ask the people themselves: what do you think, what can we improve? You're gonna have to listen more to people's voices themselves. We just talked about the personnel composition. I just gave you a few examples. This second step will lead to the question: what personnel composition belongs to this location and to this population group? The third step concerns basic safety. These safety standards will be added to the question that the inspection already made and they will all become transparent. This means that we will soon have a quality framework that goes more towards quality of life, that we will be clearer about the composition of staff and that we will also be transparent about basic safety. I think those are very big steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u217	The fact that more is being listened to what clients want and what their family cares about, appeals to me. My motion, which was passed before the summer, was about that. The Secretary of State says that the demands on staff composition should be made clearer. I think that's a good plan, too. But we already know what the problem is with the composition of staff, namely that there are too few people? What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms when a healthcare provider has too few people on a group?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u218	If we have a quality framework, including for the composition of staff, which is part of a quality standard, then the IGZ can check it out. I also hope that there is no need for measures to meet the quality criteria in the institutions themselves. It is not a matter of a non-binding discussion on a questionnaire, as Mrs Leijten said. I have given a number of examples of things that will soon be part of the quality framework, which can be tested and bought in. Those are steps that remove the non-binding nature of the discussion, aren't they? I imagine you say "see first and then believe." That is why I said: let us wait until 1 October; then we will take control and use the perseverance force. But that will be the framework by which we are going to work. This may mean that the quality framework inspection says that a club needs to improve or provide an indication of how to adapt its personnel composition, because it does not meet the requirements of the quality framework. Moreover, in some cases the inspection is already doing so. Soon it will do so on the basis of a quality framework that is transparent for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u219	If the quality framework is going to lead to fewer ticking lists and more quality of life, I am very satisfied. The Secretary of State said at the beginning of his speech that the direction of the Healthcare Institute is borne by all parties in the care. But ActiZ isn't there. He doesn't wear it. How can we ensure that the quality framework is also supported by the employers by ActiZ? If we put this on top, it's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u220	That's right, but it's one of two. We have given the sectors time to come up with such a quality framework, supported by all parties. In the final phase, it was found that specifications could not be agreed. It's possible. Not that much wrong with that, by the way. At some point, you're gonna have to move on. Parties have therefore asked the Healthcare Institute to move it forward and do so with perseverance. ActiZ also stated in a letter to the Healthcare Institute that it unfortunately failed to reach agreement, and that it was transferred to the Healthcare Institute so that it could do its job. I have no reason to believe that at ActiZ there would be no basis for the perseverance of the Healthcare Institute. ActiZ himself said: it didn't work out, here you have it. I have no indication that ActiZ wouldn't stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u221	The Secretary of State has sent a letter to the Chamber, in which ActiZ is missing from the list. ActiZ isn't in there. I think that is a very worrying development. I do not want to detract from the good words of the Secretary of State and from the use of care agencies that are doing well, but there are still too many places where it is not okay. There the old thinking reigns, while we want to move towards a transition to quality of life. How's the Secretary of State handling that? How are we going to get these care authorities involved in the development that we are all about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you for your question. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to comment briefly on this. This is the fourth time I've heard this answer. I imagine it could be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u223	It was originally intended that ActiZ would offer it to the Healthcare Institute on behalf of the parties listed. That didn't work. This means that ActiZ only offered it to the Healthcare Institute, without the support of the other parties. Moreover, all parties consider that the power of perseverance of the Health Institute should now be used. This applies to all parties, including ActiZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u224	The guidance for responsible staffing is also referred to as a dialogue tool. If it is a dialogue tool, how hard is it for standards to get extra staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u225	I have heard this question before. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u226	When compiling your staff mix, of course, it matters what the group cares about. Do you have a mixed group or a group with very serious problems? It doesn't matter what the group size is. So you can never say: we sat behind the desk, someone said "it's this norm" and that applies to everyone. That's not true. A number of qualitative requirements are laid down for the composition of staff. With that, you have to look at the workplace, in your own location, what's best for yourself. I also spoke to the Three Sisters. They indicate that caregivers can be very much in the lead to indicate what is best in their situation. This applies not only to the composition of the staff, but also to which people you assume, what expertise you need, up to and including the messages. There's got to be that room on the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u227	If it is a dialogue instrument that will be introduced as of 1 January, what will the inspection check on? Is this to the fact that this dialogue is being conducted, after all, it is a dialogue tool or to the fact that there is a result that leads to sufficient staff to provide sufficient quality care? I haven't gotten that clear yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u228	I have already heard the question of what the inspection is testing, so the answer may also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u229	If we have a quality standard, including the staff guide, and the inspection checks on it, then we shouldn't assume that the inspection says, "Thank you for talking about it, nice that nothing happened." That's not gonna happen that way, is it? It should also be a dialogue tool because you have to look at what is best in your situation, at your location, with the staff, on the workplace, together with management, considering your target group and your care gravity. You can't put everyone on the same page. So there will be differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u230	Mr Van Rijn, would you like to respond in particular to questions raised in the microphone and resume your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u231	Mr President, you are right. My ear is just not tuned to the question of whether or not it is said in the microphone. Mrs Leijten also asked why providers and healthcare offices are involved in the guide. The Health Institute has the legal task of deploying its perseverance power if the field parties fail to come out. It is important that providers and healthcare agencies are also involved, because you should not just agree on quality. It should also be organised by healthcare providers and bought-in. So I think it is important for all parties, if possible, to be involved in such a discussion. I come to Mrs Keijzer, because Mrs Agema had not asked a question. Mrs Keijzer asked if the guide is in the quality framework. The answer is yes. That is what I said in my speech. She asked what that means for the consultation. Is there still a common interest? Of course. We can be incredibly arguing with each other. I also found it unacceptable, as the Chamber has noted, to have a discussion about the investigation, the data and the questions you may have. If you say you can't deliver that data, it's unacceptable. I am pleased that ActiZ has now said: we have not done that well; we are just going to deliver again. ActiZ has an incredibly important interest as an industry organisation in continuing the discussion on quality. I have no doubt that ActiZ will be committed to this. I have already said enough about safety issues in my speech. I'm coming to the process of the Healthcare Institute. The Healthcare Institute is now on its way to work. It has the ambition to provide the first quality framework by 1 January. The Healthcare Institute is organizing that now, as we speak. It will continue to inform me online about its progress, even in the short term. I imagine that we will discuss progress regularly in this Chamber. I agree with Mrs Keijzer that the discussion should not be whether or not we are getting ticking lists. I very much agree with her. We may have too many lists. She also gave a number of examples of this. But we shouldn't shoot the lists either. The question about the quality of life you will have to ask the people themselves. In order to see what is best in terms of personnel composition, you will have to sit down with the staff and management. And when you talk about basic safety, in a number of cases it will also be just lists. Is it safe? What about medication safety? Is it clean in here? The question should not therefore be whether we should have lists or not. We just need to measure what's necessary. Sometimes we have to listen to the people, sometimes to the staff and sometimes there has to be a list of questions: is it clean and safe here? This combination will undoubtedly be found in part thanks to the Healthcare Institute. I'm coming to Mrs. Bergkamp. I have made the necessary comments on the planning. It is the ambition of the Healthcare Institute to have a first quality framework on 1 January. She asked what is wrong with the quality framework. The discussion is a bit about the combination. The question shouldn't be: list/no list? Depending on the subject, it should be: what is the best intervention? The three strokes I make will help to ensure that we have a differentiated but careful approach there. When it comes to the guide, there are indeed already pilots. This guide can also work according to professionals and organisations. All the institutions can start working on this guide, as it is already known. The IGZ and the health offices can therefore already take this into account in their tasks. So we're not gonna wait, but we're gonna see what can already be used. Mrs Bergkamp made another comment about real estate. I think she has an important point. Indeed, the history of the real estate often determines the speed at which the cover can be made. It is, of course, up to the provider himself to make choices. You can see that happening to an increasing extent. I have informed the Chamber of this earlier, together with my colleague, Mr Blok, by letter. I am in consultation with Platform31 to see if we can further strengthen this. However, Mrs Bergkamp has a point, namely that real estate is not only a focus of attention because of the real estate, but also because it often hinders the rate of innovation. Mrs Voortman asked if the GroenLinks motion would be included in the guide. That motion asks to examine the explanations for the difference in quality. Some of you have also made a comment on this. Mr Potters said that there is a difference in quality with the same budget. There are very different starting points and, by the way, results. I promised I'd investigate that separately. That research has been launched and I expect that will be ready by the summer of 2017. In doing so, I will also give effect to that motion. Mrs Voortman and Mr Potters are right that it is very important to be able to put the finger on the differences that you see now, that variation in the field. Some institutions appear to be perfectly capable of doing well, but others are not. There may be objective explanations for this, such as Mrs Bergkamp's story about the real estate, but there may also be explanations for this that indicate that it simply needs to be done differently. Where that is the case, it should also be the incentive to achieve this. I have already said the necessary about the plan of action of the Healthcare Institute. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if the guide had been tested at more than six healthcare institutions. She doesn't think that's enough, by the way. The guide has already been reviewed by eight institutions. This year we will test them even further at 25 institutions. We will also continue to do so, because I imagine that this guidance is not a snapshot, but is constantly evolving, for example through the development of care gravity. However, the guide is already good enough to get on with it. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked me to direct now. Here in this Chamber, we have established the rules and how we should deal with the Quality Institute. This requires support in the field. We need to take enough time to do that. If you can't do that, the Health Institute will have a perseverance force. That is exactly the direction I am taking: we said 1 October, that moment has been exceeded, which means that the healthcare institute's perseverance power is now being activated. That seems to me to be a good thing. Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's question about mental care. The quality of life becomes very important. This is based more on the client's wish. It's about the client and his well-being, and therefore mental well-being. If a resident wants spiritual care, it comes to mind. That is incredibly important to him or her for the quality of life. That is precisely why this quality of life component is so important. It will therefore be included in the care life plan and will be dealt with within the framework of the quality framework. The client must be listened to, even when it comes to issues of meaning. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked if ActiZ and V&VN would consider whether peer review would be an important issue. I have already discussed this with ActiZ and ActiZ is also considering whether we should organise this peer review with each other. I would welcome that. I know the sector is already working on that. I can well imagine that peer review, or a form of visitation, will become a normal part of improving quality in the sector. I would point out that this is already the case in disability care. We can learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u232	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Volp asked whether the staff guidance board would also be included within the quality framework. I have responded extensively to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u233	On the penultimate point, I would like to make a comment. That might save a motion. We have often talked about peer review. I think we've been doing that for a couple of years. The Secretary of State thinks it's a good instrument, me too, and I think the rest of the Chamber too, but it rarely gets off the ground. The Secretary of State says ActiZ is working on it again. Shouldn't we also give it an impetus by saying: organize it now and include V&VN as well. Get to work with that, so we can make sure it's coming from the ground up. We've been talking about this for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u234	I am very willing to use ActiZ and V&VN to see if we should give that a further boost. I know that's important to everyone. Mrs Dik-Faber is right: this should also be encouraged in the light of the development of the new quality framework. So I'm telling her this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u235	I thank the Secretary of State for the commitment. When will we get a feedback on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u236	On the road to 1 January, we will review the state of play in the quality framework in a report. I will take this point with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u237	When will this report be published?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u238	That will be at the end of the year. Mrs Volp asked if we have enough staff and what about the labour market. I think that is a very fair question, because not only in the care sector, but more widely, there is an ageing labour market. Is the care sector attractive enough? Is there sufficient training? New labour market forecasts for the coming years will be created this autumn. Then we also have a little more focus on the possible consequences and possible deficits in the longer term. There are signs of shortages in training; there are also solutions in the vein of retraining, more hours of work and making the profession more attractive. On all these issues I am talking to ActiZ, the FNV, the CNV and the VNG within the framework of the broad labour market agenda. Perhaps I should give Mrs Volp a commitment to consider, in the light of this labour market report, before the end of the year, whether I can deal specifically with the problem of work in the care sector, after consultation with all the parties involved. Mrs Volp has a point. We must already consider how the labour market in care is going to develop and how we can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u239	When does the Secretary of State expect that monitor? Can this be done before the budgetary procedure, so that, if necessary, we can use data to adapt policy to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u240	It'll be there by the end of the year. I can't promise for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u241	I welcome this commitment, but I would like to specify it further. One of the major problems is that the attractiveness of the sector is not increased by the way it is in the news. Can the Secretary of State consider in the consultation whether there is any other way we can do something about the imagery? I am willing to put my hand into my own bosom and to deal with it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u242	The best deal would be no one to the paper without my permission. But I know my limitations. I think it is indeed very important to be careful with each other. We must put good examples in the spotlight to learn from them, but we must also correct bad examples. We must ensure that the bad examples are used to determine the picture of the sector. We all have to deal with that, including all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u243	I have held a motion on the possible mismatch between staff and the question of care earlier. Can the Secretary of State, if he does come forward with the labour market report, also specifically address this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u244	You are quite right; we shall do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u245	Please continue. How far along are you, by the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u246	I have two more speakers to deal with. Mr Krol has made a number of comments, which I think I have already answered. I will answer Mr Krol's questions for you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u247	Well, the employees are listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u248	I endorse his call. It is very good to look back so that we can find out why certain things have not gone well and with whom we have made all kinds of arrangements. It is now important that we all work together under the leadership of the Healthcare Institute on a good quality framework in terms of quality of life, personnel composition and safety. We must indeed do so in order to ensure that we can take a major step forward on 1 January. That is how I translate Mr Krol's appeal. Mr Potters asked whether the IGZ would maintain the quality framework from January onwards. The answer to that is yes. The IGZ is already setting up a new supervisory framework and monitoring instrument for nursing homes. The IGZ will test this new instrument in November and will start its application in January. The instrument is, of course, also based on the insights of the current quality framework. Mr Potters also asked a number of questions about ActiZ. We've had big conversations, let me put it this way. ActiZ said she's going to deliver, and that's a good step. But we all know that the quality of nursing homes is not a quick fix. I understand that sometimes the industry organization is concerned about the imagery. Mrs. Volp mentioned that as well. I understand that very well. But that should never be a reason to say: we are not going to provide data. I have made firm statements on this. I cannot imagine that we cannot work together with ActiZ to improve the quality of nursing homes. I have faith in that. I am also confident that the sector will take the lead in its further implementation, as there is a common interest. The people who work in this beautiful sector every day must, as I said at the beginning of my speech, be able to say proud of a birthday: I work in nursing care and look how beautiful it is! That is the situation we must pursue with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u249	I agree with the Secretary of State that we need to ensure good imagery. But then it is also important that ActiZ does not refuse to cooperate by not providing the very basic information we need to know if a nursing home is safe. So the Secretary of State can also do something about that image. I asked the Secretary of State if he still thinks ActiZ is a fully-fledged interlocutor. I understand now that ActiZ has apologized to the Secretary of State. I think that is very important, even if it is mainly an excuse to the inhabitants and to the people who have been in extra uncertainty. But how seriously does the Secretary of State take ActiZ at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u250	We've had some serious conversations. I wish to take ActiZ very seriously, but I also address her on her responsibility. We should not talk about whether or not to provide data. The sector must take the lead in quality development. Let me say that I have no doubt of the industry organisation's commitment. It is in everyone's interest that we should be proud of this sector. Quality developments are incredibly important to pursue. We have already mentioned that there are great challenges in the labour market and that they are going to pose very important issues. The same applies to the development of care gravity in nursing homes. Let's not have an easy story with each other. Mr Potters is right that we should not kissed each other about providing data. We need to work together and shoulder to shoulder on the future of nursing care. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u251	Does the Secretary of State agree if I conclude that the way ActiZ has acted is: once, but never again? Does he agree that on the basis of this warning we can at least assume that this will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u252	That's what I'm assuming. Mr Potters specifically asked whether the safety of medication would be compromised by all the discussions. That is not the case. As we know, the IGZ is updating the list as part of the motion, so to speak. There is now a "hear and hear" procedure for some organisations, to put it simply. The IGZ takes the final judgment into account in the update of the list and will, as we know, be available to the Chamber at the end of October. There are no delays. Finally, Mr Potters asked whether we would consider the desirable rather than the actual situation in the cost assessment of the Healthcare Authority. Of course, you can't set a rate on something you won't get for another ten years. But I understand Mr Potters very well, because when you talk about tariffs, of course, you also have to take into account the current developments in the care gravity. I think it would be good if I took that explicitly with the Healthcare Authority once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u253	We have thus come to the end of the answer given by the Secretary of State in the first term. I'm gonna talk to you for a second, see if we can suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u254	We're not suspending for lunch anyway. We are going to keep the second term first, because the spokesmen need it. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including the tabling of motions. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u255	Mr. Chairman. It is sad to hear the Secretary of State say that there is no quick fix for improving staffing, while we have seen in child care that within a year and a half more staff were arranged. At 12,000 childcare locations there are standard two people in a group because this serves safety. There are less than 3,000 locations for care of the elderly. That's gotta be doable, right? There is a fix. Anyway, we're not getting anywhere. The Secretary of State thinks I should be pleased with the guidance that is now in place. Let me try to sharpen it a little bit. To that end, I shall table two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality framework and guidance are a dialogue tool;]] [[believes that this is far too non-binding and gives management and administration the power to ignore their caregivers and nurses;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Health Inspectorate ensures that the voice of the workplace is actually heard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that adequate and well-trained staff are the basis for good and decent care;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State says that the Head of Responsible Staff composition leads to better staffing and starts on 1 January 2017;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Responsible Personnel Composition Guidance is binding and to send the Chamber an overview of the extension of staffing in the nursing homes before 1 March 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-237]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u256	I have a short question. Where is the guide now being tested and what are the results? Can the room get that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u257	We have had this debate this week as a matter of urgency because the SP asked the question of confidence. However, I did not hear Mrs Leijten again in the debate. I'd like to get some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u258	I believe that the Secretary of State has not sufficiently worked on the occupation standard. He thinks this is an occupation standard. In practice, let's check if this is an occupation standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u259	Mr. Chairman. I find it very disappointing that the Secretary of State has not been obstructed over the past four years by the trade associations as regards the closure of nursing homes and the major cuts in daily spending, community care and community care. When it comes to the fact that the Secretary of State also wants to do something about the quality in the nursing homes for the most vulgar people in our country, he is suddenly against the wind. Of course, that's because he made the blacklist public. I hope that in the last months of his term of office the Secretary of State will still have the opportunity to do something about quality. We will therefore be monitoring progress closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u260	Mr. Chairman. Good care for our most vulnerable fellows is a matter of civilisation. According to the CDA, this debate is essentially about this. Only the last few weeks have given a different picture. I called that a show. Joint energy in quality of care; that is what it should be about. But what is quality of care? According to residents, a study by the Dutch Patient Federation shows that this is sufficient attention from the staff: a cup of coffee and good food. This is a matter of course, but as far as the CDA is concerned, this is based on basic safety. That's what we're going to bet on right now. How do we reduce the time a nurse is behind a computer? Because we can put four or five people on a group of eight residents, but if they're behind the PC for the most part of their time, you still have nothing. The Secretary of State's commitment is to reduce rules. And yet we see the opposite. Rules are increasing. Digging lists are increasing. Mr Bergkamp will therefore be tabling a motion on my behalf in order to do something about this. After all, people went to work in care to care. Let us make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u261	Mr. Chairman. I have another question for the Secretary of State. In the interruption with the VVD, I raised the question whether the NZa will also look at the desirable situation in the pricing investigation and not just at the actual situation. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to this question. Then I shall table a motion which has already been well introduced by Mrs Keijzer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the administrative burden in nursing homes and other health care establishments is inconceivable;]] [[Whereas this is partly due to the request for registrations which may be independent of the quality and/or safety of care;]] [[believes that this will waste valuable time for nurses and caregivers and that unnecessary double registrations will not contribute to quality care;]] [[considers that quality of care is determined in the relationship between the person who needs care and the person who provides care;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with professional associations and inter-branch organisations, to examine which registrations are unnecessary and unnecessary because they do not contribute to the quality and safety of care and to immediately delete them and inform the Court of Justice of this before January 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u262	Mr. Chairman. First, I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Cabinet claims to invest 210 million for training and additional day-to-day spending activities;]] [[whereas according to the Central Planning Bureau, a further EUR 200 million in savings on the Long-Term Care Act has to be completed and it is unclear how the Cabinet intends to complete it and whether this is possible;]] [[Whereas clarity on this is necessary for the assessment of effective measures under the Long-Term Care Act;]] [[points out that the government needs to provide insight into where these EUR 200 million in savings in the Long-Term Care Act should be obtained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u263	It is clear that I would like to have that clarity for dealing with the VWS budget. In our view, the policy of the homes and the policy of the cabinet with the cuts are the reason that the current care situation is so bad. Then it is very strange that in the meantime, among other things by the VVD, it is claimed that there is investment in healthcare. That's like taking someone's hot meal first, saying "nothing to eat is so much," then giving them a sandwich and then saying: what extra food can you eat thanks to us. That is all the more true when you consider that there is still 200 million savings to be made on long-term care, because that cut is on the VWS budget. Only we don't know where the blow is gonna take place yet. Is it the handicapped? Is it the elders? We don't know. The cabinet has to be honest about this before dealing with the VWS budget so that we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u264	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to discuss peer review with ActiZ and V&VN and to inform the Court of Justice before the end of the year. I will not therefore table that motion. I do have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of a change from quality of care to quality of life and well-being, consideration should also be given to questions of meaning among residents of nursing homes;]] [[Whereas in the quality framework mental care is covered by the term "well-being";]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the Health Institute, to explicitly give a place within the theme of "Quality of life and well-being,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u265	Mr. Chairman. Let me try to bring forward the positive results of this debate. We have once again shared our concern about the quality of care for our elderly. We must start with the necessary cultural change. The quality framework shall follow a fixed order. 1. What's in the client's best interest? 2. How does the healthcare professional fit in with that? 3. How does the care organisation create the conditions for this? Not thinking from systems, as the Patient Federation indicates, but from the client and his neighbors. What does it matter? What do they need? I would once again call on all those involved to use what lies before 1 January, on 1 January, as a basis for starting that cultural change. Once again, I would like to say that we are not taking sad tweets and taking seriously any guidance that is supported by the professional organizations, negative reporting and threatening motions of mistrust, worthy of dealing with what people do on the floor day in and day out. I think it is important that we all work together on the quality and quality of the work that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u266	The Secretary of State was out of control until yesterday. No information was provided on basic safety. That situation has lapsed and therefore the question of trust is no longer acute. I do not want to be challenged here by Mrs Volp if the situation has simply changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u267	The motion that hung in the air was based on the incorrect execution of a motion co-signed by my party. I believe that the Secretary of State has done everything that many parties have not come out of. It is not neat to then threaten with a motion of censure and then not to apologize for the fact that that is not necessary. Now things are being tightened up with a few motions. It is said that the guide is not serious enough while it is supported by professional organisations. I think this should be said. We are standing here again and we need to talk about nursing care in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u268	That is the answer to the question that has not been asked by Mr Leijten. I was just making a very different remark. A few days ago, the current situation was very different: a powerless Secretary of State who was blackmailed by the industry organisations by not providing information to the inspection for which he is responsible. That is extremely serious and that is why we supported this debate and the desire to have this debate very quickly. That situation changed yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u269	And last week, there was no guidance. It was presented Monday. Last week it had already been 1 October, the date on which the Secretary of State had promised that the guideline would be there. So when I asked for the debate, there were two issues. The motion had not been carried out and ActiZ had suspended all data exchange. The Labour Party felt that this was so serious that she immediately asked questions about it in the Chamber. Now it's said it was untimely. The Secretary of State has defended himself and apparently he has done so to the extent that I say: let's see how we proceed with that guidance. I have just given that answer to Mrs Bergkamp. It's kind of acid to end up like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u270	Do I have to respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u271	You're free to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u272	Last week, Mrs Leijten was very upset at the regulation of work that the Secretary of State would not carry out her motion. I think today's conclusion is that the Secretary of State may be even more effective in carrying out her motion. I want that said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u273	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his clear explanation and, above all, for the sharp expression in today's debate. In any case, we have a little more insight into how the directive is actually going to work. I'm full of one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, under the Dignity and Proud Programme, the nursing home sector has received a structural additional 210 million by 2020 to improve the quality of care by, inter alia, more and more qualified staff;]] [[Whereas the sector is currently not sufficiently constructive to achieve these quality improvements through the organisation of the ActiZ interest groups;]] [[noting that nursing homes have been able to submit plans supported by the Client Board or the Nursing Advisory Board for, inter alia, more qualified staff;]] [[Calls on the Government to demonstrate to the healthcare offices from 2017 that the plans submitted are actually being implemented and improve quality in nursing homes;]] [[In addition, if it appears that there is no full implementation of the plans, the Government requests that the funds made available be recovered and that these funds be redistributed to the nursing homes which can prove this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Potters and Mr Volp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u274	One of the problems facing us is that there are not enough HBO nurses. We agree that they are necessary. There was a pretty successful campaign, there's more to it than that, to convince people to take the step towards care for the elderly. VWS has stopped doing that. Does Mr Potters believe that this is a missed opportunity and that this campaign should be restarted with the support of VWS?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u275	If the campaign actually helps with more enthusiasm for and attraction of care for the elderly, I am fine with continuing it. But this is a question of the effectiveness of the campaign. I cannot answer that and should be put to the Secretary of State. If the campaign is effective, I would say, above all, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u276	The question has been forwarded to the Secretary of State for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u277	The Secretary of State doesn't have all the motions yet, so we're just waiting for them to be copied. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u278	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten asked where the guide was and will be tested. I say to her that I will include the answer to that question in the answers at the USA Dignity and pride, which are still coming to the Chamber before the budgetary procedure. Then I can specifically inform her about the way this happened. I come to the motions, first of all the motion in part No. 237, in which the government is asked to ensure that the inspection ensures that the voice of the workplace is heard. Let us not change roles. The inspection must monitor the quality. Part of that quality is that the personnel composition is good. It is a normal practice for organisations to hear the voice of the workplace. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 238 in which the government is asked to ensure that the guidance is binding. I propose to Mrs Leijten to hold this motion until we have the report from the Healthcare Institute. Then we can see what that guidance is and to what extent it can be prescribed bindingly. We can then combine this with the report I am reporting on the situation in the labour market, so that we can look at these issues in conjunction. My proposal is therefore that Mrs Leijten should continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u279	Until when?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u280	Until I get the report from the Healthcare Institute. That will be at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u281	I am prepared to do so, but I would be happy if the Secretary of State now declared that he had a positive attitude. In the first term, he said on many questions from me and from Mrs Voortman: that guidance really leads to a certain line-up standard, although it is flexible. If that shatters a little bit, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u282	That is not the intention at all. I said that the guide is part of the quality framework. The Healthcare Institute is working on that. I think it would be wise to wait for this to happen, so that we can make a good assessment of what can and cannot be done, also on a proposal from the Health Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u283	Mrs. Leijten, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u284	I told you I'd like to hold the motion, but it's crazy. The Healthcare Institute will soon come up with a directive and a guide, but they would not be binding on the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u285	We are not going to have that discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u286	I didn't say that at all. I just want to wait and see what the Healthcare Institute comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u287	Mrs. Leijten, are you holding the motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u288	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u289	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion (Doc. 238). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u290	I'll come to the motion in part No. 239. The government is invited to examine which registrations are unnecessary and unnecessary because they do not contribute to the relational quality. I very much agree with this and consider the motion to support policy. January 2017 is very fast, so I would like to add that remark. We can tell each other how important we consider this motion to be. If I could get a little more time, for example until 1 March, I'd leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u291	I'm very surprised. We have had the low-level experimental institutions. There were 26 institutions involved. There are 680 rules logged in. A few months ago, I gave them to the Secretary of State. So it's all over. Mrs Bergkamp's motion is therefore completely superfluous. And then the Secretary of State calls the motion policy support. Why doesn't he just look up the rules he already has?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u292	We have talked about this before. The material of the Experiment Relaxed Institutions has already been incorporated in some regulations. In addition, we use it for the scrap sessions to start. I consider the motion to be an extra boost: let us move very quickly to the deletion of registrations, and literally and figuratively free up money for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u293	I agree with the Secretary of State's interpretation. March 1st is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u294	Thank you. In the motion in part No. 240 is being asked to provide us with an insight into where the 200 million additional cuts in Wlz should come from. I would like to say to Mrs Voortman that I make it clear in a letter before the budget debate. Otherwise, the misunderstanding arises that I do not understand exactly what cuts I have yet to make, which I am not aware of.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u295	I think that's a good idea. For the VWS budget, we are getting clarity about this, and that is why I can withdraw this motion. Or should I arrest her for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u296	You don't have to. Don't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u297	I doubt, because if I do not like the answer, I still have to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u298	You may still hold the motion until the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u299	I'll hold the motion. That's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u300	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (31765, No. 240). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u301	The motion in part No. 241.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u302	In this motion we are asked to give a place within the theme "quality of life" in consultation with the Health Institute. I have indicated that it fits within the current definition of quality of life, but I am fine with giving it to the Healthcare Institute. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 242 actually says: if the plans are not implemented, then we must recover them. I agree with the thrust of the motion. The health offices make agreements every year about, among other things, the implementation of the additional resources. I interpret the motion in such a way that it says: yes, that is nice, but then you have to look at what has happened so far and let that affect the agreements you make. If I can interpret the word "requisite" in such a way that it means that the healthcare offices will take it with them in the follow-up shopping conversations, I think we will avoid a whole lot of bureaucracy. Mr President, I think that is precisely why Mrs Keijzer is going to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u303	But it is Mr Potters' and Mrs Volp's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u304	Of course, it says "recover," but we are concerned that there will be consequences if you do not meet the demands of more and more qualified staff. If we don't take those consequences into account, I'd think that's a damn shame of the extra investments we've made. The fact that we're doing it in advance is fine, but I assume we can get that money back if it turns out that the money has been clearly spent wrongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u305	Really badly spent? I would point out, however, that we have said in the design of the plans that we should not make new plans or a new system of accountability. There must be agreement from the staff and from the client council, the light test. I am a little hesitant because I do not know if I can say that from the President, but we have done so in response to a request from Mrs Keijzer. Now Mr Potters is right to say, that is also the thrust of the motion, that it cannot be that money is being given but we cannot see at all what has come of it. I would indeed like to pass that on to the Healthcare Institute, and I would also like to take the same test, namely that the client councils and staff can say: has any of it turned out? This will then have an impact on the purchase for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u306	Everything the Secretary of State said in this section about what I said is true. On the contrary, I was very worried that a huge part of that 200 million would be spent on paper. Do I have to understand this motion in such a way that we will have all sorts of questions about how the 200 million was spent? I hear the Secretary of State say no outside the microphone now, but if that is really the case, then this is a motion that cannot be carried out, because how can you ever claim back?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u307	I have understood Mr Potters in such a way that he says: if it is stated by the client council or the staff that the funds made available have not been spent or have been wrongly spent, then the healthcare office could quite rightly say that it does not want to make any new arrangements. In that sense, I agree with the thrust of the motion. I leave it to the House to decide on the motion, but with the comment I have made. A specific question has been asked about the campaign. The social partners in the VVT have said that they are continuing this campaign. This means that there is no reason for VWS to continue to participate in this. Moreover, we will review this in the context of the forthcoming labour market debate. It is very good to see how the labour market is developing in the healthcare sector. This discussion may lead to a review of the need to launch a campaign. I would like to take that point with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u308	Mrs. Bergkamp, did you happen to leave a question? I'm asking, because that's the only way you can ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u309	As a matter of fact, I do. I asked if the NZa would investigate the actual pricing and the wishes in terms of staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u310	I have answered my argument, but I would like to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u311	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u312	Of course, the NZa cannot say what the rate will be in ten years' time if we do not know what it is yet. I understand the question in such a way that it is of course not only important to look at what is happening now, but also to look at what is happening in the area of care. I'd like to pass that on to the Healthcare Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u313	We will vote on the motions tabled the week after the autumn recess. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.55 p.m.
