ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to welcome the participants in the debate on the climate summit in Paris. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery, the official support and all those who follow this programme through other channels. There are nine speakers who have a maximum of four minutes each. We agreed that two interruptions would be allowed per person and they would go in two. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is twenty years since a committee of inquiry was set up for the first time in the Lower House. Exactly twenty years ago, this committee held a three-day hearing, so I say to my fellow Members on all aspects of climate change. It was already concluded at that time that there was a huge amount of information and that it was important for the national interest of the Netherlands to anticipate future climate policy early because of the Dutch energy-intensive economy. I'd say "unever nor." I would like to congratulate this Secretary of State for her preparation, commitment, implementation and the way in which Members of Parliament were informed and updated in Paris. I also congratulate her on the high degree of accessibility. I would actually like to congratulate everyone on the result achieved. Yeah, it's never enough, but an incredibly much better than what we had before. Then the fear was that it would never work, that we wouldn't get the world together again. One of the things that I am delighted about in the report is a 1.5 ̊C target. It's got to go that way. On this point there is an approved motion by the colleague of the Christian Union and myself. I would like to know from the Secretary of State if she has had an opportunity to see how she intends to implement that motion. Has it had a chance to discuss this further in Europe? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, rapid ratification of the Convention is needed. If 55 countries have ratified and 55% of emissions are affected, the Convention will enter into force. The sooner the better! The French parliament managed that last Tuesday. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what is the first time that we can do that in the Netherlands. Perhaps this can still be done during the period when the Netherlands is President. That would be a very good example. In order to achieve the goals of the climate agreement, a large part of the well-known oil, gas and coal supply must remain underground worldwide. Over the last few weeks, citizens have protested against additional fossil fuel extraction worldwide under the title "keep it under the ground." Would the Secretary of State like to discuss the following in the cabinet? Is it not right that there should be a stop on new drillings in the Netherlands until it is clear what the Dutch individual plan is and whether or not additional fossil extractions fit in with it? Now and then a certain drilling is stopped, for example on Terschelling, while other drilling continues. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate the impact of the climate agreement on the Dutch climate and energy targets of 2030? The energy agreement has a fairly steep path, but you can see that again in the current projections. Of course, we don't all want that. Would the Secretary of State like to have a map of how she's going to work on that? What about the Claver motion on climate finance? There's a lot of climate refugees coming. The Netherlands wants to contribute to the solution of the problem through climate finance. How's that going? The Netherlands is only one part of the Kingdom. The Treaty is concluded for the whole of the Kingdom. There is an approved Van Tongeren motion on the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, which states that the Netherlands will support the countries there to implement the climate agreement. How's that going? The interests of future generations in the climate are of course very important but not so carefully anchored. One of GroenLinks' ideas is to look at something like a Commissioner or an Ombudsman for the future. What are the reflections and thoughts of the Secretary of State on this? Can it give us some insight into how the coordination of climate and energy policies now works? We have Minister Kamp with the energy agreement, we have this Secretary of State with the Treaty of Paris and also with the Urgenda court case, we have Minister Dijsselbloem with an opinion from the Netherlands Bank and his portfolio of state participations and we have Minister Schultz, who has just received a very nice pass-through of all the different transport options in the Netherlands. I see I've run out of time, so I have to finish up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs Dik-Faber, speaking on behalf of the Christian Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u4	Mr. Chairman. We must fight climate change to leave a living earth for our children and grandchildren. The urgency is enormous. The KNMI warns of an extra meter sea level increase and the Dutch Bank says that the economic costs of waiting with energy transition can be huge and that a carbon bubble threatens because companies have large oil and coal stocks on the balance sheet. Today's economy no longer exists in a few decades. Are we shifting the immense account, financially and ecologically, to the next generations or are we taking action now? The Christian Union welcomes the climate agreement concluded in Paris. I was there myself, and I tasted the urgency. The ambition is good: up to 1.5°C temperature increase, but in any case not more than 2°C. Now it's about action, but where are they? When will the climate agreement be ratified? This Chamber has adopted a motion from, among other things, my group to start implementing the Urgendaklimate sentence as early as 2016. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Paris goes even further than the Urgendavonnis, against which the cabinet appealed. The Secretary of State said in Trouw that the Paris agreement is now leading. Does this mean that tomorrow the cabinet will withdraw the appeal against Urgenda and will now be fully committed to more than 25% CO reduction by 2020? Countries such as Germany and Denmark are now even heading for 40% reduction by 2020. It is good that the energy agreement measures are now becoming more binding, but where is the plus of the agreement that is really needed to achieve the Paris objectives? Will the Secretary of State send this plan to the Chamber for the summer? The ETS emissions trading system has been in existence for about ten years and has, in fact, mainly resulted in disappointments. The ambition is really far too low. The surplus of free rights is huge, which makes the price laughably low. A motion by the Christian Union and GroenLinks has recently been adopted asking for the 1.5°C goal of the climate to be the starting point for ETS reform. Will the Secretary of State now make proposals that bring EU climate ambitions in line with the 1.5°C objective? As far as we are concerned, a minimum price within ETS is really necessary. Will the Secretary of State propose this within the EU on 20 June, now that the United Kingdom is already doing so and France is considering it? Is it prepared to discuss this with neighbouring countries when there is still no support for this in the rest of the EU on 20 June? What about the revision of the Ecodesign Directive? Motions have also been adopted in the Chamber, including those of my group. The climate agreement will bring about major changes in our laws and regulations, to the detriment of the old fossil interests. The Christian Union believes that measures resulting from the climate agreement should not be challenged on the basis of trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA or lead to high claims for damages. There is a motion from me and Mr Klaver on a carve-out for the climate treaty in new trade and investment treaties. Unfortunately, this is not in the treaty, but we can still settle it in TTIP and CETA. I will therefore have an amended motion put to the vote next week. It is disappointing that there are no agreements to ensure that climate finance for developing countries increases. The funds for adaptation are growing too slowly and money for mitigation is largely spent on large-scale renewable energy projects in middle income countries where private funding is also available for such projects. Decentralised energy generation offers opportunities to reach poor people in remote areas who do not yet have access to clean and reliable energy. Can the Dutch government commit itself in the EU, in the Green Climate Fund and in relevant financial institutions to a higher spending rate of mitigation financing for access to energy for the poorest? I'm rounding up. We are talking here about caring for our planet, the future of our children and God's creation. Every man, every country has a responsibility in it and will have to do its part. It's also about doing justice: doing justice to this planet and doing justice to creation. I look forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Paris Climate Summit did not lead to harsh agreements, but something has happened. Paris may not have saved the planet, but perhaps Paris has the chance to save the planet. It has been agreed to try to limit global warming to far below 2oC, preferably up to a maximum of 1,5oC. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that 2oC is not really an option, but that the Netherlands should make full bets at a maximum of 1,5oC? However, in order to achieve this, we need to do much more than we do now. We know that emissions from the EU and the Netherlands should be reduced by at least 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. It's possible. However, let us not wait until it is too late! This Secretary of State knows that the consequences of being late are simply unacceptable. So let us not wait for the five-yearly evaluation! The Secretary of State has a few weeks left to argue, as President of the EU, that the EU should assume its historic and current responsibility and set ambitious targets for reducing CO emissions. To say goodbye to fossil fuels as soon as possible is part of this. However, the real key lies in the old file of this Secretary of State: agriculture. Climate smart agriculture is not trying to reduce the enormous methane emissions of a cow by a few percent. No, climate-smart agriculture is so innovative that cow, pig and chicken are no longer needed in the chain from field to mouth; that is our food. Without additional measures in agriculture, we cannot save the climate. Reducing the number of animals in the livestock industry and reducing our large meat and dairy consumption are the most effective and, moreover, the cheapest climate measures that this government can take. The World Food Organization calculated that global emissions from the livestock industry are over 7 gigatons. That's 7 billion kilos of greenhouse gas, or a seven with 12 zeros. That's an incredibly large number. The World Food Organization doesn't get around to it. Global livestock production accounts for 15% of all greenhouse emissions from human activities and one of the biggest drivers of climate change. Denmark is now considering introducing a meat tax to comply with the Paris agreements. The Danish Ethics Council proposes: Denmark still has a long way to go in terms of sustainability. Only calling on consumers to reduce their meat consumption is not effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u6	I hear the spokesman for the Animal Party talking about the emissions from livestock farming. But do I also hear him say that we should stop eating meat and animal products? Is that what Mr Wassenberg says?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u7	No, you can't hear the spokesman of the Party before the Animals say that. What you do hear from the Party for Animals is that we produce far too many animals in the Netherlands. At present more than 500 million animals are bred and slaughtered in the Netherlands per year. That's way too much. The World Health Organisation has said that it emits far too much greenhouse gas. If we want to do something about this, this is the obvious, fastest, easiest and cheapest method of reducing CO emissions and, in particular, methane production. You also know that methane gas, which is mainly emitted by cows, is a 20 times higher greenhouse gas than CO. I am not talking about the need for the whole of the Netherlands to become vegetarian, and I am not talking about the fact that no animal can be bred anymore. However, I note that 80% of meat and dairy production is currently exported. I'll tell you what, we're gonna have to cut that down a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u8	This does make me curious. I know the views of the Animal Party. They have now been explained. I wonder how Mr Wassenberg is going to convince the rest of the world. That is where people want prosperity and growth. How is Mr Wassenberg going to do this? People want a piece of meat, more protein or more prosperity there at some point. How is Mr Wassenberg going to save the world? Of course, it does not stop doing this in the Netherlands alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u9	We have a very nice principle, namely that the polluter must pay. I am now going to call for meat production to pay for pollution by those who use the products. In this case, that is the consumer. I'm gonna go further in my story on the meat tax. I do not therefore call for everything to be abolished immediately and brought down to zero. However, I would argue that these costs should be paid fairly to those where they should end up. That is what consumers are doing in this case. I'm gonna get back to that meat tax. In fact, collecting such a meat tax is nothing more than consistently implementing the polluter-pays principle; I have just said that. It's nothing but a smart way to price CO. That, by the way, is something the Secretary of State also wants. I congratulate her on her efforts to achieve a global CO price. However, the Secretary of State knows as well as I do that it is a matter of a very long time. We should not wait for that, but set a good example ourselves. Increasing VAT on products that have a high impact, such as meat and dairy, would be a good step towards discounting the environmental damage in the price of the product. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue in the Cabinet, now that negotiations on the budget for next year begin? I conclude by expressing great concern about the lack of adequate climate finance for the countries most affected, while at the same time contributing least to global warming. They must be helped to bear the disastrous consequences of drought, floods and sea level rises. We're not doing enough worldwide. Here too, there is an opportunity for the Secretary of State to show what she showed in Paris, namely that she is a masterful negotiator. Will it ensure that the promised climate finance is additional to the development cooperation budget, as has ever been promised? I'd like to hear a response. I have finished my speech and I have four seconds left of my speaking time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u10	Yeah, but that's only two now. Thank you very much for this exemplary contribution. I call Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u11	Mr. Chairman. Even in the Dutch coastal defense, I suspect that it is the best in the world.It is almost impossible to build against a sea level that is 15 meters higher. So let's see together that prevention is better than cure, and that prevention is also a lot cheaper than cure. So there is every reason to get to work quickly. The Paris Agreement was a historic milestone. But Paris was not a result, but above all a start. The success of Paris must be demonstrated in its implementation. I think we are well aware in this Chamber that the real key to combating climate change is not in Europe, but in developing countries. However, they do need three things from us. First of all, they need money. I ask the Secretary of State how we are going to ensure that the poorest have access to renewable energy. Secondly, they need technological development, and thirdly, the good example. We cannot ask the developing countries to make that huge change if we are not prepared to do the same ourselves. I'm talking about setting an example. Europe has already promised a 40% reduction and wants to reduce more than other countries do more. But that 40% was over 2C. In the meantime, however, we have agreed that we are working for 1.5C. That is what is in the agreement now, and so it is also very much a question of what we are going to prepare for, what Europe is going to do, so that we ourselves can live up to what we have fought so hard for. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. How are we gonna do that? Is this 1.5C also the starting point for the Secretary of State in the discussions in Brussels? If you promise something, you must at least have taken credible measures to deliver on the promise. Our most important instrument, emissions trading, is not yet delivering the price that really unlocks innovation and savings. To achieve the goals and for a real price, the number of rights needs to be reduced much further. Is the Secretary of State gonna push for a stronger reduction factor? I think it is quite clear that when a major polluter, such as a coal power plant, finally closes the doors, you must at least take those rights out of the system immediately, otherwise you will only increase the surplus. The European Parliament has put forward proposals for this. Is the Secretary of State going to embrace them? Is she going to try to get it through the Council? I have one brief comment to make on shipping, which really needs my attention. The outcome of the IMO consultation on what shipping, also a huge extortion, can do, was downright disappointing. How can we proceed with that? If we are to think about repairing the ETS, we also need to think about other solutions that we can choose if the ETS would not lead to a further stimulating price of CO............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Secretary of State says she doesn't want a bottom prize. Moreover, in the recent ibo report, this bottom price comes out of the bus as a very efficient measure. Is that what we're gonna do? What solution does the Secretary of State propose to achieve that objective of 1.5°C? For this she has walked the fire out of the slippers in Paris. This was nice to see; all the compliments for her in that regard. Apart from the question of whether it is enough, I can see that a lot has happened in the Netherlands in recent years. We have all kinds of lists, measures, responsibilities, plans, an energy agreement, additional measures for Urgenda, the Autobrief II, all kinds of funds aimed at isolating homes, investments and innovation through top sector policies, but this does not always fit in seamlessly with each other. Moreover, we now actually have two ministries responsible. We have the Ministry of Infrastructure and Environment, which negotiates on the objectives and we have the Ministry of EZ, which negotiates on the measures. There's air in here and there's a loss of efficiency. For example, we see that the Secretary of State in Brussels is negotiating a 1.5°C target and a few months later an ECN study shows that we are already not going to achieve the 2020 targets. We see, for example, that a nice plan by Jan Vos is being launched to abolish the petrol car and that there is an Auto Letter showing that the average CO emissions from a leasing car are going up by a quarter. That's not unwillingness, it's lack of coordination. D66 would like to see one minister responsible for energy and climate in a subsequent cabinet and one integrated plan in which all the good proposals made by several colleagues in the Chamber have been consistently designed. If Mr Vos already has a closet full of delta plans, we'll call that different, but it's about consistent policy and I hope to be able to work with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u12	Mr. Chairman. A nice end to Mrs Van Veldhoven's speech; I fully agree with that. It's nice to talk about this subject. It also reminds me of Paris where the Secretary of State has traveled many kilometres for the pleasure or displeasure of all kinds of colleagues, with the aim of achieving the best possible result. I'm gonna talk about this most of all. What's gonna happen now? She sent a letter about this, so I can sort of take the timeline out. I see that we have to wait for the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal before we see the concrete measures. I'm sorry about that, because it's gonna take a while. I'd like to see her light up a few tips from the veil. If the proposal comes before us as a law, is it also referendable? We may also have to take that into account. The objectives that the climate agreement is going to generate here are important, but I believe that the Urgenda statement will be a guiding factor for us. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she sees it that way and whether the Urgenda ruling is binding on her. It should lead, in our view, to a set of technical measures and also a set of social measures. The technical measures can be expressed in CO2 equivalents. The question to the Secretary of State is whether, in addition to the low-hanging fruit in terms of CO2 equivalents, the closure of coal power stations or intervention in the transport sector, the Commission also sees a gap in tackling the livestock sector, as Mr Wassenberg said, or in Netting part of the peatfield. You can save a crazy amount of CO2 emissions by not providing parts of the peat meadow with a lower groundwater level every time. The peat just oxidizes after it. It's really very large quantities. Is the Secretary of State open to that? With regard to social measures, I think it is particularly important that, whatever you do, you bear in mind what that means for employment. Is training necessary because old jobs disappear and new jobs are put in place? We must pay particular attention to the fact that the burden and the desire remain roughly in balance. Look at the SDE+ and the regular energy tax and the free allocation of emission allowances to companies: the distribution of the desires and burdens is completely distorted. Actually, you're gonna have to make an independent pass-through. Does the Secretary of State wish to pass on, possibly with a few scenarios, to a CO-neutral society in 2050, making the technical and social route clear? We should not only take measures in the Netherlands. That is already a crazy country with all its ports, heavy industry and large transport sector. That's a hell of a job. Let's just say I see that. Other countries are less affected by this. As far as Europe is concerned, I would like to give the Secretary of State the following: do not let waterbeds and princess tempt you to inactivity every time. If no one moves, it won't make any sense. I always find it a pity that simply the fact that others do not, is used as a reason not to do something. It's got to come from somewhere. If the Poles cling to their coals, try lovingly to guide them to a cleaner way of using energy. I'd like to talk about the ETS another time. I just don't think it's working. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what is going to work: a CO pricing of products and services? She doesn't like to lay a bottom in the ETS, I read somewhere. Or should you apply an import charge at the external border of Europe? This keeps you out of dump steel and other products that now lead to our business not wanting to innovate because they do not have the courage to invest with a long payback period themselves. I have one last sentence on development cooperation. Synergies with the bilateral climate agenda from the BuHa-OS budget and with the Sustainable Development Goals are very necessary to avoid duplication. We can use our expertise, for example in water management, small-scale energy generation or agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u13	The next speaker was Mr Madlener. He looks with expectation for six minutes, but he is also allowed four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u14	I've written a slightly too long text, so I'll look...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u15	Fortunately, you have already deleted it, so that you can reach exactly four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u16	Mr. Chairman. The PVV is against this climate agreement. We think it is a bad agreement for the Netherlands. This agreement will not solve the so-called climate problem, should it exist. Firstly, it is an agreement that will transfer industries and thus emissions to other countries. The Netherlands is already very efficient in terms of energy consumption. It also has fewer opportunities to reduce its emissions cost-effectively. Large industrialised countries such as China need to do much less. It leads to a relocation of our manufacturing industry to other parts of the world. Our companies are just getting out of competition. China approved the plans for the construction of 155 coal plants in 2015 and in the Netherlands we opt for very expensive wind energy. This will lead to high energy prices because of all these subsidies. Wind energy is a very expensive energy right now. Without a subsidy, it cannot compete with, for example, coal flow. Nuclear energy is not even proposed as an alternative in this agreement, but new nuclear technologies are very hopeful for the future. Article 25 of the Convention says that any party who so wishes can terminate the Convention; thank goodness. But this will mean that far from all the countries that sign this treaty will abide by the agreements. They therefore benefit from the strict measures in the Netherlands by competing heavily with our companies and then simply cancel the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u17	Does Mr Madlener know that it is very expensive to produce nuclear energy, especially because of storage? Let me give Germany as an example. The barrels stored in Asse are leaking and it has cost the German taxpayer EUR 4 to 5 billion to clean up this mess. That was not paid for by the business community, but by the taxpayer. Does the PVV also take this into account when talking about the prices of the various energy options?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u18	I see a lot of new techniques being developed. I don't think you should rule that out in advance. Of course there will be incidents. They are also available in sectors such as mining and agriculture. I will mention a few incidents in the area of environmental policy later. So I do not think you can say on the basis of this example that nuclear energy should be excluded now and in the distant future. I don't think that's smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u19	But we're talking about nuclear power today. We're gonna have to do it now with the techniques that are out there. You can say ins Blaue hinein that there may be something in 20 or 30 years' time, but at the moment the production of nuclear energy is still terribly expensive because of the high cost of storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u20	At least it is cheaper than wind energy, especially than wind energy at sea. It's not customary to ask another question, but I want to do it anyway. If, in 20 years' time, it turns out that new forms of nuclear energy, such as thorium, are profitable and possible, is Mr Wassenberg in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u21	Mr Wassenberg can answer that, because that is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u22	Based on what I know now, I really don't expect these thorium plants to supply power within 20 or 30 years. Furthermore, it is a question of dance, but at the moment again: I say that on the basis of what I know now, it does not seem possible that this will be a real and safe power supply in 20 years' time. So the answer is no. I don't see that as an alternative right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u23	As has been said, Article 28 of the Convention means that any party can simply cancel and stop. Donald Trump has already announced that this climate agreement will go off the table if he is elected, and he is right! His argument is also that China will benefit greatly from the expensive measures imposed by the Western countries themselves to achieve the climate targets. The high level of efficiency of the Netherlands in the field of energy consumption therefore gives our country a disadvantage. We no longer have cheap, easy measures and we will therefore be forced to take very expensive and stupid measures. A number of measures taken by the Netherlands are, in fact, bad for the environment. Yeah, you heard right. Our government, for example, with a number of environmental parties, supports the proposal to co-incinerate biomass. That means that for billions of dollars of wood is being cut. Canadian forests are transported to the Netherlands by ship and they will be burned here in our coal plants. It's true! We are causing a huge forest fire in our own coal plants. It's a total disgrace. Everyone in this room knows that, but it still happens. The interests representatives and lobbyists of the new, subsidised sustainability industry have just won it. This is how it is in our country: hypocrisy at the top! I have another example of scandalous environmental policy that has been going on for ten years. It's about mixing biofuels. Huge areas with primordial forests are being hijacked, creating additional agricultural land to grow palm oil and soya. The policy of so-called green parties in this case leads to an unprecedented catastrophe. It's been going on for ten years. I stood here ten years ago and said that it is a disgrace that we continue to do this and it is happening to this day. If you don't believe me, you should google on "Environmental Group Transport and Environment" and "biodiesel," you can read yourself that the use of biodiesel, apart from cutting jungle forests, leads to an additional 4% emission, i.e. the equivalent of 12 million cars. It's on the Internet right now. That's just the news from the past week. I haven't heard of that in this room. No one, not even Mr. Jan Vos. Only Mr Smaling, I think, but now I see him coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u24	The grass is being mowed at my feet. Mr Madlener says that the whole Chamber is going to allow this to happen, but there have been many motions in recent months calling on the government to be careful about co-incineration of biomass, for example for the reasons that Mr Madlener has put forward. I have just tabled a motion in which I actually say 'look at the advice of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences', but Mr Madlener will vote against it. If I listen to his story now, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u25	I stood here in 2006 and tabled motions, even recently, to stop using biofuels. In addition to being expensive, they are also bad for the environment. And that is simply done under the guise of environmental policy. People are going through with it. The PVV will therefore support motions on that point. Mr Smaling is allowed to present one today. We shall then vote in favour. But if we vote against such a motion, there are probably all kinds of considerations or other things that make us unable to vote in favour. If Mr Smaling specifically puts forward a motion that says'stop using biofuels' now, we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u26	That must therefore be a motion without 'confirming' and 'considering', but only with'stopping with that bite'. That's the only way to get the support of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u27	It must be a motion which does not call for anything but European, social democratic or I know how to regulate it. No, it just needs to say what needs to be done, namely to stop biodiesel and biofuels. I've filed that motion before. I even remember doing this ten years ago. To this day, nothing has happened. We're just gonna go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u28	In short, if you agree well with Mr Madlener, then you will proceed together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u29	I have to correct myself: the SP has been critical on this point. GroenLinks is also slowly convinced that this is not a very convenient environmental policy. In that sense, it is not all parties, but the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u30	Mr Madlener continued his speech. He's got more than half a minute before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u31	Mr. Chairman. The same applies to electric car batteries. They are not very good for the environment either. An electric Tesla will really go against a small conventional car when it comes to the environment. It's durable shortsightedness. This climate agreement is similar to European agreements. You agree that you are all going to achieve a certain goal, for example a budget deficit of up to 3%. But yes, a lot of countries think: we'll agree, but don't do it anyway. The Netherlands will of course do so as a good boy in the classroom. That's exactly what's bothering us. That is not because of my bad faith in the world alone, because even Greenpeace East Asia has said that the Chinese figures are not right at all and that the Chinese are already cheating. What do you think of all the other signatories to this treaty, all those corrupt regimes, all those countries that are dying to take over our industry? Yeah, they're in on this treaty, but they'll just end up thinking, "Come over here with the jobs." The Netherlands is back as a reverend with the finger up, while our country is getting poorer and poorer. Also in the Netherlands will always be a green fool who calls himself Urgenda and goes to court. The Netherlands will be the first judge to condemn us all for doing well, while they are in China and I know where in the world this agreement doesn't appeal and just say it when it suits them. We want to see this agreement disappear into the trash as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u32	Mr. Chairman. As MPs of the permanent Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, we attended the Paris Climate Conference. Up close, I saw the Secretary of State and her staff at work during the negotiations. From this point on, I would once again like to express my appreciation for this commitment and for what has been achieved in Paris. The outcome in Paris is that less CO is emitted worldwide. This requires the commitment of governments, businesses and residents. For this reason, the CDA considers it important that there should also be a local action perspective for those residents, companies, provinces and municipalities. In short, the implementation of the climate agreement will have to be translated into the present and future. Minister Kamp is already working on this through the energy agreement. The CDA wants concrete steps to be proposed to the House of Representatives in the evaluation of the energy agreement and the local climate agenda. The storage of renewable energy on our energy bills is going to increase enormously. Around 2020, each household will pay approximately €220. The CDA would like to see the cabinet show before that time with a clear approach how our residents themselves are getting something for it, as in Denmark. Solar energy can be a very important driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u33	What the CDA says, of course, is entirely true. Many people in the Netherlands want solar panels and many municipalities are very active, but they are not too well facilitated by the policy of the cabinet. In the past, we have also had an exchange of views on this subject. I have a suggestion. Will we ask municipalities to include an energy paragraph in zoning plans in future so that they can implement them themselves exactly as Mrs Mulder says: can they have an action perspective and can change something in their own environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u34	I would be in favour of looking at how energy is handled and what opportunities there are for doing so in a sustainable way. Not everywhere you have opportunities to apply heat, for example, but in certain places you do. And what are you going to do with the gas connections in a neighborhood in the longer term? Are you gonna electrify everything? I would be in favour of talking to the people in that district early on. It's important that you take the residents from below with you throughout the process. And because it's going to cost so much money, that's extra important. People need to see that they get something good in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u35	There is a follow-up question from Mr Vos. Or does he see from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u36	This is a reason to consult with the CDA in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u37	Look, that's how warm feelings start. Mrs Mulder continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u38	As soon as people invest in solar energy, they see the effect on the meter. Then they think, "Hey, what else can I do?" Then suddenly people are also looking at isolating their homes. It's really weird that it works that way psychologically, but those solar panels loosen up a little bit with the people. My hope is that this energy dialogue will make real progress in the national strategy for 2021 to 2030. As far as the CDA is concerned, this will also have to come back to facilitating and supporting local plans for energy savings in the built environment, the dismantling or conversion of gas connections, as I said to Mr Vos, supporting energy corporations, as far as we are concerned in the SDE+ scheme, the co-decision and better sharing of pleasures and burdens, especially in wind energy projects. Steps can also be taken with companies. Governments can help them to move even faster to reach the 40% CO reduction target by 2030. Discussions in the European Union are currently under way on the development of the climate agreement on transparency and market mechanisms. How are these discussions going? Will there be a reporting obligation to the UN on the achievement of the national contributions? What are the requirements for national contributions at all? Is this also looking at working towards a global market system for CO emissions? Will the agreement be drawn up to see how the air and shipping sector can ultimately be involved? The CDA wants private climate investment to be part of a more transparent climate finance system. To what extent do the loans and guarantees count or not in climate finance under this new agreement? If they do not count, will the Secretary of State make sure that this support does count at national, European and global level? Will the Secretary of State continue to press for private climate finance to be part of the agreed funding, as requested in the motion (31793, No. 133) which I have submitted with Mr Remco Dijkstra? The Chamber would be further informed about this, but perhaps the Secretary of State can say something about it now. The CDA would like the European ETS system to be strengthened. In the short term, this alone does not come to the desired innovations. As stated in the ibo report and the DNB report, it is then a point that climate-neutral economies and innovations must be attractive. Then it does not help that choices in Map of the CPB do not include climate innovations at all. The CDA thinks that's really weird. How does the Secretary of State view that? This will have an impact on all our electoral programmes. It cannot be true that we actually have to do very good things, but that they are not counted as valuable anywhere? I would like to receive a view from the Secretary of State on this. I'll finish in a moment, Mr. Chairman. I see time goes really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u39	Time's even up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u40	Does the Secretary of State see possibilities to implement specific innovation policies for innovations for CO savings? And can they then have a strong role in innovation policy, so that we can help companies in the longer term? For example, our industry is also interested in the climate adaptation measures that we are going to contribute to globally, and we are also taking part in this and doing something for our employment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u41	I call Mr Jan Vos. He even comes in sprint; we don't often see that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u42	Mr. Chairman. This agreement is historic. However, the change we are seeing at the moment is also historic. More and more countries in the world realise that they need to make huge changes in their economic structure and their energy structure in order to meet the challenges we face. The Netherlands has taken very big steps in recent years. Five of the Dutch coal power stations have already been closed down and now the cabinet intends to close two more. This means that seven out of ten Dutch coal plants will be closed. In addition, in Groningen, we almost halve the production of natural gas as a result of the earthquakes. This is also a reduction in the extraction of fossil energy in the Netherlands. We are building the largest offshore wind farm in the world on the North Sea. That means that we are at the forefront of the transition that we are going through. It is sometimes said that we are dangling at the bottom when it comes to percentages. Objectively speaking, this is true, but the Netherlands is a flat country, where there are no height differences, so there are few opportunities to generate renewable energy. In that context, you can say that we are ahead. There are also points on which we are not yet at the forefront. That's what I want to talk to you about today. One is the question of CO collection. We agreed in 2007 that the coal plants we were going to build then would achieve capture and storage of CO. When I get there, I'm gonna see a hole in the chimney that that CO should go through, but I can't see anything else. This is unacceptable to the Labour Party, especially since the then Minister Cramer said that the owners had to take into account CO measures in their financial projections. I think we need to set emission reduction requirements for CO, as we did in the case of NO at the time. We need to communicate with them in good time. These plants can then go to 350 g CO per kilowatt hour, for example, and that is exactly what gas plants emit. That technique is important. In 17 places in the world CO Capture and Storage (CCS) is applied, but not yet in the Netherlands. I think we have a role to play there too. That is also possible, because we have been preparing for this for a long time. I would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. The Labour Party is very pleased with the cabinet's appeal to Dutch industry to play a leading role in improving the sustainability of energy supply. The Secretary of State was on the eight-hour news tonight. After years of asking us in the Chamber to give our hands and feet to that law, so that companies have to make investments that they earn back within five years, I have seen that inspections are finally going to take place. A big compliment to the Secretary of State. I'm very glad she's taken care of that. That is particularly repressive, you might say, but I think there are also fantastic opportunities on our campuses to boost cleantech innovation. Several groups have been advocating this for years. The Prime Minister took over that once, too. In Germany, cleantech is growing incredibly fast. There are a lot of innovations being made and a lot of new jobs are being created. It concerns a market share of 14% and 1.1% of the labour force. Why don't we do the same? We have fantastic ICT companies in the Netherlands, which can connect all these new networks. There is much more I would like to say, but I only have four minutes to speak, so that is what it is for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u43	The PvdA is again champion in scattering with green subsidies to make the sustainability industry enjoyable, at the expense of the Dutch citizen. I have just mentioned two examples of this government's environmental policy which is actually having a negative impact. One concerns biofuels. The opinion of the Environment Group Transport & Environment is to stop this acutely. I have given another example of something that is bad to continue with, namely the burning of Canadian forests in our coal plants. Why don't you do something about it? Why do you only come up with measures that the citizen can pay? All unfeasible plans from the PvdA. Here there is environmental gain for picking up and then you say it must go on, because that is good for the environmental industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u44	The PVV was a supporter of nuclear energy, I heard. It was claimed that windmills at sea would be more expensive than nuclear energy. Nuclear energy currently costs 11.4 cents per kWh. The English are throwing billions of grants at it to build a new power plant. Wind at sea costs 10.3 cents per kWh. Wind at sea is therefore cheaper than nuclear energy. This is not related to the environmental costs of storage. They were rightly remembered by the Party for the Animals. The second mistake is that biofuels and biomass mixing would be bad for the environment. There are many harmful side effects, but it is also clear that they do have a positive impact on the environment. They are also needed, because we will still have to keep energy in the Netherlands in the future. With only solar panels and windmills, we can't keep things running around here. If, at some point, we are definitely going to get off the gas and get off the coal or we are going to store it with the help of CCS, then we will still need biomass. The beauty of biomass is that you can create negative CO emissions. After all, you can incinerate biomass in which CO is stored. I see you looking a bit, Mr Madlener, but follow me. You can then store that CO, for example in the North Sea. That means you're extracting CO from the atmosphere. The problem of global warming, which everyone here agrees on except the PVV, can be solved in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u45	I want an answer to my question. This has just been the subject of a new report. It is not my imagination that this is bad for the environment; that is what the Environment Group Transport & Environment is doing in a study commissioned by the European Commission. This environmental group has found that biofuels cause 4% more emissions and cause an environmental disaster in Indonesia, for example. I never hear Mr Vos when it comes to that. Incineration of Canadian forests? Mr Vos can come up with a whole story, but there is no one who believes that if we set up Canadian forests in our coal-fired power stations, the environment will have something to do with that? Why would he come up with such a story? Why isn't he gonna get us to stop burning the Canadian trees and stop the palm oil plantations, for which jungle is being cut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u46	I think Mr Madlener is the only member of the PVV and of an environmental club. I don't know the environmental club he's referring to. I am not a member of the Labour Party; I am a member of the Labour Party. If Mr Madlener finds this information interesting, I will be happy to read it, but I am certainly not going to respond to it. Again, it's not my club, it's his club.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u47	I think the Labour Party and the Christian Union agree on a lot of things. I would like to point out, for example, the urgency of resolving the climate issue. It's been brought forward as well. I have seen, like Mr Vos, that this cabinet is accelerating. Does Mr Vos agree with me that the acceleration of this cabinet is not really enough to deal with the climate problem from the Netherlands? For example, I would like to refer to the Urgenda climate issue. The Chamber has adopted a motion stating that we must take measures this year, in 2016, if we really want to achieve the 25% CO reduction by 2020. My question is: is the government doing enough or does the Labour Party expect additional measures to be taken this year, given the climate agreement and the ruling in the Urgenda climate case?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u48	As far as I know, the cabinet has just announced measures in its last letter. The cabinet is doing exactly what we want, namely acting in accordance with the ruling in the Urgenda climate case. There is no doubt about that. Mrs Dik uses the word "accelerating." The word'revolution' may have been said a lot, but I really dare to use the word 'transformation' when you close seven out of ten coal plants, halve gas extraction and build the largest windmill park in the world in the North Sea. I was very excited when the coalition agreement was written, but I am really glad that we are now where we stand. I'm actually kind of proud of that, too. I'm a member of the club, of course, but I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u49	I'm gonna take another look at that letter. I had the impression that this was mainly a written exchange as part of the legal procedure. I have a second question. Today I read in the newspaper that Mr Vos sees the implementation of the climate agreement as a task for the next cabinet. The newspaper doesn't give a quote, it gives a description. I was a little worried about that again. I would like to refer again to the motion on the Urgenda climate issue. When are we going to take action? If we really do not have that agreement implemented by the next cabinet, in 2017, then we are two years away. I would be very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u50	Together with you, I have spent years here following the fire of Minister Kamp and the Secretary of State when it comes to the climate. We have made all kinds of changes together. I leave nothing to the next cabinet. I read very clearly in the letter that the cabinet will be returning to its own letter very soon with additional information. I read that as a commitment. We need to find out exactly what it's coming up with. Of course, it's complicated matter. I myself have just made the suggestion that we should look in particular at an emission reduction system of CO. We simply do not have to throw tax money over the bar by forcing things into a way that is neither sensible nor legally feasible. I'd really like to give the cabinet some time. Once again, I think that there have been really very great steps taken. I haven't read the piece in the paper, but I might be referred to it. I do not think it makes any sense to take further steps in the debate today. I was asked what my ambitions were for the debate. I am very satisfied with what has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u51	I welcome the words of Mr Vos. He says very clearly here in the Chamber: I leave nothing to another cabinet. I do not know whether Mr Vos wants to sit on his hands, but there are very important issues for the coming year, for example the implementation of the motion on coal power stations. Underneath it is Mr Vos' signature, along with that of the opposition. The Labour Party, together with the opposition, tabled a motion calling on the cabinet to take a decision on the closure of coal power stations during this period of office. However, I read a piece in the newspaper that worried me. Now I hear Mr Vos say that he leaves nothing to another cabinet. I therefore assume that Mr Vos with GroenLinks, the Christian Union and D66 really wants the decision on the closure of coal power stations to be taken this cabinet period and not left to another cabinet. That is not to say the closure of coal power stations during this cabinet period. Let's get that straight. I would like a response from Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u52	On behalf of the Labour Party, I have on several occasions taken the view that all coal plants must be closed down within ten years or that these coal plants should at least not emit any more CO. If they're all going to apply CCS, CO capture is fine, too. If that goes through biomass, you can also look at it in a different way. That's my point of view. That the cabinet wants to think about that, that's possible. As far as I am concerned, this can be done until 17 March or something before that. I'm not about another cabinet. I'm here as a Member of Parliament now. We'll have to get re-elected first, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u53	Certainly, but there could be confusion about the quote that I read in the newspaper. Mr Vos would have said to Trouw: that would mean that the Netherlands will soon have three newly opened coal plants, and I quote: 'I am not going to be difficult about them now; that is up to another cabinet'. I am glad that Mr Vos says here: I leave nothing to another cabinet, I support that motion. I am sure that Mr Vos, like GroenLinks, D66 and the Christian Union, realizes very well that we now have the majority in the Second and First Chambers and therefore have the chance to have that decision taken. We passed that motion. This cabinet therefore still has a decision to take. I would like Mr Vos to give me an explicit assurance that he supports this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u54	I've never come back to my words in all these years, so I'm definitely not gonna do that now. I do think that as Members of Parliament, we should be careful with bits of the paper. I've been sitting here for three and a half years and I've read a lot in the paper, but rarely anything exactly like what I had experienced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u55	I was just asking for clarification. That is the explicit reason why I am asking Mr Vos here and I accept what he is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u56	I cannot help saying that it was former Minister Cramer who first came up with sustainability criteria for biomass. If they were introduced, the whole forest problem would be over. That came from the PvdA as well. My question is about something else, namely new drilling for oil and gas. PvdA, GroenLinks and other parties have been built together to stop those around Terschelling, for example. We also said that there were other places to wait. In this Chamber, we have been working much more closely to set up the Mining Act, so that there will be a much better framework to see if we need new gas and oil drilling in those areas. Now we have the Paris Convention on Climate Change. We in the Netherlands do not yet know what our national plan is going to look like. How does the PvdA look at a temporary stop on new drillings, so we don't have to take large-scale action per new drilling? At least we'll wait for the new Mining Act to come into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u57	When it comes to protecting nature reserves, such as the Wadden Sea, you will find me at your side. We will block the extraction of fossil energy there as much as possible. Unfortunately, however, I do not think that your proposal to stop winning or drilling for oil and gas anywhere now is realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u58	How does Mr Vos look at the fact that we will certainly go well over that 2°C when we tap into all the world-famous reserves of oil and gas? In every country you will have a Mrs Van Tongeren and a Mr Vos: a Mrs Van Tongeren who says that this must be done, otherwise we will inevitably have a major climate change, and a Mr Vos who says that this is not realistic. I am talking about shutting down new drillings into oil and gas, not the existing ones. If we are not prepared at least to make a pass on the spot, how can we ask other countries not to drill their oil and gas reserves?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u59	We have set a path together to 2050: by 2050 we want 100% renewable energy and a CO-neutral society. We're walking down this path now. That fact means that we are making huge investments, for example in all those windmills at sea. It also makes us shut down the coal power stations. But going from zero to 2050 at once, as you wish, is impossible; that is not realistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u60	Mrs Van Veldhoven is now using her second opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u61	I actually wanted to make a point of order, Mr President. Mr Vos made a very interesting comment on something the Secretary of State would have said in the Eight-hour report. I think this debate had just begun. Mr Vos is bringing this in now, but I have not been able to take note of it. It's a good practice that directors first inform the Chamber before they say anything in the media. This concerns the implementation of a measure already known to the Court. I would therefore just like to ask the Secretary of State if she would explain in her reply what she said there so that we can discuss this with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u62	I think that's a good question. I'm directing that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u63	Mr. Chairman. The climate is changing, bringing challenges in terms of viability, agriculture, food, transport and water. No one wants the consequences of climate change to get out of hand. No one wants damage from extreme weather conditions, and I certainly don't. Climate change is an important issue. This also sometimes evokes extreme political reactions. On the one hand, there is a group that ignores the scientific consensus and simply denies climate change, on the other hand, you have a group of "doom prophets" that I like to call them "doomsmen," which says that the earth is going down and that we have to take our lifestyle drastically, preferably never to fly again, just eat small meat and put on a warm sweater every day in the winter. With both groups the VVD has little. In my view, this also applies to the vast majority of Dutch people. These people think the climate is important, but they don't like alarmists and they don't like deniers. They want to do something about it, but without having to throw their lives at it. And they're right. No one needs to become a vegetarian. Nor do we have to leave flight holidays. Daily driving isn't wrong either. The Netherlands and the earth benefit most from a sober climate policy. The VVD is positive about the future, and about the innovation and expertise we have to help the rest of the world. Climate policy, of course, requires first of all less greenhouse gas emissions. Addressing the climate means making smarter combinations, removing barriers and removing the blinders for a broader look. I see opportunities in particular, because the climate is more than just discussing a place on the renewable energy ranking. Think, for example, of the reuse of raw materials, thus avoiding CO. Think of recycling, which also avoids millions of tonnes of CO. Think also of combining biofuels and innovative companies with jobs for the future. Think of the change in the chemical sector, with biomass as a new raw material, instead of fossil oil. Think of agriculture with all its potential to combine the environment and the economy. And the most climate-friendly cow is in the Dutch meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u64	I give Mr Wassenberg the opportunity to commit his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u65	It took a few seconds for the quarter to fall. I'm going back to something that was said 20 seconds ago. Mr Dijkstra said that, as far as the VVD is concerned, everyone can keep driving a car, keep taking the plane and keep eating meat. Does this mean that the VVD is at least convinced that meat eating is part of the less environmentally friendly activities, so that eating and producing meat is bad for the environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u66	Producing meat costs water. Cows do indeed produce methane, which is 20 to 25 times as bad as CO. But we do want to be able to keep doing that. I do not have the illusion that we can ban the rest of the world, people who want prosperity too, from taking that piece of meat. I'm not going that far. Yes, it does cause environmental damage. On the other hand, if we do it in the Dutch way, via the Dutch cow, it will produce the most and there will be the least emissions. So that's how we help the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u67	I was talking about the environment, but I meant, of course, harmful to the climate. Does the VVD also agree with me that perhaps we should take a look at this great production of 500 million animals in livestock farming and that it should be reduced at least in order to achieve the Dutch climate objectives as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u68	I wonder what the point is. The most climate-friendly cows are here. We grow the best tomatoes here with the least water consumption. We cannot do that either, but that need for dairy will continue to exist, including in Africa and also in Asia. The need for protein remains. If you have more prosperity, you also get a different diet. That's gonna stay. We can't deny that to people. So please let's do it the Dutch way. It will benefit our economy and agriculture, but also the climate and the rest of the world. What's better than that! I will continue my speech. I was talking about that tomato, I also like to talk about water and the knowledge we have in that area. After all, we live in a river delta, we are the example for the whole world. For years now, we have the Delta program to protect us from rising sea levels. So I'm an optimist instead of a doomthinker. We do a lot like the Netherlands. Unlike previous Cabinets, we have a truly serious climate policy. Mr Vos has already referred to all the things that have already started. Our goals to reduce CO are ambitious. However, from today to tomorrow, changing our entire life, according to the VVD is neither necessary nor desirable. So we also support the government's commitment. The VVD sees the Paris climate agreement as a great achievement and compliments the Secretary of State. I have always stressed the importance of a global approach to climate change. That's the only way you can do it. This climate agreement is a response to this. I am positive about that agreement. 195 countries and many organisations, from China, India, the US, Europe to the smallest island states and developing countries, have committed themselves to this agreement. Europe has always been a frontrunner in reducing CO, and now it is important that other countries also deliver. After all, climate change does not respect national borders. Only international agreements are effective. I do have some questions about ratification. What happens now, for the Netherlands and for Europe? To what extent is financing for developing countries legally binding? What form does this take and what time does it take? And how will that $100 billion be compiled annually from 2020? Can the Secretary of State confirm once again, following the example of the Minister of Finance, that a Dutch public contribution from the OS funds comes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u69	I just heard Mr Dijkstra say that the climate agreement also offers opportunities for business, that he is an optimist. He also says a number of praises about the results of the energy agreement. The Energy Agreement also agreed that the Netherlands would have a top ten position on the global cleantech ranking by 2030, so we really need to do our best to do that. GroenLinks would like us to be part of the evaluation of the energy agreement where we stand and what measures are needed to get into that top ten. I think we're in position 13 or 14. I'm curious about the position of the VVD in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u70	I love being in the top ten. In fact, we would like to be the frontrunner on this kind of thing, because that brings money and expertise. I recently went to work in Delft, where there's such a cleantech campus. There are all kinds of young companies that have very nice solutions and make a business case to help other countries and create new jobs. Great, so I'm positive about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u71	Then I'll put my motion text to the VVD as well. Maybe we can make a very unusual alliance between GroenLinks and the VVD at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u72	Any more warm feelings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u73	You never know, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to see that text. Now I think that as a government we should set the goals and that society should do it itself, but I am waiting for the text of that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u74	One of the elements of the climate agreement that the VVD strongly supports is the distribution of $100 billion to corrupt countries. In the past the VVD was also critical of this kind of development aid, why do I not hear the VVD here with a single word about the 100 billion? How much will the Netherlands pay for that? Could that be on top of the development budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u75	As far as we are concerned, this is not on top of the development budget, but comes from that budget. I am also very curious how we will translate this into the Dutch situation. How much are we gonna contribute? Is that per capita or is it based on CO emissions? Those are questions I have, and they will be answered in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u76	I did not hear you ask that question, which is why I put it to you, because you are in favour of this agreement. You also said just now how great it is to have to mix biofuels, when I have just outlined that biofuels are actually bad for the environment, and you know this very well. The majority of Canadian forests I have also given as an example. You are aware that this does not contribute to the climate, while it costs billions of Dutch taxpayers' money. Why don't you have a critical word on that? Why don't I hear the VVD about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u77	Mr Madlener is wrong. He should be more interested in biofuels. Because you mix up and you have environmental benefits. You become less dependent on imports, so it saves fossil fuels, and you also develop a modern and environmentally friendly way to convert the port of Rotterdam and its refining into new raw materials. The great thing about it is that it does not cost a penny. If you go to the Dutch Emission Authority to see where these raw materials come from, then it turns out that more than half of them are advanced fuels. So this is not about palm oil or land use that drives farmers away. No, we do this in the Netherlands in a good way. And I want the rest of the world to do the same. In this way, we contribute to sustainable objectives without subsidies. How much prettier can you have it? It also saves a lot of windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u78	A question from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u79	That's not true. I would like to make the point that the falsehood is simply being spoken here. If Mr Dijkstra wants it, I have the evidence on my table. I'll give it to him later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u80	That point has been made. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u81	Recently, the Netherlands Bank warned about the major impact of climate change on our economy, for companies that have investments in oil and gas reserves on the balance sheet. Public investors such as our pension funds have also invested hugely in fossil energy. Is that also something the VVD is worried about?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u82	I found that report from DNB very interesting. I went to that hearing with Mr Knot. He did have a number of conclusions that the VVD endorses. He said, "You have to steer on one goal." Well, that's what I'm here for. CO reduction and all these other objectives can, as far as I am concerned, come forward in the long term. He asked for more transparency. I'm always in favour of that as a liberal. And he also said that it's actually not that bad with the CO bubble. That has been inventoried, including at our request. It's about billions. That's a lot. It is 10 billion, 2 billion and 4 billion, I believe, for pension funds, banks and so on. However, if you look at what's out of the question, over 1,000 or more than 1,500 billion dollars, then the share is actually quite small. So the problem that was outlined is that there would be a CO-bubble of our pension funds and banks are actually so minimal that I was pleased with the results of DNB. I would like to add that DNB should be concerned with the financial world and not be classified as a climate scientist. That's why we have the PBL.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u83	I've also heard words like "dramatic." This leads to a very different picture than the VVD has. I'm not quite sure yet. There is much to do about public investors such as our pension funds. You don't want them to have any more investments in our old economy, do you? Isn't it an idea, for example, to have the AFM look at that? Isn't it an idea that the Cabinet will once speak to the public investors? I'm looking for measures to make a change. Will the VVD support me in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u84	The VVD wants to look at everything, but if there's no problem, as far as I'm concerned, you don't have to look any further. I reason from the position of the people who are now entitled to a pension, now or in the future. I also give these people a nice return. It's possible. The risk of fossil appears to be greatly overrated. There isn't. That's what DNB says. And if there is, it's so minimal that this can be easily captured. There are far more risks to our pensions in the future than the climate. We can do it, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u85	It is not quite clear to me what the position of the VVD is. The cabinet policy is supported, but the cabinet policy goes beyond the Urgenda ruling. Mr Dijkstra was not too happy with that, by the way. At the same time, he wants his supporters not to wear a warm sweater in winter, just keep eating meat and keep flying. Is it business as usual or does Mr Dijkstra want to go along with what most groups in the Chamber want, namely action to prevent what awaits us?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u86	We're already in action. This cabinet is already doing a lot. Mr Vos referred to this. We're gonna get the biggest wind farm ever. We set up five and one is already bigger than all the parks in England. We're halfway through gas production. We do a lot of things. We're already on it. The climate agreement actually covers the period from 2020 to 2050. The good thing is that we have goals and intermediate goals. These targets are more ambitious than the Urgenda pronunciation. We are going for 40% reduction by 2030, while the judge will not go beyond 25% by 2020. My answer in brief is as follows. We're working on an energy agreement, and we're going to do it. We will comply with the Urgendavonnis as long as there is. Next year, the verdict will be on appeal. We go far beyond the judge's will and we have long-term goals. As far as I'm concerned, all the lights are green. I would suggest that we, together with the SP, look at feasibility and affordability. You can put a tooth in it when you're already doing a lot, but it has to be affordable as well. I hope to find the SP on our side. With high-end goals that can't be paid, things are gonna go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u87	I am satisfied with the answer, but affordability is a lot easier for your constituents than for mine. I'd be happy to invite you. You can be relative about the meat eating, the warm sweater and the flying. Your supporters swim in the dough. We desperately need the VVD to take back some comfort that will help us achieve the goals faster. On the contrary, I would not use that somewhat relativistic tone towards your constituency, because we need your constituency to achieve those goals as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u88	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u89	Is that how you see it? Then we'll get where we need to go a lot faster in terms of affordability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u90	I would like to correct Mr Smaling in relation to our constituents. There are a lot of hard-working entrepreneurs who have a lot of trouble earning their money. Every euro earned is an achievement. It's really not like the entire VVD squad swims in the money. There will be examples, but I don't know many.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u91	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u92	I am also pleased that business has been given such a large place in addition to the global dimension. We saw that in Paris. The solutions will have to come from business. The VVD wants a single objective, namely the reduction of greenhouse gases. That's the point. We do this by putting a price tag on emissions, by effectively priced CO emissions. This challenges everyone to be more efficient, cleaner and profitable. The VVD wants to leave a living earth. I want to do that without disallowing someone's way of life, without restricting anyone in their own free choices. Sober climate policy is positive, release people, cost-effective and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u93	Finally, there is an interruption by Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u94	This closure could almost have been my closure. I think we really need to see the whole development we're going through together as an opportunity. As a government, we must set the goals very clearly and challenge the market to come up with the right solutions. Setting the right incentives is, of course, crucial. I found it interesting what Mr Dijkstra said about pricing, so the right price incentive depends on CO emissions. I assume that this also applies to transport, where we are talking about cars that emit a lot of CO or emit little CO. Shouldn't you be praising that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u95	We will talk about transport later when we talk about the non-ETS sectors. We have a proposal on agriculture and transport. That emissions must be priced, yes, of course. However, we have to look at where the biggest profit is. It doesn't make much sense to just bully motorists, while leaving the chemistry untouched. We need to look at where the most profit can be made and how it can be achieved most cost-effectively. We also need to look at how we prevent too much interference in people's lives, so to their car or to their front door. I don't want to. I hope that's where I'll find D66 by my side. I sometimes sense, despite the praises, something else about one's own and free choices. I hope that we can keep them as liberal sister parties a little bit and that we will not go through with patronizing................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I don't want to. It has to be positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u96	I think we agree on this. If we give the right incentives, we leave people the choice as to what they spend their money on. One will spend it on steak, with or without CO price on it. The other will spend it on an electric car that emits almost nothing, but that in purchase is more expensive, or on a polluting diesel that is very cheap in the purchase, but may be more expensive in use. As long as we implement the right stimulus consistently. If Mr Dijkstra says there is one goal, we must ensure that all incentives are consistent with that one goal. I would like to ask him whether it would also be a good idea, for one purpose, to have one ruler, who can then assess the whole package of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u97	I read that in Mrs Van Veldhoven's contribution and this morning I saw it on her site. I thought, "Who's gonna be the new minister?" I saw her picture and thought: how nice, she immediately applied for it. I was wondering what kind of problem it solves. I note that the cabinet really operates as a single team with this Secretary of State, the Minister of EZ and others. When it comes to changing structures or organisations because it would not be good, I note that my experiences are different. So I do not quite understand the problems it solves, but perhaps we will come to talk about them at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u98	Mr Dijkstra continued and concluded his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u99	Mr President, I was asked another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u100	Yeah, if you're running. You can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u101	Well, I'd be happy to answer that. The photo was there because I made the proposal. There was no application yet. Perhaps Mr Dijkstra himself, given his passion for this subject, is interested. I'm sure we'll talk about that later. He's so shiny. It must have appealed to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u102	I think that's another theme. It's got to be the order of business. Have you completed your speech, Mr Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u103	Yes. That was done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u104	Thank you, too. Then the first term of the Chamber is completed. I'm suspending this meeting for ten minutes so that the Secretary of State can prepare the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u105	I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions. I am happy to give her the opportunity to do so. In procedural terms, I propose two interruptions per person, but you don't have to use all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u106	Mr. Chairman. Maybe first of all I could take you in the line of reply, so you know which blocks I'm holding. Perhaps this is also strategically important for the scarce use of interruptions. First of all, I would like to say something about the climate agreement itself, the global commitments that flow from it, the issue of ratification and climate finance. That's the first block. The second block is about what the European Union is doing. What exactly is the situation with the 1.5oC and the entire ETS system? The third block is about what we are now doing nationally: some non-ETS sectors, which have also been mentioned, the Urgenda pronunciation and everything related to energy and innovation policy in the Netherlands itself. Agriculture will, of course, come along. And then I have the infamous block of "other." Many spokesmen have said that the climate agreement, as recently concluded in Paris, can rightly be called historical. I would like to underline that. Why is that? That is because 195 countries have committed themselves to legally binding agreements and concrete action to limit our earth's temperature rise to well below 2oC. The longer term goal is to reach 1.5oC. Climate neutrality in the second half of this century is the new spot on the horizon. Mitigation and adaptation, thus preventing and curing, are both on the agenda. Furthermore, the agreement was made to achieve USD 100 billion in 2020 as financing for developing countries. This will be reconfirmed and continued until 2025, after which a new, higher amount will be agreed. To my liking, it is important to clarify now what the envisaged transition towards climate neutrality in 2050 is exactly what we need to do for the design of the world economy, society and the policies to be pursued. In concrete terms, it means that in 2018 the IPCC will publish an analysis to clarify the impact of global warming of 1.5oC and its emission pathways. All of these have already been agreed in the process. As it is already established that the commitments made by countries in the run-up to Paris are insufficient to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement, an ambition mechanism has been agreed for which the first discussion will be launched in 2018. I will, of course, also discuss what that means for the European Union and for the Netherlands itself. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked what I reported in the NOS-Journaal. We need to work together to keep global warming below 2oC. Any conceivable measure should be used in principle for this purpose. This means that citizens and businesses must also work on their own. I mentioned the re-establishment of an article in the Environmental Management Act, whereby energy inspectors will monitor the energy saving measures that are possible when you can earn them back within five years. I have also made it clear that I intend to organise a national climate conference in the autumn. We will then invite citizens, businesses, organisations and many others to join us in thinking about achieving the climate objective and further steps that are needed, also looking at what we can do ourselves. After all, it remains important that we not only make global agreements, but also act nationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u107	This subject has my particular attention because I myself once wrote an initiative paper on revitalizing Article 5. This was then included in the energy agreement. This is a very important measure. There is already experience with it. In Den Bosch we have saved as much energy as six windmills together in a whole year. That shows what's possible. The companies were very excited about this. What, however, did they encounter in Den Bosch? It has been argued that you have to finance that one, while no additional funding has so far been made available to enable those municipalities that do want to carry out that additional inspection. That is why I was curious whether the Secretary of State in her contribution to the NOS-Journaal, or in her plans, would also provide an additional impetus to enable these municipalities to actually carry out those additional inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u108	Yes. From my point of view, this is a specific twenty FTE. It is exactly as Mrs Van Veldhoven says. This means that with the use of a relatively small measure, you can achieve enormous energy savings. This is therefore an effective measure. It's always hard to find money for something at the end of the day, but we agreed and we're gonna do it. I therefore agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u109	I am very pleased with the commitment of those 20 FTEs. Are they available at the ILT and are they going to do it nationwide? There are congregations that say: we have that ambition. I spoke to a lot of D66 aldermen at the last conference in D66 who are very keen to get on with this. They would therefore like to be a partner of the Secretary of State in the deployment of these twenty FTEs. Where can they go?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u110	In the NOS-Journaal an inspector of the Environment Service was also in the picture. That's where the people who do this work are. We will, of course, also have the resources available there. So it goes through the route of those inspectors, who are actually already being used for this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u111	The Secretary of State is talking about a historic agreement. It also says that the agreement is legally binding. However, in Article 28 of that Treaty, I read the following. "At any time after three years from the date on which this agreement has entered into force for a party, that party may draw with draw from this agreement by giving written notification." So you can cancel the deal. How am I supposed to reconcile that with the "legally binding" story of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u112	If you don't quit, it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u113	Yes. Now Donald Trump has already said that as far as he is concerned, this agreement is off the table. He's gonna renegotiate, and it's gotta be very different. Each party can, of course, easily invoke Article 28 and say: you may say that it is legally binding, but if we want to, we will cancel the whole treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u114	Then Trump must of course be chosen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u115	It has also been shown that China has already been cheating on emissions figures. Of those I believe 190 countries that participate in this, there are huge amounts of corrupt. Of course, they'd like to collect that $100 billion. How can the Secretary of State trust all these countries? Of course, they're all gonna shuffle. The Netherlands is, of course, the best boy in the class. Then there will be organizations like Urgenda and there will be judges. But in countries like Uganda, of course, people think: long noses, we don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u116	What is your question, Mr Madlener?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u117	On the one hand, therefore, I have a question about the legally binding nature. The Netherlands, of course, likes to be legally committed. I can see that from the Secretary of State. However, other countries do not care, are corrupt and can simply denounce the treaty. This is, of course, a wash nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u118	First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Madlener for being able to sum up his entire contribution here in one interruption. That's very handsome. This interruption is mainly characterized by what is "denial" at Trump, so denial. That is, of course, extremely unfortunate, because climate change is there. Mr Madlener is absolutely right to say that it is very important that all these countries, even if there are 195 countries, are indeed going to comply with the agreement they have willingly committed themselves to in Paris. "Willens and knowing," I say. We're also gonna see to it that people stick to it. Because the beauty of this agreement is that for the first time in history, all these 195 countries must show how they make a so-called 'intentioned contribution', a national contribution. Then, every five years, we are going to look again at whether each country keeps its word. That will put political pressure on the world. I am trying to answer a lot of elements and will conclude this part of my contribution with a comment about China. In my capacity as Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, I was in China for the last time. You can see that the citizens of Chinese cities are the upward pressure for environmental policy reforms. If you can only walk on the street with a mouth cap, because the air is not clean anymore, there is a problem. I am grateful and grateful that the Chinese Government is taking this very seriously and is now experimenting with an ETS system in no less than seven regions. There are indeed developments that are positive to me, although not all of them are positive, I can see that too. We will have to find the point of departure in order to avoid this. Mr Madlener rightly says that there is a waterbed effect: production disappears here, but returns elsewhere under worse conditions. We're watching that, of course. I will go into this further in my contribution. We're not crazy Henkie.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u119	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u120	Several members have asked for ratification in the Netherlands. This will go through a bill, orderly as we are. We are working on this right now with man and power. We hope to be able to deal with this in the National Council by the summer. If the Council of State has given its opinion on it, then that is the usual process. It can be dealt with in the Chamber later this year. It is then up to the Chamber and me to conclude this together. Mr Smaling asked what exactly he should imagine in this regard. In any case, the legislative proposal will consist of parts, first, a legal explanation of the Paris Agreement as a whole; secondly, a policy analysis of that agreement will be presented to you; thirdly, an article-by-article explanation; and fourthly, the financial and administrative implications for the Kingdom. As far as I can see now, the bill is indeed referendable. Mrs Van Tongeren has rightly asked for a motion to refer to the part of the Kingdom that belongs and participates. With vervain, I can say. I was able to do the signing with Prime Minister Eman. He did this on behalf of the Kingdom and I, in New York, on behalf of the European Union. Of course, we also need to look at how we work there. In the context of the ratification of the agreement, consultations will be held with the BES Islands on the application of the agreement to the islands. In addition, agreements should first be made on the application of the Climate Treaty. We will also keep contact with others like Aruba warm to see how we can work together, because that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u121	I welcome the Secretary of State's intention. During the debate I spoke to another govern ment representative about this in connection with the Antilles trip. There is quite a need for technical support there, from RIVM, TNO or one of those clubs for example. The Secretary of State's nodding already. If this kind of thing can happen, it means that the execution there becomes a lot easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u122	Yeah, I agree. I have heard this myself in the contacts I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u123	I have a question about the legislative process. Will it be a fairly short technical law, purely to lay it down as a law? Or, as an AMvB, are all actions covered included?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u124	I'm afraid to say that. The writing is not yet so far advanced that I can promise exactly that. I have just tried to give an insight into what is at least going to be in it. It will not be very short and very technical either, because it is of course of great significance. We will have to keep the middle between retaining the possibility, including for ourselves, of fast legislative processes on the one hand and care on the other. We have to take exactly what we commit ourselves to. Of course, in the system of the agreement itself, I will come to talk about this later, and I will be able to scale it up at some point. It is not for nothing that these five years are mentioned every time; that applies to all of us. We are, of course, following the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u125	Does the explanatory statement also include a quantitative annex stating that 'we have this objective in mind: in 2030 there and in 2050 there and we are going to do it that way', bearing in mind the Rli's opinion, which sets out a timetable for where we want to go for certain sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u126	Again, I can't commit to that right now. We'll make it as soon as we can. We don't rule by decree. Sometimes they do that elsewhere, but they can't. It must also be a good proposal. It will keep the gap between a quality legislative proposal which sets out the commitment made and the best possible assessment of the consequences. Just because we want to be quick can't be everything in the bill. That's a handicap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u127	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u128	I had arrived at Mr Madlener's pessimism, again in fact. So I do not share that, as he has just noticed. I've given the reasoning why not. Climate plans have already been submitted by 187 countries working on this. The Netherlands doesn't operate here alone. We have a common goal as the European Union, and we have committed ourselves to it together. In this respect, there is no single entry. It is true, however, that Mr Madlener is right, and that is a political choice that the European Union is leading the world with the objective it has agreed on. That's right, but that's a conscious choice. I come to the issue of climate finance. Several speakers have asked questions about this, sometimes contradictory to each other. Mr Wassenberg asked: are you going to ensure that climate finance is additional to development cooperation funds? This was not discussed in the context of the Paris Agreement, so it must be additional. It stresses the need for developed countries to use all possible instruments and channels to mobilise more resources for climate change. The climate agreement, as well as the new agenda, I believe that Mr Smaling spoke about this too, from the Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs, has also opened a new phase. We now see for the first time, and that is very good, that climate policy must be an integral part of development cooperation policy. This is already the case in the Netherlands, also in the budget. Now that is also taken up internationally much more integrally. We cannot provide, for example, clean water or contribute to food security or infrastructure in developing countries without taking into account the effects on the climate and its consequences. Adaptation is investing in water and also in agriculture. I can give very good examples of Dutch knowledge with which we can make a huge contribution. Mitigation is indeed part of economic development. I agree with those who say that we should collectively do more to combat poverty and climate change. That has always been the position of the Dutch Government. We have also brought this in at many times. Mr Dijkstra asked for funding to be legally binding on developing countries. How is the European Union going to shape this? How is this contribution determined by country? Is that a contribution from development cooperation funds? It is a political obligation to support developing countries financially. This obligation does not appear in the agreement but in the decisions of Paris. Those decisions are political, and they are really only about what is needed to achieve the objectives of the agreement. Moreover, Europe is the largest donor in terms of climate finance. The European Commission and the individual Member States are continuing their efforts to increase climate finance further towards 2020, as I have just said. For us, Paris is primarily an incentive to continue doing so, but it has not changed the necessity. Internationally, consideration is being given to working towards target amounts per year between now and 2020. These will then be collective goals. So these are not targets per Member State. The collective commitment involved in the negotiations is then an addition of what individual countries do and report on. The Netherlands, together with the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Denmark, is one of the larger donors in the field of climate finance. These public expenditures are part of the development cooperation budget in accordance with the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u129	Mr Madlener wants to interrupt. That'll be his second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u130	I thought it was a rather fuzzy story, but what I have understood so far is that the Netherlands will become one of the biggest payers of the 100 billion that has been agreed. This is covered by the current budget for development cooperation. If I understand correctly, this will not be extra money, but I do want to know how much it is or how much it is about. Surely it is not possible for the Secretary of State to sign something on behalf of all taxpayers and then say that she does not know exactly what it is. Looks like there's some kind of open-ended scheme on it, too. I would like to know exactly what the financial consequences of this climate agreement will be in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u131	I would like to say three things about this. I think I was clear. This is not a legally binding treaty but a political agreement. Yes, Europe is one of the larger donors and the Netherlands is a major donor within Europe. It is indeed from the resources for development cooperation. Mr Madlener will be able to see how much is involved in the next few years in the budgets he has already had and in the budgets that are still to come. Of course, we will not only look at ourselves; private contributions are also very welcome. I would also like to look at Mrs Mulder. When increasing funding, we look not only at public funds but also at private contributions. In this way, we will also indicate in the coming period exactly what the Union, and within the Netherlands, is looking at. But I can't give you a series of amounts right now up to the year X. I can say that what is available in the budget is for Minister Ploumen and that this has, of course, always been reported to the Chamber. I believe that this is also being discussed during the budget debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u132	On the basis of my experience in Brussels, I can say one thing about the European budget: there is always a structural shortage of money. There's not a penny left. Europe already spends more than it has. If extra money comes from the European budget, we will soon have to go around again, and of course the Netherlands will be the first to transfer millions again. I just want to know on behalf of the taxpayer what is estimated to be the financial consequences for the coming years. That doesn't have to be on the cent. I understand that this cannot be done, because private contributions also count, but I want to know about what the Secretary of State is counting on. Isn't that a normal question when you sign such a legally binding treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u133	Sure. That's a normal question. My colleague Ploumen is going to report to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u134	That is a clear commitment. I see Mrs Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u135	That seems to me to be a very justified commitment. Of course, the CDA is also looking at that. My group, together with the VVD Group, tabled a motion prior to the climate debate. As the Secretary of State has just indicated, I specifically asked for private funding within climate finance. I have a very specific question: are loans and guarantees explicitly included in the political agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u136	Yes. I was almost ready for that question, but I'm gonna take it right now. In Paris, it was agreed that the criteria for climate finance will be established at the 2018 COP. The Netherlands will indeed take the lead in this with other major climate donors. Two things are important here. First of all, that is transparency. I agree with what has been said in the Chamber, including by Mr Madlener. Last year it was agreed with other donors that loans will also be reported. These have been taken into account in the OECD report on climate finance. The total available climate finance was in 2014, so two years ago, USD 60 billion worldwide. It is now necessary to agree in the UN framework on how to proceed in order to increase predictability for developing countries. In the run-up to COP in Marrakesh, the Minister for BuHa-OS will report to the Chamber what the roadmap is. Mr Madlener also asked about this: what are we doing together, including as a Union, and what does that mean for the Netherlands for the years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u137	Thank you for your clarification on this point. Is there going to be a reporting obligation for the UN about getting that national contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u138	We are committed to transparency. Some of this will have to be taken into account in the further agreement, but the Union's commitment is to ensure that transparency is as high as possible. On the question of whether this is going to work, I must remain guilty of the answer. Mr. Chairman. I have already spoken about the Klever motion, the climate finance and the multi-annual commitment. Mr Ploumen is studying how the Netherlands' commitment can be stepped up in the coming years. The Chamber will be informed of this before the summer, as I just said. The first step is now to make collective agreements in the so-called UNFCCC framework on how we grow to the USD 100 billion by 2020. In the run-up to COP in Marrakesh, the rich countries will draw up a so-called road map. In that roadmap and by means of the contribution of other countries, we will determine what that means for the Netherlands. Among others, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Veldhoven have asked whether we can work to achieve greater access to renewable energy for the poorest. The answer to that is that we are already doing so. Providing access to renewable energy is a spearhead of Dutch climate finance. So far, the Netherlands has provided 16 million people with so-called clean cooking or small-scale energy. The commitment is to increase the number of people to 50 million by 2030. In the Green Climate Fund, too, the Netherlands has just been asked for space for small projects and not just for large mitigation projects. We agree on that. The IMO is somewhat a side point in this debate, but it is a very large subject. I agree with Mrs van Veldhoven that maritime transport must make a contribution to solving the climate problem. Fortunately, some things are already happening to make maritime transport cleaner. Efficiency standards have been agreed for new ships, which require ships to be 30% more energy efficient by 2025. As regards CO, the IMO Environment Committee agreed in April on a global mandatory data collection system of CO emissions. Although I feel the need to put maximum pressure on that, you need that system to know how to ultimately reduce emissions. In aviation we are a step further to talk about how to control emissions. It is undoubtedly true that both aviation and shipping in Paris may seem to have escaped the dance a little, but we are not letting them go. I come to the following block: the European block, the 1.5°C and the emissions trading system. In the run-up to Paris, the EU has agreed that greenhouse gas emissions should be at least 40% lower by 2030 than in 1990. It begins with the fact that we are just going to do what we have agreed: to make sure that we actually do this. The Commission has already made a proposal in 2015 to revise the EU's emissions trading system, and before the summer it is proposing that this effort should be shared among the Member States in the sectors outside emissions trading. These proposals are based on the EU's INDC and the agreement on the EU's commitment made by the European Council in October 2014, i.e. two years ago. Those agreements were already in place and you could say that they only gained more strength after Paris. In the letter to the Chamber, we then wrote what the strategy is. The strategy is clear. We are not even at 2°C with all these international contributions, even with the European very ambitious goal. So we must first ensure that we do what we have agreed. In 2018, the IPCC will present a follow-up analysis on what it means at 1.5°C. I think, with Mr Dijkstra, that it really will not be easy to get what we have to do, namely to stay well below 2°C. We are worldwide with all the contributions that have now been made at 2.7°C or something. So the first step worldwide will now have to be taken to do what we have already agreed. In 2018, based on the analysis of the IPCC, we will be able to see what it means to go further down to 1.5°C, for the Union, for the Netherlands and for the rest of the world. On the basis of such an analysis, new targets may also be set. I'm not ruling that out at all. At the moment, however, it is wise to first ensure that we do what can be taken as a first step. I agree with what Mr Vos said about how to look back later, and that is not going to happen if the cabinet is still in office on what actually happened during this period. I really think that a huge step has been taken, along with your Chamber, and I think that is not only because I am part of that cabinet, but also when I try to look at it from a distance. We really did that together. An energy agreement has been reached, which makes a great contribution to the transition to renewable energy. And in this period we are indeed closing down five coal power stations and we also have two more on the visor of which we would like it if we could do it as well. We are talking about CO, where we also look at all kinds of other conceivable measures: stimulating geothermal energy, heat, the smoke project and methane sludge. These additional measures will indeed be the subject of final decisions by the government this autumn. Two days ago, Minister Kamp also sent a letter on my behalf in which we put another plus on top. Coal power stations are closing down. There will be wind farms, unprecedented in size, also in Europe. They're all gonna be there, year after year after year after year. There are, I think, five. That's huge. It's true: if you look at our track record, we're dangling with our previous performances at the bottom of the line. That's right. But if we add all these measures together and see them all worked out, you will see that we are shooting up on that list like a comet. That's right, and I'm proud of it. I understand there's a part of your room that has a sturm-und urge to go more and more. I understand that very well. However, I would also like to ask you once to bear in mind what we have achieved with each other, let us all share the success. That's an awful lot. We're not gonna sit back, I just made that clear. We saw again two days ago that plus on Minister Kamp's energy agreement. The House will be receiving the proposal on coal-fired power stations this autumn. She knows we're dealing with geothermal and heat. I will say something about CCS later, I say to Mr Vos. We're working on the ETS. In short, I'm really short of time to get all those things I have to do done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u139	Mrs Van Veldhoven's second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u140	Yes, unfortunately, Mr. Chairman. It is true that there is now an enormous dynamic, as the Secretary of State says. There's a lot going on. That is also necessary, as she rightly says, because we came a long way. When we look at the transfer of where we are now, it turns out that we are not yet there, even if all the measures mentioned by the Secretary of State are taken. That doesn't mean we're at 14%. That means we still have 86% to go. We are still faced with a huge task afterwards, with all the joy we can have about the steps being taken and about what this will bring for the Dutch economy. It is an important step if a decision on the closure of coal power stations is still taken during this cabinet period. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the timetable is for making that decision in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u141	I still have the impression that not everyone has that letter on the retina, because I think we have already mentioned the timetable. We have written that we are investigating, including your motion. We have already indicated a position of preference and said that we want to reach a decision this autumn. Anyone who thinks it's only after that is done is mistaken, because that's just what that letter says. You were able to read that a month ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u142	It is always nice to get these things confirmed, because sometimes there can be a political dynamic in which uncertainty also arises in the market. It may sound crazy, but I also think that the parties affected by this have an interest in clarity. I thank the Secretary of State for her confirmation and I look forward to the conclusions of that investigation after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u143	Mr. Chairman. We have been asked how we look at the ETS. That system needs to function much better, let that be clear. If we want to create a flywheel effect worldwide to make fossil fuels less attractive, then it can only be done when carbon gets a price. Carbon must get a price. The best thing is, I say to all cynics, if we do that worldwide. That's the most effective thing. The Netherlands has not for nothing been the first national state to join the World Bank's Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, but because we really want to do it. We are not discussing the need to improve the European Union's system, which is not working enough. That's gotta be better. We should be able to link that to a system in China. Parts of China are already in progress. If, in the long term, further steps are being taken in the United States of America, California will be forced from the market, because there are too many people in the industry who also want stability and security by achieving a good price incentive, for fair competition. We can see that Canada is very hopeful, taking big steps. If we are able to connect these systems somewhere, we have organized an incentive that has more pull than a lot of political ambitions combined. But that doesn't mean we don't have to do anything ourselves. It's a matter of We do everything to save more energy and to make the transition to sustainable. I have just talked about this and I will deal with it in the next block. If we are able to give a price of what is left of fossil energy, especially coal, then it is going even harder and I think this is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u144	In France, the government has decided to establish a base in the ETS in the form of a price of, I believe, €30. Is it an idea to do that in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u145	In my recent letter, I actually said that we prefer measures aimed at removing the quantity of allowances from the market so that we can steer the reduction of CO. The problem with a minimum price is that you first have to determine the exact level of that price. France is apparently doing this now, but I can tell you that some unnamed energy giants in their internal accounts charge a price that is really higher than that amount of €30. So you have to make sure that a price that is meant as a minimum becomes a maximum at some point, preventing the market, as it were, from doing its job even better once the system works. I would very much like to explore with my colleagues how we can strengthen the ETS. I also placed it on the agenda of the next Environment Council. That is not for nothing, because we need to increase the political pressure on everyone who is sensitive to it to achieve it. I would also like to avoid Member States seeing a minimum price as a form of European tax and later saying that it should be decided unanimously. The route of that minimum price really has a number of side effects to which I do not think we should simply surrender.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u146	I am not entirely convinced by the arguments of the Secretary of State. I ask her to take a good look at that. She does, but I'm asking her to fly it from the other side anyway. The United Kingdom has introduced a price and France is doing it now. That's not for nothing. Despite the fact that the ETS is promising, it seems to be particularly promising in the future. It has been for 20 years, and it will remain for 20 years if we continue to do so. I think we really need to do more than we have done right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u147	I'm not fighting that last one at all, absolutely not. So that's where we're standing next to each other. We also need to do a lot more than has been done. This system cannot take another 20 years to start operating. So it is really very important that there is a real price for carbon. It is, of course, fine in itself as part of the pressure that countries are in the process of determining that price, but it is not said that that is the best way to actually make the system work. I think we have an interest in a functioning system. With you, I am doing everything in my power to ensure that this gets on your feet as soon as possible. There is already a proposal from the European Commission. Now it comes to political support for that proposal. As chairman, the Netherlands is busy organizing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u148	I appreciate the commitment of the Secretary of State and the passion with which she is working on this subject. At the same time, as long as I am a Member of Parliament, we are talking about the ETS and its non-functioning. The Secretary of State is fully committed to backloading, i.e. to removing rights from the market. How long is that gonna take? Is that enough? Isn't it wise to look at alternatives now that we know it's so complicated and will take a very long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u149	Again, we should never lock our minds. I agree with you on that. However, since the European Commission has already made a proposal, I think it is very important to consider whether we can accept it with each other. That's what I'm looking for. We also see that part of the rights are withdrawn from the market according to a previous agreement. In fact, the discussion is now about how we proceed after 2021. There's still flexibility in that. It is important, for example, that the ETS Directive for the period 2021-2030 provides for the possibility of tightening up if there is ambition to do so. I'm not ruling that out at all. We are also bringing these issues forward, because we want room for this tightening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u150	The Secretary of State just outlined the bumps she sees for a minimum price for CO. Mr Jan Vos mentioned the countries that are already doing this: the United Kingdom has been doing this for a long time, France is considering it now. If this cannot be done at European level, what are the concerns of the Secretary of State for doing this with the like-minded countries around us? I can imagine that countries like Germany and Denmark have ears for that as well. So we have the United Kingdom, France and perhaps Belgium. This creates a sort of North-West European market in which a system of minimum prices is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u151	Again, that is a possibility, but there are also a number of drawbacks to it and I have just tried to outline it. The disadvantage of introducing a minimum price is actually two-fold. In practice, such a minimum price is going to work as a maximum, and I'm just not sure you want it to work. I don't think I want to, because maybe that price should be higher. The second problem is: how do you determine exactly what that price is? That too will prove very difficult. It is ultimately best to steer towards a reduction of CO and to ensure that that price, as it were, goes up through the market. I also think that this price should definitely be much higher than the price that is currently being charged between €4 and €5. So we really don't have a discussion about that. Our discussion is just about effectiveness. We need to have room to switch, in case, for example, there is a discussion about the ETS and we need to think about how we can take sensible steps with like-minded countries. I agree with all of that. If you ask me about the technique, to look at the system and what is and is not wisdom, I give you my opinion of this moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u152	This has happened on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u153	I have a question on the same subject. I understand that any measure we make up for this has disadvantages. However, there is the Faber/Van Tongeren motion, which calls for the 1.5°C target of the climate agreement to be taken as the starting point for the reform of the emissions trading system. The Secretary of State just rejected the proposal to set a minimum price, like those few other countries, even though that is not the most appropriate measure. In the short term, what proposals does the Secretary of State have to reform the emissions trading system in such a way that we can still get close to 1.5°C?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u154	We're really gonna have to do that in steps. This means that, in any case, in the current review of the ETS Directive, we should focus on a reduction rate of 2.2. We have not yet achieved that either. And indeed, you are right: in the light of the outcome of the agreement, this percentage will not be sufficient in the future. In 2018, the European Union will look at how it intends to proceed with this increase in the objective, as I have just outlined. We can therefore look very closely at what this means, for example, for the directive after 2021. For this very reason, I have advocated flexibility in this directive: we need to have the space to be able to fall far and wide again. So we agree on that. I hope that the discussion is not about the goal, but we are having a discussion about the way forward and about what is and is not effective in doing so. I promise you that, of course, we will remain in close contact with the progressive countries to see how best to operate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u155	The Secretary of State also knows, of course, that we have about five years left, if we continue with the current level and at the current rate of reduction of CO emissions. So we can't wait until after 2021. Of course, it's the ideal thing if we can do this with the whole world. The second ideal is if the whole of Europe goes along with it. This is an urgent and urgent problem. It is not for nothing that I started by saying that twenty years ago we also found that it was in the interests of the Netherlands to take action. But at what point would the Secretary of State move towards a national minimum price in the ETS, just as other countries have done?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u156	Firstly, I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren that we cannot wait until after 2021. I have also heard the words of Christiana Figueres very well. She said that if you do not make very decisive proposals in these five years, you will not get there in 2030. Let me just say in my words what has been said. I agree. But we do not have to wait until 2021, because then, if it is right, the new revision of the directive will come into force. The important thing is that, on the road to 2018, we already agree on the Commission's proposal and also make sure that what the IPCC delivers in 2018 to analysis for that 1.5 ̊C can also be included in what is to be achieved in the ETS as a reduction target. We need that flexibility. Again, we do not disagree on the importance of the purpose. It is about the question: what is the most effective route to it? There is now a proposal from the Commission. My idea is: let's make sure that that is just accepted, because that is grossly a good proposal. Next, we need to ensure that there is flexibility so that what we are going to agree on in 2018 on how to proceed, can also be included. That is an important point. That's what I'm doing now. When we get the idea that the Commission's proposal will not receive support, for example, or that it will be very difficult and indeed will take years, we will have to come back from that strategy and look at what should happen. But that is not the time yet. I will continue my speech and come to national, energy, innovation and so on. Indeed, we will now have to take further measures quickly to reduce CO emissions. Above all, we need to look at measures that also have a good impact on the development of our country as a society that is moving towards CO-poor. That's the point, of course. In the short term, therefore, we should not forget good measures. All Members have asked questions about Urgenda. The Chamber has also discussed this with the Cabinet on several occasions. The simple theorem is as follows. We execute the verdict, but we have appealed. We do that for different reasons. We, as the EU, indeed have a further target in 2030, and we would very much like to commit to it. We've done that before, and we're making plans for that now. That path towards what we need to do in 2030 does not need to be cut with nail cutters on one year. So there's just an objection. The second objection is that it does not take into account, for example, what happens in the countries around us. Some members said that we should not talk about a waterbed, but it is wise to look at it. So we do not disagree, in principle, on achieving ambitious objectives, not even at all. They go far, as far as I'm concerned. As I said, throughout the debate after Paris, we are also going to look further at how ambitious we can be. But the discussion is about whether we should be prescribed by the judge on what precise path we will eventually achieve our objectives. That sentence is there, and that's what we're doing. But we did appeal. We have also sent that information to the Chamber in writing, with the whole reasoning involved. Indeed, we are already working on measures in 2016. The room has received the ibo. We have already discussed this with each other in detail. In fact, this also meets the desire to show something this year. We have also discussed the coordination of climate and energy policies. It is indeed very important that all sectors contribute to this. This requires changes in the energy sector as well as, for example, the realisation of energy-efficient houses. Minister Blok has not yet been mentioned, but he also has a very important role to play in this whole story. Minister Kamp, however, is working very hard on energy saving and renewable energy and he coordinates that part of the policy within the cabinet. I'm responsible for achieving the greenhouse gas reduction. I'll coordinate that. Minister Dijsselbloem is working on the sustainability of funding. In short, there are a lot of rulers working together on this. I think a next cabinet will decide how it distributes its tasks. I'm not going over that anyway. I would like to say this: the question is not so much who you put something with. The question is rather whether you have a good programme and the political will to get on with it. At the end of the day, that's the heart of the matter. If you have one minister, but a very bad program, you haven't made much progress. I wanted to put that in the Chamber just for consideration. Furthermore, I do not have an opinion on this, because I do not think this is something for now. It's just pre-emptive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u157	A question from Mrs Dik-Faber, her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u158	The words 'it is a matter of political will' are taken from my heart. The Secretary of State already referred to the ibo investigation that's on the table. I'm happy with that research because it gives a lot of insight. I do not think, however, that these are the measures that the cabinet is going to take this year. You can, but then the cabinet has to make a choice. This year, too, the cabinet will have to take steps to implement this. I heard the Secretary of State say between his nose and his lips that this is for another cabinet. I would regret that very much. I may have misunderstood, but I very much hope that the cabinet will come up with a proposal based on the ibo investigation: in 2016 we will start with that and that and that measure, because we simply do not want to wait until there is another cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u159	I'm in some kind of confusion. We sent the Chamber a letter with that ibo investigation. We have even indicated to the Chamber free of charge and for nothing, I would almost say, a preference option for the Cabinet, namely that we want to implement the Urgendavonnis, because that is what we are talking about, we think it is sensible to close these two power stations from the 1990s even more, if we can, and we have set all kinds of conditions for that. You know this letter, and you also know when the cabinet will come up with a final proposal. That is what the letter says: this autumn. So I may be wrong, but I think we're just doing what you're asking. Perhaps that is not your proposal, Mrs Dik-Faber, but it is a proposal which we say may well be very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u160	Thank you for the explanation from the Secretary of State. I understand that there is hard work in the cabinet, that we can look forward to the final proposals for budgets this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u161	Well, that's what you're saying. I said this fall. I do not know which budget that is or is not exactly for. I'm afraid to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u162	I assume that the content of the letter on this point is decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u163	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u164	I'm gonna go over that letter one more time. Then we'll talk again this fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u165	In the meantime, I'm sure we've given the Chamber a sneak preview of what we're after. We haven't been secretive about that, have we? But I'm learning every day, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u166	All of us, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u167	Mrs Mulder asked about the evaluation of the energy agreement. As agreed, the agreement will be reviewed this year. That's what we're doing. I referred to the fact that two days ago we reported to the Chamber that all parties to the energy agreement have the confidence that we are achieving the goals. We have also mentioned a number of things that we are going to do anyway. Mrs Mulder also asked about the Energy Dialogue, which should lead to the sustainability of the built environment being improved. This dialogue is indeed about allowing us to include signals from society in the development of a policy agenda on what happens after 2023, because, of course, we need to move forward. I cannot anticipate exactly what this Energy Dialogue is going to yield. That process is now under way. We can see, however, that a great many actions have already been launched to improve the sustainability of the built-up environment. The Minister for Economic Affairs, in his view of heat, has indicated how he intends to improve the sustainability of the heat supply. Mrs Mulder rightly raised the question of what this means for households. What do they notice? Is there anything to be gained from generating renewable energy? As a citizen, when you mount solar panels on your roof, you see a lot coming back on balance. You can also participate in cooperatives that collectively generate renewable energy. You see more and more interesting mixes of agricultural farms and neighborhoods that do this together. Those cooperatives can make use of the SDE+ scheme, and this is already happening. I can tell from her words that Mrs Mulder is in favour of broad support for the construction of windmills. I think the idea of participating in wind farms for citizens is very interesting. The support base is also important for the cabinet. However, you must always look at the costs involved. We will have to make a constant assessment on this point. Mr Vos rightly mentioned CCS. In the letter from Minister Kamp of 18 April, it was stated in 2007 that this should have been achieved in a European context in ten years. At the time, the companies indicated that they would make the new plants suitable for CCS. That's what happened. We can see, however, that this has not taken such a flight since 2007 that it is already being applied on a large scale. It has therefore not become the state of the art, although it was intended to do so. You can't just force it for that reason. As part of the motion by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Veldhoven, we are looking at a wide range of measures. This is also in the reconnaissance. We'll get back to that. This is one of the options under investigation. Then there is the specific possibilities for innovation policy. It is indeed very important to look at this much more. This is also evident from the ibo. Climate and innovation are really very important. Cleantech has also been mentioned in this context. In the long term, you can market such initiatives. In the response to ibo-CO, it has been indicated that we ask the Science, Technology and Innovation Advisory Council to advise on long-term energy innovation policy. We're really on top of that. Mrs Mulder asked what I think about climate innovations not being included by the CPB. That's a very tricky point. I have previously found something of this from a very different responsibility, that of education. Investment in education was never considered profitable. It is very difficult for the CPB to value this type of innovation. So it applies not only to climate innovations but much wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u168	If you know that innovations are not included, it can do something with election programmes. That's my concern, because that's a missed opportunity. If everyone does so in this way, you get what the cabinet is doing right now, namely less investing in innovation. You know that innovation will generate more jobs in the coming years, especially in terms of climate. Adaptation will enable us to take steps in this area and make money on it. I'm really sorry that the CPB has such an impact on this. I understand the Secretary of State says she recognizes it from her education period. However, I am genuinely concerned about it, especially when we know that we need it for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u169	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u170	Can the Secretary of State, within the Cabinet and also at the CPB, once break a lance to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u171	Custom models.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u172	I don't think that's something I have to commit to tonight in this way, regardless of whether I have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u173	That would be a powerful signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u174	Yeah, I get that. I think it is important that we have this type of discussion with those who are ultimately responsible for it. Of course, the CPB also has its own role. This can mainly be the subject of a public debate. I note that Mrs Mulder is already working on this. However, from my position, I cannot warn the CPB at this point for the last time, to put it very flat. That would suggest that I have more influence than Mrs. Mulder thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u175	Last question or response from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u176	It is good to hear that the Secretary of State is committed to innovation and, in particular, to innovation policy. There are incredibly many opportunities for Dutch business. I would like to put a very specific point to the Minister. At Tata Steel, there is a possibility. We talked about it this afternoon in general about the Competition Council for a proper CO reduction. This is important for our global competitiveness. With this kind of innovation, we can move forward in other countries. This is the type of innovation involved, as far as the CDA is concerned. Does the Secretary of State know the specific case of Tata Steel, with the CO reduction targets that have been calculated for that purpose, and is it prepared to look in depth at the last remaining funding that is still needed to bridge so-called valley of death? I think this can really mean something to the Netherlands in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u177	No, I can't just admit it. I don't know the example myself. Well, I'm interested in it, so I'd like to look into it, of course. I also want to see what that can teach us and what good examples are in it. Now issue an uncovered check I don't have that check and then it's usually just empty I really shouldn't do it. Apart from that, the resources for innovation policy are not on my budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u178	Look. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u179	In this context, I think it is important to say with Mr Vos that it is very good to support that boost in cleantech. Mr Smaling said that the distribution of the lusts and the burden might be distorted and asked whether we should not pass on what a CO-neutral society means by 2050. Everyone will, of course, have to contribute to tackling the climate issue, both present and future generations. It's no different. It is also clear from the ibo report "Just not to calculate exactly how expensive certain technical solutions are in 2050." So he's asking us to do some kind of prediction that you can't actually do with the best will in the world that way. Precisely calculating the cost of a CO-neutral society is simply not possible, also because the technique changes. We have seen ourselves in recent years, for example, that renewable energy is becoming increasingly cheaper. So there are also changes that may be a bit predictable, but not very precise. The Netherlands Bank also gives advice on the future. There was an interesting debate between Mr Dijkstra and Mrs Dik-Faber. I have, by the way, appreciated the contribution of the Dutch Bank very much. I think it is very good that it is also looking at this, also because, of course, it is important for longer-term financial stability for investors to know whether they are doing things that are still profitable in 2050. On the contrary, I am happy to see that the bank is also making a green trip and I hope that it does not end there. I think it's very good. I don't think we're moving forward, but we're working on it right now. Mrs Van Tongeren asked another question about the stop on drilling. There is good regulation of the gas fields. In recent years, we have already come to a halving of gas extraction. Mr Vos has already indicated that. So that's really been immense. There is now an energy dialogue with society about the necessary transition. I do not want to anticipate new plans on this point tonight; I do not think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u180	Can I make another comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u181	If I am flexible, Mrs Van Tongeren, you will have the opportunity to make half an interruption. You may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u182	Then there's an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u183	No, no, no, you really had two. I'm sorry, Mr Madlener. Go ahead, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u184	It is also a good thing to prevent companies from investing heavily in a new bore to say: make a small pass on the spot and do not leave it to incident policy. For example, we got our hands together on Terschelling for no new drilling. We did it in another place. It is better to say: first we want to know what this plan is like and, as the Secretary of State often says, build it step by step, and not let companies make a million investments for a new drilling, and then tell them to close the tap there anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u185	That risk is up to companies to decide for themselves. I say at the moment: we are working on our policies, we are doing a lot on many issues, such as the sustainability and reduction of extraction, also for reasons other than the CO debate. I am not going to go into that now, no matter how kind Mrs Van Tongeren looks at it. I just don't think that's right. Then I come to the next question in this block. It's a lot of questions, so there's nothing I can do about it taking a long time. I'm really trying. This is about emissions from agriculture. That is a subject which, of course, is very close to my heart. Agriculture, including livestock farming, will, like other sectors, have to contribute to tackling climate change. Fertilisation is used to tackle methane emissions, a strong greenhouse gas. And this also makes an important contribution to renewable energy. In greenhouse horticulture a huge contribution is also made through the application of geothermal energy. I am very hopeful about that, by the way. If we continue this well, horticulture can be the parade of how you can produce sustainably at this point. I therefore object to the assumption that agriculture is mainly a problem factor. We have a lot of technological knowledge in the Netherlands. With that, we have the key to the solution in our hands. It is not for nothing that we are doing a good job with this worldwide. I've been able to experience that myself. With our seed production, for example, we are able to grow crops that need much less water and much less energy and that are much more resistant to diseases, which can also be grown in very difficult situations, such as in Africa, in high quality and with good harvests. And we also supply logistics and a lot of other things. When it comes to protein... I can see Mr Wassenberg coming, so I can wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u186	The Secretary of State says seed production could be a solution. However, I would like to draw attention to an interesting article that was published in Nature some time ago and which looked at more than one hundred articles and a meta-study on organic farming. This shows that organic farming would be the main solution. Organic farming keeps the water more in the ground. You have crops that need less water. All the advantages mentioned by the Secretary of State can therefore be found in organic farming rather than seed production. Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u187	I think it's a matter of and, and... I think there are a lot of good methods to be found in organic farming with which we literally have to go global. We're renowned for it all over the world. At the same time, you can see that our horticultural sector is number one in terms of innovation, especially in this area. We're incredibly good at that. I'd be sorry if we started fighting that with each other. Mr Wassenberg also mentioned meat consumption. Of course, we recognise the need to allow alternatives to the supply and consumption of animal proteins. Through the top sectors policy, we have promoted promising initiatives on the use of new proteins in products and on the development of alternative protein sources. I call legumes, seaweed and algae. Even insects and farmed meat come along. In the end, I think it would be better to stimulate it through that direction than through a meat tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u188	In this context, I would like to repeat the words that the Secretary of State just said. Maybe it's better to do one thing and the other. You can bet on alternatives, but you can also bet on a meat tax to make the environmental and climate damage pay by the consumer in this case. So it's not either, or, but so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u189	I would like to say once again that I believe that a comprehensive note has recently been published entitled Towards a new food policy. This is a subject that concerns, among other things, this issue. The cabinet has made several proposals to the Chamber on this matter. I think that these are very effective proposals. By the way, you can see that there are a lot of good ways to seduce people, for example, to eat less meat. We support all these initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u190	I would like to repeat what the Danish ethic council is proposing. He writes: "Denmark still has a long way to go in terms of sustainability. Only calling on consumers to reduce their meat consumption or to seek alternatives is not effective." That's what they write in Denmark. So more needs to be done. You could say that what applies to Denmark also applies to the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State not think that more needs to be done in the Netherlands in this respect, as in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u191	Mr Wassenberg just said that the Danish Government has already implemented measures, but I do not think that is the case. In fact, I believe that there are always proposals coming along, whether or not they are proposals. However, I am really saying this out of my head. This also shows how complicated it is. It is not so easy, for example, to immediately achieve your goal with the introduction of a meat tax. I therefore say once again that much needs to be done. I agree with Mr Wassenberg. We must certainly find the way of the consumer's temptation. This means that we support innovation and that we need to work on awareness. So there are a lot of routes that we have to and want to go on. However, that is different from introducing a meat tax now. Mr Smaling said that we should also look at the drifting of the peat bog. It is true that greenhouse gases are released by lowering water levels in peat areas, for example. Mr Smaling is quite right in this respect, both technically and in terms of content. This reduction in the water level results in oxidation. Netting can make a reduction contribution. In different nature areas we are already working on machining. However, we take into account that this is not possible in every area. Is there infrastructure around the area? Do people live there? Vernatting is part of Dutch nature policy. It is also an option which, of course, can play a role again in the context of the Union's LULUCF proposal. However, I must contradict the expectation that we will be able to do this on a truly large scale and throughout the Netherlands. There are a number of problems in practice. However, this is an option that is already part of policy at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u192	I didn't use the word "large-scale." However, this is a very large area. There's a platform called "Sleepy Soil." There has also been a conference in the whole of Holland Zakt recently. There was a huge amount of knowledge from Friese, North Holland and South Holland peatlands. If you add up how much CO emissions you can avoid with this, you come at a huge amount. Secretary of State Dijksma was previously Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. In doing so, it has gained experience with land exchange, the construction of an ecological main structure and the relocation of farms. So I would say: do it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u193	Yeah, I have that experience, and that's exactly my doubt. I also found political groups on my way here and there. Even yours, I think. Buijtenland van Rhoon, I would like to give you an example of this. They said that this was not what they wanted, because it would affect, for example, the cultural and historical landscape. It's gotta be a little bit different. In other words, yes, it is an option. I've had experience with it. I agree with you intellectually that it can make a contribution, and we should not stop thinking about it and looking at what other options we have. I think that, from the European debate surrounding the LULUCF policy, it will come back to us. I would like to contradict the idea that we can arrange this very easily. That's just the experience I've had. Very often resistance arises, even among the people in the environment who do not like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u194	The example was really badly chosen, because Rhoon is beautiful sea clay that you should not excavate at all. I made the Krimpenerwaard an offer. It's a municipality that wouldn't mind jerking itself off, because you're six, seven meters below sea level. How much further do you want to drop? We're talking sea level rise, but bottom descent has the same effect. We should not underestimate what that will mean for the peat meadow landscapes over the next decades. Rhoon is a really worthless example.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u195	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u196	I'd work on it anyway. It's one of the options that doesn't come along at all, and I think it belongs there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u197	I come with a better example: Engbertsdijksvenen. Mr Smaling knows that there is an example. It has been a proposal from the cabinet that we should go and get rid of it. It's peat meadow area, vulnerable bogs. I had to talk the blisters on my tongue in the Chamber to get a step further. The file hasn't been finalised yet. I am not saying that we disagree, I think we agree, but there are a few other people who need to be convinced. I therefore say to Mr Smaling: do your best!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u198	This dossier holds a promise for the future. The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u199	I have three more dots in my infamous block of 'other', which doesn't really have to be so infamous. VAT discussions I refer to the Secretary of State for Finance. The Commission is currently negotiating a "carve out" for TTIP and CETA. Of course, we are paying close attention to the fact that agreements are being made that do not go against climate change. Finally, the Ecodesign Directive. Mrs Dik-Faber asked for this. This is a motion, at least I assume, which was tabled during the budget debate last year, asking for the Ecodesign Directive to be amended in order to stimulate the circular economy. The Netherlands is now trying to adopt Council conclusions on this at the June Environment Council. Member States call on the Commission to encourage the life of products by adapting the Ecodesign Directive. In short, we have used our Presidency to implement this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u200	Thank you for answering the questions. I assume the Chamber needs a second term. I suggest we get it straightened out. It is customary for you to have one third of the speaking time, which is one minute and twenty seconds. I have decided to make a generous gesture and raise it by more than 10%: you will have one and a half minutes to make your contribution. A point of order from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u201	I live on the assumption that we will have two minutes for motions and one more question to the Secretary of State. I have also made my contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u202	The default rule is always a third. Let us say that you will strive for a minute and a half. You will now have the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u203	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the implementation of the climate agreement offers opportunities for the Dutch economy;]] [[Considering that the Energy Agreement agreed that the Netherlands should have a top ten position on the global CleanTech Ranking in 2030, as established by the 2012 report Clean Economy, living planet by Ronald Berger;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the current position on the global CleanTech Ranking and the measures to reach a top ten position in the review of the Energy Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Paris Agreement obliges the Netherlands to draw up a national plan for achieving the objectives set out in this Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas meeting these objectives requires that not all gas and oil resources are extracted worldwide;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow any new drilling for oil and gas in the Wadden Sea until it is clear whether this fits within the national plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has signed the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[noting that the Convention will enter into force once at least 55 countries, jointly responsible for at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, have ratified the Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to start the ratification process of the climate agreement by the Netherlands during its Presidency of the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Agnes Mulder and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-138]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber and Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-39]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Smaling, Van Veldhoven and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u204	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer in her term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u205	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United Kingdom is considering a minimum price for CO and France;]] [[noting that the Netherlands Bank warns of major shocks to the economy if it is not used in time for a CO-neutral economy and therefore advocates a higher carbon price;]] [[calls on the Government to aim for a minimum price for CO within the European Emissions Trading System (ETS) and to cooperate with neighbouring countries to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the climate agreement calls for additional efforts to accelerate energy transition and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the short and long term;]] [[Calls on the Government to conduct independent research into the impact of the climate agreement on the Dutch climate and energy targets for 2020 and 2030, and to present this research at the end of the budget process in autumn 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension funds and insurers want to invest in the transition to a climate-neutral economy, but that there is no regulatory framework to achieve a level playing field;]] [[asks the government, in consultation with De Nederlandsche Bank and the financial sector:]] [[agree on how financial institutions will contribute to the 1.5oC target as agreed in Paris;]] [[consider what measures the sector can support in this regard and explore how the climate intensity of loans and investments of Dutch financial institutions can become more transparent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-141]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-142]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u206	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I have one motion, so I can read it to you in peace. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that global livestock production accounts for around 15% of all greenhouse gas emissions from human activities and is one of the biggest drivers of climate change;]] [[Whereas the polluter pays principle is an effective and fair starting point and that increasing VAT on products that have a significant impact on the climate, such as meat and dairy, is a logical step in the consistent implementation of this widely embraced principle;]] [[noting that Denmark is already considering introducing a meat tax to comply with the Paris agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to levy the standard VAT rate of 21% on the sale of food containing more than half of animal ingredients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u207	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions, but first I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I know she has a long day in the Chamber. So it is good that we can have this debate together in this way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the closure of a CO-intensive installation may result in a surplus of allowances within the ETS;]] [[calls on the Government to insist in Brussels that, when a CO-intensive fossil plant, such as a coal power plant, is closed down, an equal share of CO rights can be withdrawn from the market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to have an independent party pass on the information or add the measures taken in favour of the Urgenda ruling to the court's CO reduction target,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of saving CO in the non-ETS sector;]] [[calls on the Government, when the non-ETS target is clear, to explore the possibility of building a bridge between the non-ETS and the ETS to reward non-ETS sectors for energy savings through ETS rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Smaling, Dik-Faber, Jan Vos and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-45]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Van Tongeren, Smaling, Dik-Faber and Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-146]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u208	The suggestion to do research on this is to try to enrich the palette of existing options to save COte wages. You can do that by having fewer rights in the ETS or by looking at whether you could bring more under the ETS. Building a bridge or establishing a link between the ETS and the non-ETS could contribute to this. That is why I would ask you to examine this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u209	Mr. Chairman. I have to say that Engbertsdijksvenen is a very small high bog area. There is also no peat meadow landscape. I'll get on my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that significant measures will be needed now and in the future to counter the effects of climate change;]] [[Whereas measures which bring climate objectives closer to them should be supported as widely as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate the impact on training and employment in the choice of measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smaling and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u210	I'm on my second motion. Here we go again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Heel Holland Zakt, but in particular the peat meadow areas;]] [[Whereas groundwater levels are often reduced here, resulting in oxidation of the dry peat and even more soil reduction;]] [[noting that the Frisian peat areas alone emit 1.5 million tonnes of CO each year;]] [[calls on the Government to take part-natting of peat meadow areas in the Netherlands as an option to achieve the climate targets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u211	Thank you very much. We're not there yet, but the answer is already in such a way that you feel like you're a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u212	Mr. Chairman. Energy saving is, of course, a wonderful thing. No one in the Netherlands wants to waste energy, companies do not and citizens do not. It is going to go wrong if political energy savings are to be imposed, taxes are to be introduced and citizens are to be burdened with other people who can pay for solar panels. Shell is perhaps going to make millions of profits with the increased tax on Dutch citizens. We therefore do not need that climate agreement. It's bad for the Dutch economy. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the climate agreement is bad for the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the government to refer the climate agreement to the trash bin,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u213	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. Even to questions on matters for which it is not directly responsible, it has replied in detail. Compliments for that. I have one motion and a few comments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas innovations to prevent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions are urgently needed to meet the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands Bank and the interdepartmental research advise cost-efficiency CO reduction measures to pursue policies on climate innovation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that climate innovation as an overarching objective is specifically addressed in innovation policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u214	It is good to hear that there will be more clarity about climate finance in 2018 and that loans will be part of it. The Secretary of State hasn't really said anything about guarantees yet. Maybe she can go into that more specifically. I also asked about the reporting obligation. The Secretary of State said that this point is not quite clear yet. It has done us good that the shipping sector and the aviation sector should contribute to the objectives and that the Secretary of State is going to make an effort to do so. I'd like to present the case on Tata Steel to the Secretary of State. I think this company is doing good things and really wants to reduce CO emissions. That's good for our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u215	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Paris Climate Agreement agreed to limit global warming by human action to well below 2°C and to aim for a maximum of 1.5°C;]] [[Whereas this objective can only be achieved by keeping as much CO from the atmosphere as possible using all available and responsible techniques, including capture and storage of CO (CCS);]] [[Whereas the Netherlands could be at the forefront of this and the further development of CCS could lead to new employment;]] [[Calls on the Government to invest in techniques that stimulate CO capture in industrial processes so that the use of natural gas and biomass in energy supply remains possible for as long as necessary;]] [[Calls on the Government to invest in research, development and demonstration of techniques to extract CO from the atmosphere and capture it on Earth, for example in forests, in products or in rocks, or stored underground, which is also referred to as "negative emissions of CO';]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber on progress in the autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that decisions on a new heat supply should be taken from time to time in municipalities, e.g. in the construction of new buildings;]] [[Whereas the combustion of gas for domestic heating releases CO, while there are alternatives such as heat grids;]] [[Whereas many gas pipelines need to be replaced in the coming years;]] [[Whereas heat supply can be determined in municipal planning plans and in network operators' investment plans;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to establish in the Regional Planning Act that a strategy for CO neutrality will be included in municipal land use plans by 2050,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Jan Vos. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-152]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos and Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u216	I've only committed one interruption, Mr. President. The time of that second interruption is well enough for this motion to be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u217	That's clever.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u218	It's the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is making a major catch-up within the European Union in the field of renewable energy;]] [[Whereas investing in renewable energy innovation is an important driver for new jobs;]] [[Considering that the Dutch technical universities have all the potential to crank up this job engine, and investing in smart cities is in line with the Communication "What After Paris?" of the European Commission;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to stimulate cleantech campuses and green innovation hubs around technical universities and thereby promote the energy transition including employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Jan Vos, Smaling and Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u219	Thanks to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u220	Thank you very much. I call Mr Dijkstra. No, there is an interruption for Mr Vos. May I ask you to climb the chair again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u221	I have an informative question about the first motion. I haven't seen the lyrics yet and it happened very quickly. I think I heard CCS and CO capture in industrial processes. In my view, this means that we are talking about the energy-intensive industry with a lot of CO emissions and not about the coal-fired power stations. I think it is important to hear exactly how the motion should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u222	I can imagine coal plants using CCS as well. If the capture and storage of CCS can reach 100% in ten years, those coal plants can produce as far as I am concerned. I'm talking about not adding CO to the atmosphere. In Rotterdam there is now the ROAD project, which has been discussed for a long time. A great deal of European money is available for this. We just have to try to rig that up, too. But the motion is broader and is about CCS in general. In the motion, I focus in particular on extracting CO from the atmosphere. We will also have to move towards negative emissions in the future. That is, of course, very interesting, also in the context of biomass. That biomass has CO stored in it. Then if you burn that biomass and store the CO, you're going to eventually extract CO from the atmosphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u223	Mrs Van Veldhoven, do you have a question for clarification?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u224	Sure, I got one on the second motion. My group is very sympathetic to this motion, but the subject is linked to that of my colleague spokesperson for innovation. I would ask Mr Vos to give my colleague an opportunity to look at the motion. Perhaps we can also support this motion. Perhaps that is another option for Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u225	I would almost like to speak for Mr Verhoeven and say that it is a very good motion. I am almost certain that he would like to support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u226	Something good's blooming on this one. I would like to thank Mr Vos for his reply and I now give the floor to Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u227	Mr. Chairman. There are no motions from the VVD side. That also makes sense, because I am positive about the future and about our expertise and innovation. I am not going to repeat it, but I welcome this debate. We can now finish a bit and we can go one step further. And the debate was not only a discussion about renewable energy, but it was much more. Think of recycling and the concrete agreement. 1 million tonnes of CO with a concrete chord: I see bread in that. Using garbage and stuff like that, that's what we should do. That also saves a lot of subsidies. I have one more question. I am still curious about the role of business. I'm excited about that. The water, I think. I see Mrs Schultz everywhere with deltas, but how are we going to take agriculture and horticulture on trade missions and the like to market our expertise, help other countries and thus also achieve climate gains? How are we gonna do that? I look forward to the answer to the question of how we are going to further shape ratification, because there are, of course, a lot of questions open. I would like to emphasise the global aspect once again. After all, we do not need to change our whole lifestyle. The rest of the world is not going to do that either, because it wants to move forward. However, let us always look at the climate with that global view. This means that we have to steer towards one goal and price emissions. Then you'll get a lot further, and we'll have to do everything we can. Let's please let people be free in their choices, let's be forward-looking and a little positive. Then I guess we're gonna be a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u228	Does the VVD support the ratification of the Paris climate agreement or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u229	The short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u230	That's clear. Will you finish your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u231	Yes. I have one more thing to say about Mr Vos' motion. The VVD is in favour of CCS. However, the motion now before us contains the word 'invest'. I think that's a little early. I have seen that CCS is one of the cheapest methods mentioned in the climate agreement to make that possible. Perhaps Mr Vos will be able to hold the motion until later, so that we can discuss this matter. If the motion as it stands is put to the vote on Tuesday, I must advise my group not to use the word 'invest'. Because it's an uncovered check. If we keep him till the fall, I'd love to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u232	Mr Vos has a communication on this point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u233	I liked D66's proposal to combine the role of Secretary of State and Minister in the next cabinet, but I think ambitions have clearly been shown here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u234	I call Mr Dijkstra, if he wishes to respond. Disappointment signs off?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u235	No, not at all, but as the motion now looks, I have to dissuade it, because it's an investment with an uncovered check. In the autumn we can review the motion again, because CCS is a beautiful method, which is really necessary and can even lead to negative emissions. That also saves a lot of other things that people notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u236	Thank you for your contribution. This brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he needs five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u237	It's 11:17. The Secretary of State is ready to answer and give a response to a single question as well as an appreciation of the motions. I suggest that everyone should respond, if necessary, to the appreciation of their own motions, but avoid repeating the discussion. There has been extensive discussion. The arguments were sufficiently exchanged. It's all been found in the motions. Given the time, I would ask you not to repeat the discussions. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u238	Mr. Chairman. I will try to provide a quick but careful assessment of the 17 motions that have been tabled. Let's see if we can do business. It starts with Mrs Van Tongeren, of course. She asked for information on our current position on the Global CleanTech ranking and on measures to reach the top ten position when evaluating the Energy Agreement. My problem with the motion isn't that she's asking me to visualize it, but it's the time. The parties to the Energy Agreement are currently discussing how to fulfil the objective of a position in the top ten of the CleanTech ranking. These talks must, of course, be concluded before we discuss this further. As soon as these talks are completed, I am, of course, prepared to forward the result to the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren must give more room in her motion in time to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u239	Perhaps this exegesis is sufficient and acceptable to Mrs Van Tongeren in the sense that this explanation leads to a positive appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u240	Sure. There's no specific time period. If the Secretary of State sends that part of the evaluation to the Chamber later, I'm fine with it. It cannot, of course, be until the parties to the energy agreement are out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u241	No. That's exactly the point. That should actually be reflected in the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u242	Then we change the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u243	I trust you will find a good wording for that. Otherwise, we will provide technical assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u244	Subject to amendment of the wording, the motion in part No. 138 Judgment Chamber received. Or will it even be taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u245	No, judge Chamber, subject to redrafting. If the motion stays the way she is, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. That's perfectly clear. The motion in part No. 139 I don't recommend. We had a wide-ranging exchange of arguments during the debate. On the motion in part No. 140, I have a question. If the fact that I have already started drafting a legislative proposal can be seen as starting the ratification process, this motion supports the policy. That's what we're doing. If it's anything other than this, I have a problem in time. I need to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u246	No, it's no different than the Secretary of State says. It just seemed chic to me. We have begun to prepare for the plenary debate. I was the mouse on the bridge, but we've all been there. The Secretary of State was tougher than us, so to speak. It seemed chic to me to end up as the first speaker with a motion to ratify it as the Netherlands. That is actually what this motion calls for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u247	Then it is also fancy not to take her over, but to leave the judgment to the Chamber, albeit with a positive vote opinion. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u248	That's clear. Judgment of the Chamber on the motion in part No. So 140.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u249	I now come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 141 by Mrs Dik-Faber. I do not recommend it for the reasons I mentioned in the debate. I prefer to focus on strengthening the ETS, so that a good market price is created. By the way, the market stability reserve will start in 2019. We are now working on tightening the ceiling in line with the European Union's 2030 target. I therefore reject this motion, but tell the House that I will return to it if it appears after the summer or during the course of the negotiations that the strategic route I intend to take is dead. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u250	The motion in part No. 141 is therefore dissuaded. The motion in part No. 142?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u251	I must also advise against it, because it calls on me to conduct independent investigations. The IPCC and the European Commission are already doing this. They make analyses and the Netherlands will contribute its knowledge. In 2018, the so-called "facilitative dialogue" on the level of ambition will follow globally. That is precisely the time to look at what this means for the EU and for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u252	So you're dissuading the motion in part No. 142.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u253	I want the verdict on the motion in part No. 143 leave to the Chamber. The financial sector is looking at making the CO footprint clear and transparent, among other things. Individual institutions can, of course, give their insights. And of course we can see how the Empire and the sector can support each other in taking steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u254	You leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 143 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u255	The motion in part No. 144, for all the reasons I have already mentioned in the debate. I have said that it is very important to raise awareness about the footprint of food. We only choose other instruments for this. So there is not so much a discussion about the purpose as there is a discussion about the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u256	The motion in part No. 144 is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u257	Now the motion in part No. 145. With Mrs Van Veldhoven cum suis, the cabinet recognises that further improvement of the ETS is not only possible, but also highly desirable. In line with the recommendation from the ibo on CO, we are looking into this, as well as options such as removing surplus allowances from the market and purchasing rights. That is why we need a system in Europe that works so that this price incentive can do its job. We will also actively draw attention to this. We are already doing this in Europe. I will also draw attention to the option mentioned by Mrs Van Veldhoven to withdraw rights from the market when one or more coal plants are closed down. With this explanation, I would like to support this motion. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u258	The Secretary of State makes the judgment on the motion in part No. 145 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u259	Mrs Van Veldhoven's motion on item No. 146 is about an independent investigation. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. We will pass things on as part of the ibo-follow-up. We do that all the time, so we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u260	The Secretary of State makes the judgment on the motion in part No. 146 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u261	The motion in part No. 147 I must advise against. That motion concerns the possibility of an exchange between ETS and non-ETS. That was already a discussion point in the October Council, but at that time there was insufficient support for it. However, there is the possibility for Member States to restrict the use of non-ETS measures that are very expensive through the use of ETS rights. The tricky thing about this whole story is that maybe you get negative effects when you make the cake bigger, as it were. I don't think it's wise to bet on that right now. However, Mrs Van Veldhoven is right that this debate is taking place at the moment. The problem is that you can work on this in two very different ways. You can actually do greenwashing, so make sure that the objectives discussed in Paris are watered down. That's what happens when you make the playing field so big that the pressure drops. I'd like to warn you about that. That is why I am not inclined to accept this motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u262	I do not think that the Secretary of State's concerns about greenwashing are justified, as the total number of rights will thus not increase. It is only about bringing more under the ETS. You don't necessarily have to do this at European level; you could also decide within the Dutch allocation to reward the parties and companies that do very well outside the ETS in the field of CO-saving with some rights that would otherwise be auctioned. You'll give it to them as a reward. But this is a research motion. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to give this some thought. If she's willing, I'll take the motion. With this explanatory statement we can see whether we have a better understanding of what could and could not be useful together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u263	Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u264	Yeah, let's think about it a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u265	Then I'll hold the motion for a moment, so we can have a moment to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u266	Yeah, because it's vulnerable. I can see where you're going with this, but that could also be a Trojan horse. And that's not supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u267	I'd like to hear that again from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u268	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (31793, No. 147). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u269	I come to speak about the motion on item No. 148 by Mr Smaling and Mr Mulder. Of course, we are also looking at other effects when formulating measures. Employment is rightly mentioned. We also want broad support. The European Commission is also doing this in its impact assessment. I would like to leave this motion, with the idea that it is support policy, to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u270	Isn't the motion being taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u271	No. I think it is a good thing that the Chamber also shows that it has a very social heart. Right? The motion in part No. 149 deals with the decline in peat meadow areas. Actually, I've already said that's an option. We didn't have a discussion about that either. The discussion focused on how difficult this option is to achieve. Mr Smaling once again beat me on the precise content of the areas. I'll give him credit for that right away. This motion is policy support, because we are actually already doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u272	So the verdict on the motion is left to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u273	Yes. The motion in part No. 150 is Mr Madlener's "Throw Everything In The Trash" Motion. I'm not gonna do that. So I must strongly discourage that motion. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u274	The motion in part No. 150 is not recommended, with the note in the footnote "with force'.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u275	That's right. In the motion in part No. 151 calls on the government to ensure that climate innovation is considered as an overarching objective. I would also like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. We are also working on climate innovation within the various top sectors. That gets a lot of attention. That happens within their own programs. So I am not going to work on all kinds of structures, but I hope I can interpret the motion in such a way that we also have to consider the whole issue in innovation policy, which is really important. The ibo also shows that this is really very valuable. If I make the motion to part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u276	I see that Mrs Mulder would like to make another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u277	I agree, because the ibo was a very clear reason for me. But we really need to pay sufficient attention to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u278	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u279	Does this still lead to takeover by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u280	No, I think that attention also calls for an adopted motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u281	The Secretary of State doesn't want to deprive the Chamber of the joy of voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u282	The motion in part No. Mr Vos' 152 talks about investing in CCS technology. I have also checked with the friends of Economic Affairs, because of course I do not want to get into trouble on the question of whether or not it is possible. Under the conditions that the motion calls for innovation to be promoted in these CO-reducing techniques and that we can also give this a place in the top sectors as we have them, I could leave the vote on the motion to the House. I think it's important that we see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u283	Subject to the exegesis provided by the Secretary of State, the ruling on the motion shall be left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u284	There's not a very large uncovered check coming from underneath. I just want to say that. There is scope in the top sectors to stimulate this type of research. I just had to check it out, but it's possible from Economic Affairs. In that sense, if I may read the motion in this way, this motion can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u285	I see that Mr Dijkstra wishes to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u286	It's a good thing it's been sorted out. That's good to hear. But it's not there. Now I don't know what the procedural rules are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u287	Perhaps we should look at it in editorial terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u288	The request is really different. It says the word "invest" twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u289	I have a feeling that's going to be the subject of conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u290	Within the current frameworks. See, that's the point. It doesn't mean that suddenly a huge extra money is being dragged from somewhere else. That's how you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u291	I do not know how procedural it is if Mr Dijkstra is going to discourage my motions every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u292	Within its own coalition, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u293	I find it confusing, because this motion speaks of investment and, of course, it must be within the framework of that. We regularly discuss this with Minister Kamp. There are provisions for this in the context of the top sectors. Of course, I would indicate the cover if it had to come from somewhere else. We know how this place works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u294	Within the existing frameworks. That must be a comforting thought. Let me summarize this: the motion in part No. 152 is Judgment Room. We're getting to the motion in part No. 153.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u295	That motion, too, is judgment room. CO-neutrality is my goal and I want to investigate, because that is how I explain that motion, whether there is a possibility to lay this down in the Regional Planning Act or in the Environment Act. We will then do so in consultation with the municipalities, and that is important. We're not gonna overrule our local drivers, but we can just put this on the agenda in the conversation we have with them. I work very well with them. That is how I explain this motion and I will tell the Chamber what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u296	The motion in part No. 153 is Judgment Room. Finally, the motion in part No. 154.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u297	Those are the cleantech campuses. I should also like to conclude with my colleague from OCW, but I can tell you that the cabinet itself is very much in favour of innovation, including in the field of energy transition, as I said to Mrs Mulder. Of course, it is up to the educational institutions themselves to take this up, but I think it is possible to encourage it from the cabinet. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u298	Subject to the exegesis, the motion is in part No. 154 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u299	Then one final comment. Mr Dijkstra asked a question about the marketing of expertise. That is very useful and very promising. Of course, it is already happening in many areas. He called it water. I can also mention agriculture, where we have already done a good job with climate-smart agriculture. I shall come back to that again very shortly, because the possibilities are great. Let us hold on to that, I very much agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-19-tweedekamer-17.u300	That brings us to the end of the second term. Thank you all for your input or contribution. interest and support. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
