ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. There are positive developments in the port of Rotterdam. I read in De Telegraaf on Sunday that port companies, private companies and the government have joined forces in a private-public partnership. Port companies, customs, Public Prosecutor's Office and police are working on tackling smugglers and corrupt port workers, because unfortunately, there are also those. Nevertheless, I have a few questions for the Minister, not so much about the port of Rotterdam as about the effects it might have on other ports, because the port of Rotterdam is not our only seaport. A click line is now being started where port employees can report. To what extent does a similar click line exist for the other ports? I am thinking of Vlissingen, Terneuzen, Eemshaven and Amsterdam. If that click line is not there, does the Minister see a driving role for himself to achieve it, so that people who may be confronted with colleagues who are corrupt can report it? Then we can stop that contraband from entering the country. Are there any figures available on how much contraband enters our country every year through ports? I find that very interesting, because if you know that, you can make policies to steer it. Moreover, as a result of special operations in one port, you can avoid a kind of waterbed effect towards the other port. Finally, I wonder whether there are sufficient criminal law options to deal with those employees who are wrong. I await with interest the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Oosten, who gives me the opportunity to pay attention to the programme launched yesterday by the Rotterdam Mayor Aboutaleb, namely the Rotterdam Haven, Safe Haven programme. This campaign is part of the long-standing Integer Haven programme, in which public and private parties work together to prevent organised drug crime, but also other forms of crime from the port of Rotterdam. This is a collaboration between the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Maritime Port Police, the Customs and the Municipality of Rotterdam, but also between the Port of Rotterdam, the container company RWG and the shipping company P&O Ferries, as Mr Van Oosten rightly points out. That campaign is a Meld Crime Anonymous campaign. This is specifically aimed at the Rotterdam port staff and truck drivers. The number available is the number of Report Crime Anonymous. Behind that number are people who understand ports in general and specifically of the Rotterdam port and who are able to speak to people who want to make notifications in a good way. This also applies, of course, to people from other ports in the Netherlands. In that sense, Meld Crime Anonymous is available. There are people who are behind it, who have been trained for this, but no such campaign has yet been launched in those other ports. I will pay a working visit to the port of Vlissingen myself tomorrow. I will then ask whether there could be such a need there. It is then typically something that can be picked up in the local context. Mr Van Oosten then asked if there were any figures available. Yeah, we got numbers of what we get. I suggest that I inform the Chamber separately as soon as we have the complete picture of the Dutch ports. Of course, we know how many kilos of cocaine we stop every year in the port of Rotterdam. Of course, we don't know how much we can't stop. Mr Van Oosten will understand that I cannot inform the Chamber about this. A good example is that last Friday there were 48 packets of cocaine caught, all in all 55 kilos, on the outside of a ship. Customs took a successful action with her diving team there. In conclusion, I can confirm that there are sufficient criminal sanctions to adequately punish corrupt employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	Of course, I'm happy with the latter. I am also pleased that the Minister will come back to the details of the figures, as far as that can naturally be verified. I think it is very important to continue to follow this issue and to pay attention to it at appropriate times, in general consultation or in a debate in this Chamber. In the end, we are talking about tough hard drugs imported into our country, arms smuggling and sometimes even trafficking in human beings. We all want this to be prevented and addressed. That is why it is so important to focus it not only on the port of Rotterdam, but also on all the other ports. That's what my follow-up question is about. I am aware that the port of Rotterdam has a fixed scanner to look at what is actually in such a container and what is actually carried by such a ship. It will be examined in advance whether the cargo of the ship is eligible at all. I wonder what policy is now in place. As far as I know, the Netherlands knows only one fixed scanner, which is located in Rotterdam. Mobile scanners are also used. That's understandable, because those scans cost a lot of money. How do we prevent criminals and smugglers from carrying out some kind of risk assessment? I mean that in the sense of: hey, that fixed scanner is in Rotterdam and the mobile scanner happens to be in Terneuzen; you know what we're doing, we're going to the Eemshaven. The result is that that contraband will get into our country. Can the Minister comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Of course, we will never be able to prevent the waterbed effect which Mr Van Oosten referred to and which he initially referred to. Suppose we manage to secure all Dutch ports in such a way that criminals, in the risk assessment they undoubtedly make, decide to skip the Netherlands. They will then allow imports to take place via, for example, Antwerp or the German ports or in a different way. The drugs still arrive in the Netherlands. This will always be a fight for police and justice against criminals. For this reason, it is good that we work closely with, for example, the port in Antwerp. We know that cooperation in this area is very important. I propose that I include the specific questions about the scans that are being applied in the letter that I will send to the Chamber. It is perhaps nice to mention the recent figures for 2015. 72 investigations have been conducted by the HARC team. That is not limited to Rotterdam, by the way. Research has also been done at Schiphol Airport. This has resulted in over 9,000 kilos of drugs, of which almost 5,000 kilos of cocaine, as well as nearly 5,000 kilos of marijuana. In January, 17 suspects were brought to justice. That has to do with the port of Rotterdam. The prime suspect was sentenced to 8.5 years in prison. In February, another case involving ten suspects, all linked to the port of Rotterdam, was brought to justice. I will take the specific questions about the scans into account in the letter I promised Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thanks for that. I want to avoid this risk assessment on the part of smugglers and criminals. We all want to prevent them, because that is no use to us, because they still enter our country through another door. Finally, I am very pleased that the Minister will pay attention to this issue tomorrow during a visit to the port in Vlissingen and that he will inform the staff that they can also report to Meld Crime Anonymous if they are confronted with a colleague who unfortunately is corrupt in life. This is not only true for employees of the Rotterdam harbour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	I very much appreciate that Mr Van Oosten sees that we are doing everything we can to combat this type of crime, and successfully. I will also ask the question put by Mr Van Oosten in Vlissingen. I think it is good to see whether the experiences gained with this action in Rotterdam justify a national roll-out. But the number and the people behind it, who are trained to address this kind of specific problem, are also available for the other ports in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	I'm glad to hear this is all being directed from that one click line. I wonder whether the national roll-out is only about smuggling or also about transit behind customs. Could it also cover other subjects? One of the forms of transit through the port of Rotterdam, which is a thorn in the eye of my group, is trade in whale meat. We are signatories to the Cites Convention, which prohibits trade in a lot of animal species, but whale meat can be transported through the port of Rotterdam. Can employees report it if they encounter it? Or is the whole story that we have just heard only going on for matters coming through the Dutch customs, so within the Dutch territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Report Crime Anonymous is open to all forms of crime, whatever form. Anyone can go there to report anonymously. If anyone would like to report anything in that direction, so can I.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Not long ago I had a fantastic work visit to the seaport police in Rotterdam. There I was told that there was a lack of search dogs and that they had to let a load pass because the dog had to come from the other side of the country. The minister's predecessor even called the unit in question during a debate to see if that problem was tackled. It was. I would like to hear from this minister that he keeps picking up the glove and that he regularly checks with the Zeehaven Police in Rotterdam whether there is still sufficient capacity among the detective dogs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	I remember that in my previous capacity as a member of your Chamber, I also had a very good and special visit to the Zeehaven Police in Rotterdam. Perhaps that was after Mrs Helder's work visit, because I did not get that signal from the seaport police, but I would like to record this glove, bearing in mind the commitment of my predecessor. I will report in the letter on the state of play with regard to the drug dogs. Those are the dogs Mrs. Helder is referring to.
