ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u1	We are doing the first term on the side of the Chamber today. Twelve speakers have signed up. There has been quite a lot of speaking time. I have just agreed with the spokesmen that we are trying to conduct the debate to the point. I will see to that; that is also my job. Once again, I welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs, who has been with us for some time now for a number of VOCs and now for the Economic Affairs budget. Mr Verhoeven wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u2	We have often dealt with the Economic Affairs budget in two parts in recent years. That is not the case now. Tonight we are dealing with both the innovation part and the energy part. It is up to the groups to classify it themselves. My request is to ask the Minister whether he can respond on Thursday so that the block of energy does not pass through all the other EZ topics so that we can spend our time properly and be present at the various blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u3	That is a clear proposal. Perhaps the Minister would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u4	I think I can meet Mr Verhoeven. If things work out as I imagine it, I will start with the subject of room for renewal. This concerns innovation policy, top sectors and the digital economy. Then I will deal with entrepreneurship, funding, SMEs and the market organisation. Finally, I will deal with future-proof energy supply. I believe that that is the order that Mr Verhoeven has in mind, so we could then agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u5	I note that Mr Verhoeven can live with that. The same applies to the other spokesmen present in this debate. Then we're gonna do it this way. As I said, there are 12 speakers. Everyone has different speaking times. I will always tell them for the people in the public gallery and at home. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP Group. He has ten minutes' speaking time in the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u6	Mr. Chairman. It's always special to get started. This is the last budget debate of this Minister. Of course, you should always wait and see, because when another crisis breaks out at the VVD, a limousine drives to Twente to pick him up, I think. So let me not take an advance on his last budget debate. I'll start with what Mrs Gesthuizen would say here. She just landed on a flight from Ethiopia. So you have to imagine that Mrs Gesthuizen is standing here now. That requires a little bit of your imagination, but I'm still asking. Assuming that this would be his last budget discussion, I would like to ask the Minister if he could give us a look at 2050, if we are to be CO-neutral. Then what is the state of the Dutch economy? How do we make our money? Are we still an exporting country or are we spending more money in the country? Have we switched from goods to services? Have we switched from raw materials to a circular economy? How does the Minister see that? Is there still enough employment? Are we on the right track with education and training? I would ask him to share that with us if he feels like it. A budget debate such as this is also suitable for this. Of course, we often talk about all kinds of things, which are part of the big picture, but we do not try to indicate the coherence. However, I have to get back to 'things', because that is what budgetary treatment is all about. First of all, I would like to say something about the SME scheme. My colleague Mr Gesthuizen and I have read in the budget that the Minister is releasing money to co-finance start-ups. We agree with that, but at the same time he also decides to increase the premium for the SME scheme, which, in our view, works well and has worked well. This makes it easier for companies to borrow from the bank via a public guarantee. This premium increase is still the highest for innovative companies. The Minister wants to support innovation through co-financing through start-ups, but on the other hand he allows them to pay a higher premium for a guarantee on a bank loan. We think that this is rather illogical and would like the premium to remain lower, including for ordinary SMEs, so that the economy can continue to grow better. That is why we have tabled an amendment which brings that balance back. The CDA has tabled a similar amendment with slightly different coverage, but we may still be talking about it. Another point is trade protection. What are the trade defence instruments at the moment? I am therefore looking at the European Union and I would like to highlight the steel sector in particular. The interesting thing is that it affects both economic matters and energy. After all, there is a lot of dumped steel coming from China on the European market. One reason is also that the effort to save energy for steel companies is currently hampered by the fact that the international market is uneven. Does the Minister intend to discuss the trade defence instruments within the European Union? Does he intend to take a different position in this than he has done so far? As far as tenders are concerned, we have TenderNed and a website. The minister wants governments to go digitally. That's what the law says. Now it appears that there have been serious restrictions on the TenderNed website since September. That is not a good prospect, because in 2017 all public authorities will have to digitally tender. Can the Minister indicate whether TenderNed is now suitable for government spending? How does he see that if the crowds of digital tenders increase in 2017? Then I come to the power of the supermarkets. In a letter from Ahold, or today Ahold Delhaize, suppliers report that this supermarket wants to pay less retroactively. Now the Netherlands is very good throughout the whole chain, the agricultural and food chain, but that chain must be robust. Within the chain, all parties contributing to it, from farmers to veterinary surgeons, from processors to suppliers, and the supermarkets, which are closest to the consumer, must be in line. Doesn't the Minister consider this to be an abuse of power? Is he prepared to use the ACM for this purpose and to allow the ACM to play a role in complaints about this through a notification window? I don't think the Minister wants that. Although a motion has been adopted on this point, he is not enthusiastic about it. I've seen it before, but I'd like to tell him to take a good look at this. After all, this is not a good thing. We must not let what we have an international name, and what we have reasonably well organized, be put under pressure by the party that has the most power. I reached a pamphlet of some research institutes that feel that they are falling through the ice when it comes to public funding of the knowledge infrastructure. That includes Wageningen's research. However, I am a little reluctant to do so, because I myself have worked there for a long time. But it is also about Deltares, the NLR and MARIN, for example, who feel that their legal tasks, their basic public tasks, are being reduced by the decline in public funding, which has been going on for a number of years. I come to the theme of energy. I have a number of questions about this. It has surprised everyone that we suddenly seem to be meeting the CO emissions target quickly. How does the Minister feel about this? Doesn't this mean that you shouldn't actually work with percentages, but with absolute numbers? I get the impression that the situation was too positive in 1990 and too negative in 2020. As a result, we are suddenly getting to what we are talking about here every month, about which Urgenda has started a trial and for which we are making all kinds of proposals to make it. With a simple push on the percentage button, you suddenly find yourself in a completely different situation. A few years ago, we had the same thing with the BP. Then we had calculated this differently, and Eurostat added a little bit to that. A very spicy discussion is then suddenly in a very different light. We have recently discussed the SDE+ scheme, the promotion of renewable energy production, in a general discussion. What is the future of SDE+ for the Minister, both in terms of form and content? This tax is a bit ex-Millions note, but it is going to rise to around €300 per household over a number of years. The bakery goes to about €1,000. With €300, you have own risk amounts. That's a nice amount for a household that's already struggling to make ends meet. How does the Minister see this, also in the light of, for example, a climate law that is being discussed here? Could you not set up a climate law+, a climate fund and a climate coordinator, such as the Delta Act and Delta Fund model? Now mitigation is a more difficult process than adaptation, but I do see the parallel. How does the Minister feel about that? We have talked about the content many times. Biomass is not sustainable enough for me. I don't want to repeat that discussion, but we haven't figured it out yet and we don't agree on it either. I am very curious to see how we can give this a role in renewable energy policy in the future. At least this includes forest management which is not the same as the forest management that we are now linking to biomass, because the forest simply cannot cope with the extra CO. A lot of forest has grown. There are far too few young plantings. I have to think about the proposal made this week to forest a quarter of the Netherlands. There are other ways. You can keep the peat meadows wet; that also saves a lot of CO. I would like to have a view of this from the Minister. Energy saving. I hear the audits aren't going well everywhere. With the MEE companies it is a bit more clear than with the MJA3 companies. I'm sorry about the abbreviations, but I don't know exactly how you say that in full; maybe the Griffin can still play a role in that. What's it gonna look like after 2020? The Minister said in general consultation that he wanted to make savings compulsory because the savings, especially for large companies, are not going fast enough. I'm very curious to know what that compelling character is. What's that gonna look like? How is it discussed with the companies? Where's the profit? I've been visiting some big companies over the fall. They want to, but they also say that the low-hanging fruit has now been picked and that it is becoming increasingly difficult to save 1.5% a year. Those are, of course, their sounds, but I would like to hear from the Minister how he thinks we can make it. I dot a few things quickly, because I see that my time is almost up. On page 179 of the National Energy Exploratory, I am pleased to read that employment in the sustainable sector is relatively high compared to the fossil sector. I'm sure the Minister saw that, too. Can it be traced back to training or to certain aspects of employment development in the sustainable sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u7	Mr Smaling just referred to energy saving in heavy industry. He said that the low-hanging fruit might have been picked and that it would be more difficult, but does the SP think that the large industry should also contribute to achieving the energy saving objectives? Is it an open question to the Minister or does the SP ask how he is going to make the savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u8	No, I absolutely think it should be done, but many companies have a kind of rhythm in which they evaluate and renew part of their establishment once every few years. That also gives a bit of strange peaks in the energy savings results. It just has to happen, but when you visit those companies, you see that other things also play a role. Such a steel company, for example, is also opposed to a merger and employment is under pressure. I am trying to link employment to the transition that companies have to make; that is why I mentioned this. I admit immediately that some companies say that recycled steel is only on the agenda at the end of this century. I think we should also have the talk about this. Do we want to keep that waiting for so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u9	Of course, employment is very important. We have no interest in just moving jobs. But I am glad that the SP also says that the companies must deliver the 9 petajoule they have promised. Ideally, they do so with energy savings, because they earn themselves back. At least now it's clear where the SP is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u10	Mr. Chairman. I have a few more things, first of all, consumer issues. Can the connection obligation for new construction be removed? The Minister wants to offer experimental space for this, but we believe that this can be done in the law right away. How does the Minister see it in the future if municipalities no longer want to replace the old gas networks because they want to switch to full electric or to a heat grid? There has just been a small debate on DELTA in the context of nuclear energy. However, I would like to comment on the Minister's appeal to DELTA to withdraw a case relating to the division. I have raised my eyebrows high about this, because I find it quite a lot that a minister would ask such a company to withdraw a lawsuit. How does the Minister see this in relation to the future of DELTA, which was discussed in the debate on this subject? A public utility company is fine, but should the shareholder then buy the company he already owns? That sounds a little weird to me, too. The Minister does not need to repeat everything he mentioned in the debate before this, but I am not getting out entirely. Two words left about Groningen. I am curious to see the legal anchoring of the role of the National Coordinator Groningen. In the letter sent by the Minister following the previous debate, I have not been able to find out how he is going to fill it out. What happens now outside the contour? I see surveys of Witteveen+Bos in which a series of questions are asked directly to residents. Is that the route to meeting the people who have suffered damage? Finally, there are small businesses and shops where, for example, you can dust. As an example, I would like to mention a small company opposite the place in Loppersum where the national coordinator has currently moved in. Such companies can do a lot in those buildings that are reinforced and in swap houses. This also allows the local companies to benefit from the current activity that is related to the earthquakes. Is that legal? Does the Minister see a way of involving companies in the region more closely in the things that are happening in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Smaling. You have exceeded your speaking time for a minute. I think you've seen it for yourself. If the spokesmen appreciate that, I'd like to say it all the time. Otherwise, I assume they're reading the clock themselves. The time which they exceed the speaking time is reduced to the second time limit. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Ziengs. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group. He has no less than twenty minutes of speaking time in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u12	Mr. Chairman. Among other things, the butcher, the baker, the vegetable farmer, the retailer, but also larger employers: they are all entrepreneurs who have fought in recent years to keep their business going. The crisis has hit them hard. The crisis also gave rise to a great deal of uncertainty. I've been an entrepreneur myself once, so I get that that gave uncertainty. Entrepreneurs have shown real courage and perseverance. From this point on, I would like to stress that they have played a very important role in the recovery that has finally taken place. It's an early recovery, but the road upstairs has been found again. Consumer confidence improves step by step. The number of jobs is increasing. Business results are gradually improving. Improvement in companies means jobs. And we also see these jobs coming step by step. That's fantastic. The growth of the economy, the growth of businesses and the growth within companies must be rewarded with space for the entrepreneur. Despite all the good results and figures that are rising, there are still important steps to be taken for entrepreneurs, steps to remove barriers and make it easy for entrepreneurs. The international lists on which the Netherlands boasts are a recurring subject. If we're lower, the policy sucks. If we stand higher, those pessimistic speakers will remain silent. It never seems to be good, but the fact is that the Dutch economy is the most competitive in the whole of the European Union. Only Switzerland, Singapore and the United States are higher. We should celebrate! And we need to make sure we get even higher on those lists. That's still a big job. It's a job we're working on together, with results. The number of bankruptcies has fallen, the number of start-ups growing to a profitable business. And trust among entrepreneurs is also growing. And this is done thanks to, and not in spite of, the policies of recent years aimed at restoring the economy. The business community has taken up the gauntlet well by working closely together. Cooperation has led to success. Knowledge institutions, universities, colleges, large companies, governments and SMEs were able to find each other. Working together proved to be the key to innovation and therefore to growth, and thus to jobs. The MIT scheme encourages entrepreneurs to take this cooperation to a higher level. In the meantime, provinces have also discovered this scheme as a means of creating jobs. They also contribute financially to this. I welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u13	I hear Mr Ziegs making a warm plea for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. I assume Mr Ziegs is equally enthusiastic about social entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. Now an investigation has been done by the Thomson Reuters Foundation. This shows that the Netherlands is not in a good place on a ranking for social entrepreneurs. The Netherlands is only ranked 25 on the ranking of most attractive countries for social entrepreneurs. So there are 24 countries in the OECD that are doing better for social entrepreneurs. Doesn't the VVD, along with GroenLinks, think that we should also have the ambitions to get on that ranking much higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u14	Everything in life is about definitions. The debate on social entrepreneurs has been held on a number of occasions, including in various committees. The VVD always takes the view that any entrepreneur who wants to solve a social problem is in fact a social entrepreneur. In recent years, we have faced enormous unemployment. In fact, any entrepreneur who hires or employs a person is already a social entrepreneur. The research mentioned by Mrs Van Tongeren is fine, but let us first ensure that we have a unanimous definition within all those countries. I don't think that's the case yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u15	You can also define a problem, but of course a very clear definition has been used in this study. A normal company is in principle aimed at increasing the value of the shareholders' shares. This is also stated in company law and in the Code Tabaksblat, which today is called the Code Frijns. There are also companies that are focused on solving a social problem or creating work for a target group that will not be able to work otherwise. Outside countries have a definition of this; that definition exists. My question was whether, in addition to the ambition it has shown for ordinary companies, the VVD also has the ambition to achieve higher levels of social enterprise within the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u16	Mrs Van Tongeren talks about companies whose aim is to increase their shares in value. However, I am talking about the butcher, the baker, the vegetable farmer and the retailer, so small entrepreneurs. They have no shares at all, but they do put a billboard on the football field in the village, allowing the football club to keep the price of club membership low. That too is social enterprise. They are also social entrepreneurs. That's what the VVD stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u17	I'm going from social entrepreneurship to small entrepreneurship. Mr Ziengs has made a fantastic plea for the vegetable farmer and the butcher, but in recent years the VVD has not really helped the vegetable farmer and the butcher. I would like to draw your attention to another list, namely that of lending. I note that we treat small businesses the worst of all countries in the euro area when it comes to granting loans. We are doing even worse than Greece. The VVD gives nice images for the big entrepreneurs, but what has it done to help the small businessman, the butcher and the vegetable farmer, whose VVD now wants to get the votes, in terms of credit?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u18	In the debates we have had on appropriations, we have always been very clear. For example, I refer to Qredits, a lender who focuses on the provision of smaller loans. That ceiling's been raised. The CDA and PvdA credit unions have put forward a legislative proposal on this issue to ensure that these appropriations were also made available. There are also opportunities for crowdfunding. In short, a variety of systems have been introduced or put on the table throughout the whole range of loans to enable them to be provided. The good thing is that we are now seeing that the banks are also a little more accommodating for the smaller companies. Moreover, we have always stressed in the debates that we should not only focus on banks when it comes to lending, but also on how we can ultimately generate wider loans. I think the cabinet has succeeded very well. Certainly in recent years we have seen that there are much more possibilities in terms of appropriations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u19	We know the defense line of the VVD. She comes up with crowdfunding and a number of other options. However, this has helped only a few percent of entrepreneurs. Only a few percent of entrepreneurs were able to obtain a credit in this way. In Germany, Belgium, France and England, entrepreneurs get credits to grow and thrive and create jobs in this way, but when I look at the policy pursued by the VVD together with the PvdA, PvdA's too, I note that, unfortunately, this has not been done. Despite all the small measures mentioned, which are peanuts for the big picture, this has not been achieved. Does Mr Ziegs agree with me that the VVD and the PvdA have not addressed the banks in recent times, whereas we believe they are responsible for not lending SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u20	I think it is so good that I was with this colleague not so long ago when he defended the position of the Labour Party in order to create a good climate for small entrepreneurs. I hear Mr Öztürk say that alternative funding is still small, but we are seeing an increasing trend. Often it also has to do with submitting good plans. Often it starts small, but in recent years the ceiling of Qredits has been raised, and credit unions and other forms of financing have emerged. Eventually it grows and you see that the banks pick it up by stacking. If there is now a funding application, the entrepreneur can make use of several possibilities that are linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u21	Mr Ziengs is now a little warmed up. So I will confront him with his own election programme. I'll take page 41, "Entrepreneurship and Innovation." In the first block there is a very good sentence: "We want to invest more in innovation." Mr Ziengs was just talking about those lists. These are, of course, based on past investments, so it is very good that the VVD realizes that we must also invest in the future. However, two sentences later say: "we continue to look closely at whether the policy needs to be complemented or expanded and whether additional investment is needed." Does the VVD want to invest extra or is it going to see if it wants to invest extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u22	It is good that Mr Verhoeven quotes from the draft election programme of the VVD. He forgot to mention that it's a concept. It can still be amended and so on. For the General Assembly of the VVD, I think it is a good idea to see if it makes sense what it says. However, I have read it in such a way that the VVD is always committed to innovation. We also know that it is necessary for the future to give innovative developments time and resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u23	The VVD has cut back on innovation and research over the last two Cabinets, so over the last seven years. Under Rutte I there has been considerable cuts in the innovation budget and under Rutte II there has been some sort of accounting trick used to say on television that no savings have been made. However, compared to the growing gross domestic product, there has not been much money at all. Schraalhans has been a kitchen manager for the past seven years. The VVD says it wants to invest now, but how much does it want to invest? Is that 1 million, is that 50 million, or is it, as D66 says, 1 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u24	Of course, it's very easy to magic with all sorts of numbers. What matters, however, is that the last few years have been a pain in the ass for the entrepreneurs who, of course, have also felt the crisis. Under Rutte I and II, we had to cut back together in order to get things back to normal. As we gradually rise from that valley, for which everyone has taken responsibility, we must also use the available opportunities for innovation and for investment in innovation. However, it seems premature to start throwing amounts in advance. The Minister does not opt for a structural increase in the MIT budget. As a result, after the amendment tabled in 2014 by the VVD and the Labour Party, it seems as if there is a decline, while the scheme is heavily overwritten every year. Why has the Minister not been able to increase the MIT regime structurally? Does the Minister still see opportunities to increase this budget to the level of 2016? With this we really help entrepreneurs; we also meet the provinces. For the IPC scheme, we have tabled an amendment. In 2017, there is no budget for the InnovationPerformanceContracts on the budget of EZ. The scheme was financed by an earlier Van Veen/Jan Vos amendment. The IPC scheme is of added value for SMEs. Where the MIT scheme focuses primarily on the frontrunners in the top sectors, the IPC scheme focuses on the more technology-enhancing SMEs. The scheme makes it possible to stimulate innovation in sectors other than the top sectors. By means of this amendment, the VVD intends to allocate a budget for 2017. That is, once again, a real solution for entrepreneurs. I am now talking about top sector policy. The applied research institutions now operate on lower budgets on market terms. However, not all of these institutions have the opportunity to join the top sectors policy. Here the unique knowledge position of the TO2 institutions, i.e. TNO and the major technological institutes, is put under pressure. The VVD has asked more often about the possibilities of making large capital investments. For a long time we thought that the future fund would be the solution. This fund would be filled with the surplus of gas income. Selling the skin before the bear is shot is always a risk. That's what we're seeing now. There's no surplus. What is the status of the Future Fund? Could it be revolver? And, more importantly, what does the Minister of the Future Fund think and what room is there for the Chamber to support the TO2 institutions with money from this fund? Innovation policy is becoming increasingly effective. More critical consideration is being given to the real benefits of innovations in the economic and social fields. Internationally, this policy is referred to as an example. It has become clear from the round table with the parties that there is no waiting for new policies to be devised. However, it is wise to name social issues more firmly, in order to better link the different top sectors. The VVD supports that choice. I'll come to the arrangements. The Minister is currently guaranteeing entrepreneurs 5 billion by means of several regulations. During the crisis, the Minister put up the funds for this. This is a recognition of the problems that arose in financing the plans of entrepreneurs. The VVD believes that innovative SMEs should be helped if banks do not dare to lend credit. How does the Minister think that banks will be more able to take responsibility for this lending? In view of the Basel IV measures announced, how does the Minister envisage that banks will simplify their lending? Last year the VVD asked a lot of questions about the cabinet's DVI activities. The government's letters do not show that there is a market failure. I have a number of questions for the Minister on this. Is it true that the DVI, the Dutch Venture Initiative, or in Dutch "investment capital initiative," also invests in non-Dutch companies? Is it true that the DVI pays dividends to investors outside the Netherlands? Is it true that there is an interest in private equity funds to take over the government's DVI? It seems to us that $220 million will be released. Can the Minister state if this is correct? As MPs, we have almost all been guests of Brainport Eindhoven. What has been achieved there in a number of years can be called unprecedented. In addition to the Rotterdam harbour and Schiphol, this is a mainport for the Netherlands. Whether it's the high-tech campus in Eindhoven, the automotive campus in Helmond or ASML and Philips: Eindhoven has been named the smartest region in the world for a reason. We'd like to keep it that way. We have received concerns from the region in response to the Minister's letter. There is no discussion at the VVD: in Eindhoven we earn our money, just like in Rotterdam, Amsterdam or many other regions, such as Gelderland and Drenthe. In the round table on the top sectors, it became clear that this awareness has not yet reached The Hague. The Eindhoven region must be a good location. What else is needed to strengthen the competitiveness of this region? What's left behind? What else does it take? What possibilities does the Minister see for giving greater freedom of experimentation in the area of regulation? From the Minister's letter of 6 July. It appears that these possibilities exist, but that is little concrete. What is the Minister really going to do? In our contacts with companies we get many signals that entrepreneurs experience certain rules as compelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u25	I very much welcome the warm speech of the VVD Group for the Eindhoven region. There is an advice from the Rli (Council for the Environment and Infrastructure) to give the Brainport Eindhoven a national status, just like the port of Rotterdam and the airport Schiphol. The Minister of I and M, Mrs Schultz, said that I am wrong about that. How does the VVD feel about that? If the VVD likes a story like today's about the regional economy and its importance, does it agree with that? Or does she say, well, we don't care about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u26	In my speech I already mentioned how important we as a VVD consider it to be that this region is also being named and that we are actually talking about a'mainport' and not just a 'brainport'. We in the VVD therefore consider this important. I too am familiar with the letter from I and M. That doesn't exactly make that very clear. I also discussed this with my colleague, the spokesperson on I and M. It will certainly come back to this during the budget debate of I and M.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u27	I'm very happy to hear this. I also discussed it with the spokesperson I and M. In this case, I am. We are also going to table a motion next week, because we think it is important that this happens. There's a report with important advice. I trust the support of the VVD Group, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u28	I think it would be good if Mrs Mulder had a cup of coffee with my colleague Barbara Visser. I have just spoken about the contacts with the companies. We get a lot of signals that entrepreneurs experience certain rules as compelling. They also refer to each other as counter-participants. The Rijksdienst voor het Wegverkeringen delayed the introduction of an electric tractor for months, because he had no inspection possibilities for electric brakes. The environmental service in Gelderland was not aware of a closed green deal. Azzp'er could not arrange the necessary CE certification for his medical apps, because in his case he had to guarantee 1 million euros as one man's business. During the AO on business policy, my colleague Michiel van Veen indicated that the time between the reporting of a pinching rule and a minister using his power to resolve it should be shortened. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that entrepreneurs who bring innovations to the market with the support of the government need to be helped quickly and personally by tight regulations and that this experimental space should be able to be provided quickly? Is the Minister prepared to link a programme manager through the RVO to entrepreneurs who have launched government-driven innovation projects? The loans seem to be getting back on track. Yet we hear that banks fear Basel IV. This would put further pressure on the granting of appropriations. SMEs would once again encounter a barrier to the application for credit. Does the Minister recognize this signal? Does he think this is real? If so, what is the Minister going to do about this? During the negotiations between the countries and the European Parliament, proposals are often adjusted so strongly that the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, is unclear. In our draft election programme, we advocate as a VVD an independent supervisor who continuously identifies the consequences of these changes before they are adopted. Can the Minister translate this wish into real action towards Brussels? Last year, my colleague Mr Bosman, in the budget debate, specifically called for attention to be paid to the hospitality economy. This activity grows year in, year out. An ov-tourist map, which has been realized thanks to the pressure of the Ministry, is a means to better spread tourists across our beautiful country. The NBTC was provided last year with an amount to map and streamline the influx from Asian markets, so that the pressure on popular places decreases and tourism spreads better across the Netherlands. The NBTC has launched a project for this purpose, the so-called "Asia offensive," which describes an objective and can be covered by co-financing. Inherent to the Bosman motion adopted, a project contribution would be a solution for the NBTC. Where does the Minister see opportunities to further support this plan? The Minister expected to have the announced arrangement for the Smart Industry Fieldlabs ready by the summer. I would like to hear what is going on here. The VVD considers the maritime sector very important for the international competitiveness of the Netherlands as a trading nation. There will be an evaluation of the institutions for applied research, e.g. TNO and MARIN. When can we look forward to developing a strategic agenda for research facilities TO2? What about cross-over links between the top sectors of energy and water? One final point that we are concerned about is the digital agenda. In the budget, the ambition is to get the Netherlands in the top five of the most competitive knowledge-based economies in the world. The VVD wholeheartedly supports this ambition and sees an important peripheral role for ICT. ICT has accounted for one third of GDP growth over the past 25 years and ICT has changed its role. ICT is no longer just the supporting process of business management. It is also the primary process of entire industries, such as cable companies, website developers and data centers. These companies allow the Netherlands to continue to lead the digital markets in the Netherlands and Europe. SMEs can make even better use of these opportunities. While 76% of consumers sometimes buy something online, only 17% of companies offer their products online. If we are to maintain our leading role in Europe, we need to ensure that the conditions of internet speed, data capacity and digitalisation are in order for businesses. What does the Minister's long-term agenda look like in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u29	That is a natural moment for an interruption by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u30	I was quietly waiting until the end of Mr Zieng's speech, and I thought we were close by.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u31	Yes, the end is near.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u32	So I'm just gonna wait until he finishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u33	Seven more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u34	Then I'm gonna sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u35	I meant to say that I have seven minutes left. But I'm at my last piece of paper. Our future prosperity will increasingly depend on our capacity to innovate and create new jobs. Innovation and technological developments are becoming essential to maintain our good facilities and to keep them accessible to everyone. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is where the focus lies. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u36	If it takes you seven minutes to read that last piece of paper, it deserves a compliment. This Minister will go down in history as the Minister of the Energy Agreement and the Gas Decision. This is a budget debate, and the biggest items in that budget are energy and gas; so does Mr Ziengs. I therefore find it extremely strange that the VVD does not have any comment, question, suggestion or clarification, or even compliments the Minister on that part of the budget. I would therefore like to give Mr Ziengs the opportunity to do so. Next, I have a financial and substantive question for the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u37	It's always nice that when you do your input for a budget treatment, you know about who's going to walk to the interrupting microphone. That certainly applies to the issue of energy. As spokesperson for Economic Affairs, we have expressly chosen to go now for entrepreneurs and for the innovation portfolio. That has also been highlighted by my contribution. In the last year there were weekly debates on energy, and in procedural meetings there was almost all the time talk about the energy portfolio and the items that had to be put on the agenda every time. We think that's very important, too. We also believe that at least this Minister has ensured that this item remains firmly on the agenda. He appeared every time to clarify that. If Mrs Van Tongeren thinks that the Minister deserves compliments on my behalf, I will gladly pass them on. In any case, the VVD believes that the Minister has meant a great deal in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u38	Once again, this is not an AO Business but a budget treatment. I am therefore asking about the storage of renewable energy (ODE) on the energy account, where, due to the exchange rate problem in departments outside EZ, some 60 million has been shifted. I know the VVD as a party that stands for sound financial policy. I would like to know how the VVD views this and why it is not asking any questions. Or does the VVD find such a cash slide to 2022 or 2023 just standard wise financial policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u39	I have just indicated that the VVD really made the choice for the entrepreneur when it comes to budgetary treatment. This entrepreneur has done everything in recent years to get us out of the crisis. I have also indicated that several debates have already been held on energy and that they are going to be held. With regard to the question of whether this Minister's funding is sound, we can only conclude that he is at least able to make progress on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u40	The VVD wants to spawn the entrepreneurs today and say a lot of beautiful words about them. That is very good, because that can also help entrepreneurs. But we achieve sounds that, in particular, a lot of start-ups with ethnic backgrounds are profiled ethnically. As a result, they receive fewer contracts and are not eligible for certain tenders. Do those sounds reach the VVD? I asked Parliamentary questions about this to this VVD Minister, but he really did not respond positively. I want to know if the sounds about the ethnic profile of entrepreneurs also end up in the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u41	I can answer that briefly and forcefully. An entrepreneur is an entrepreneur and as far as the VVD is concerned that has nothing to do with his ethnic background. Mr Öztürk was also involved in the treatment of the Procurement Act. We have included all kinds of things, with the aim that any entrepreneur who wants to participate can also participate, for example in a call for tenders. That has nothing to do with his ethnic background. These sounds are not known to me and if they were known to me, I would certainly find something of them. Then I would like to throw that far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u42	An entrepreneur is an entrepreneur. A worker is a worker and there is discrimination in the labour market. That was denied for years, also by the VVD, but was later confirmed by investigations. Ethnic profiling with the police has also been denied for years, but that too was later confirmed by investigations. When people send a quote to a company instead of a resume because they are now zzp'er or have a business, they are ethnically profiled. I cannot imagine that the VVD, which calls itself an entrepreneurial party, has not heard those sounds. I would ask Mr Ziengs if he is prepared to table a motion with me to have that investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u43	I have already indicated in my first reply that these sounds are not known to me. In fact, I haven't been approached about it either. However, it is a matter of urgency, and I have said this every time in my speech that the VVD stands up for all entrepreneurs, big or small. Entrepreneurs running a business for their own account and risk. Entrepreneurs who, in the end, have also helped to bring this country out of the crisis. It really is about all the entrepreneurs. We may want to investigate everything, but I'd say come first with the real signals. We can investigate everything, but the signals are simply not known to me. I think I have made my position very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u44	I have also listened with admiration and interest to Mr Ziengs' speech. I have a question about the top sectors. Mr Ziengs spoke a fine sentence. He said: we want to go on with the top sectors; we do not want new policies, but we do need to give them a better place in the top sectors. That sounds like D66 to the ears. But how does Mr Ziengs see that? We've been having some sort of semantic discussion about that in the House of Representatives for a couple of years. The top sectors are nine industries. These social themes are broader than sectors of activity. These are themes such as climate, care and digitalisation. How does the VVD intend to bring these social issues into the top sectors policy? That's the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u45	My first answer is that I am surprised that Mr Verhoeven suddenly seems to be an advocate of top sector policy. Mr Verhoeven probably understands that, because I have rarely heard him say anything positive about this in the past during debates. But I'll answer his question. Over the past few years, we have been very guided by the involvement of SMEs in the top sectors. At first we thought this was going to be very difficult, but we have seen that this has been getting better in recent years. The social issues, where you can ultimately achieve this coherence, must be brought to the fore in the top sectors. In my speech I indicated that in the top sectors you will eventually get an optimum degree of cooperation from the top sectors through cooperation on these themes, which can be identified together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u46	My hope is now a little less, because I hear words like 'cooperation' and 'cross-sectoral' and that sort of thing. D66 wants to stop the top sectors. We want to dismantle those nine industries. The same way of working, namely that working together, and the private money that we have drawn from the market for research, we want to focus on four societal themes. That's very concrete. Then you change from nine industries to four social themes. Is that something that appeals to the VVD? Then, while preserving the good of the top sectors, we can make sure that the less good of the top sectors are taken away. Or does the VVD want to continue with exactly the same thing, while only here and there it is called "social themes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u47	This is kind of special. A round table has been organised on the top sectors. That is where D66 was missing, in the person of Mr Verhoeven. He could have heard that this wish came from the top sectors themselves. He could also have heard that there is a lot of unrest when you first rig something up and throw it over again a few years later. Now we see that it's turning and getting better and better. So let it become a full product instead of reorganising it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u48	I would like to say something very briefly, because I was addressed to my absence. We have a fraction of 12 people with small portfolios. In the forthcoming elections, we are going to change that. Mr Ziengs doesn't know why I wasn't there, so I think it's a little uncollective of him to say that. I have a quick question. It's very simple. We've been discussing the top sectors for years. For years there has been a feeling among scientists, industry, many advisory bodies, but also in the House of Representatives that something needs to change in those old-fashioned domestic industries that are leading. So does the VVD. Does the VVD dare to take the step and say that we are really going to decorate it so that it becomes successful? Or does the VVD say: we pretend, but we actually continue with the same policy and fool everyone who does have an improvement in mind? If we're gonna make it that sharp, we need to be very clear to each other, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u49	This is a statement by Mr Verhoeven of a contribution in my speech which does not reflect that contribution in my speech. So I cannot answer that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u50	I'll try it one more time with Mr Ziengs of the VVD. I have a question that has nothing to do with energy or gas. This concerns the EZ Framework Decision. I'm sure he's familiar with that. That Framework Decision states that all expenditure incurred by EZ should contribute to aspects of sustainability. I would like to know from my colleague Mr Ziengs how he feels that the implementation of that framework decision is progressing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u51	That's a very good question. It can be seen that I am very busy trying to come up with an answer. My answer would then be straight away, so from my toes: that goes well. But I think Mrs Van Tongeren would like to have some further explanation from me as to why things are going well. That's what I imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u52	I understand that, apart from the energy, climate and gas decision, Mr Ziengs is not familiar with the EZ Framework Decision either. Then it does not make much sense to torment Mr Ziengs further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u54	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is pursuing a fair economy. For that, we need a very strong society. Unfortunately, in the current economy, we see poor payment behaviour, from large companies but also too many governments, injustice, unfair distribution of the lusts and burdens of gas extraction in Groningen, purchasing power from supermarkets, which has meant farmers have been earning around the poverty line for years and paying wages in the event of a disease that is hanging around the necks of small businesses. This means that there is an unnecessary brake on hiring staff. That is unfair for those people who are very anxious to get to work and who are not yet able to participate against will and thanks. We also see obstacles in the construction of high-speed internet in outlying areas. SMEs are also still struggling to obtain credit. In any case, the CDA welcomes the adoption by the Court of Justice of the initiative law on credit unions. The first loans have now been granted. Fast internet is an important prerequisite for the economy and a strong society. The CDA wants residents to be able to put their own hands on the internet quickly in their environment, and that they have to deal with a government that is involved and, if necessary, helps. This is not currently the case in important respects by European state aid rules. As a result, our local authorities are tied up. Many initiatives by residents fail in areas where there is no network yet and where market players have indicated that they will develop plans within three years. State aid rules are very strict in these so-called grey areas. Many people rightly point out that it is very doubtful whether the speed of the Internet as currently seen by Europe in European legislation will be sufficiently rapid in three years' time. Glass fibre speeds are already rising to at least tenfold. Research agency Dialogic and TU Delft have calculated that the average demand of consumers for that faster internet will increase enormously in 2020. In addition, the three-year period is a thorn in the eyes of the CDA. By imposing such stringent requirements, Europe is stagnating the development of sparsely populated areas, while Europe should give more opportunities to those vulnerable regions. Therefore, the simplification of the state aid rules is urgently needed. The CDA feels that it is supported by fellow members who said at the AO Telecoms Council that they are in favour of relaxing the State aid framework for the fast internet. Since May, the Minister has been considering whether the three-year deadline can be shortened. The CDA would appreciate it if the Minister could increase the speed in the Council. Is the Minister prepared to advocate in the EU, together with the other Member States, the relaxation of the state aid rules for grey areas, specifically to shorten the said three-year period by at least one year and also to increase the speed requirement from at least 30 megabits per second to at least 50 megabits per second? The Minister has already spoken very warmly about this, but what action is he going to take to achieve this? The CDA would like the Cabinet to take its own policy seriously to increase the share of investment in Research and Development to 2.5% of gross domestic product by 2020. The budget shows that the Netherlands is now performing below the target. The Minister has already admitted this in previous meetings. We would like the Minister to draw up an action plan with the cabinet which states how the cabinet, together with the business community, is really going to ensure that 2.5% is achieved. Is the Minister prepared to do so? There is a scheme for many small businesses to further shape innovations. In any case, we think this is positive, as R&D should ultimately lead to this. This is the MIT scheme. Other parties have already said that they would like more money to go to that arrangement. The CDA wants that too, and I have tabled an amendment to that effect. Now I come to the issue of lending to SMEs. It's gonna keep running rough. How does the Minister intend to tackle this problem in a structural manner? The CDA doesn't think it's gonna help if the SME scheme gets out of hand. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this point. It is nice that the SP also calls attention to this arrangement. If necessary, we must, of course, see how we can get out of this together. But first, I'm curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u55	Mrs. Mulder, I'm interrupting. We will reset time, because something has gone wrong with the setting of time. That's what we're gonna do now, because you're entitled to the time you've been assigned. Let me say this, so that you do not panic when all kinds of other times appear. So that's what we're doing right now. You will see that appear on your panel. So, now we're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u56	It's a kind of magic, let's just say. The Minister can show that he sees opportunities for innovation in the energy transition if he manages to connect the two in a good way. The Netherlands will invest heavily in wind at sea in the coming years. On this point, the CDA calls on the Minister to pay attention to the logistics, the use of our Dutch ports and the employment on shore. Is there a top team, for example, that is going to lead this in the right direction? Or does the Minister do that in another way? We'd like to hear that from him. We hear from entrepreneurs that the Netherlands is selling itself out of the market. Then we are talking very specifically about the port. This is already the case in the agricultural sector. My colleague Jacco Geurts is constantly drawing attention to this. For example, you can think of the establishment of logistics at customs. Our ports are under pressure due to the lack of a level playing field with abroad, while smart logistics could lead us. And then, of course, we have the international excellent region of Eindhoven. My colleagues from the VVD have already mentioned this. After the advice of the Rli (Council for the Environment and Infrastructure) to give Brainport Eindhoven as a region also a national status, like the port of Rotterdam and the airport Schiphol, you think: that's what the cabinet will do! But to our great surprise, the cabinet says: we do not! Why not? This is precisely what is very good for economic policy. This fits in very well. We are talking about the manufacturing industry. The aerospace sector has always had our warmest attention. The previous Minister, Minister Verhagen, made an extra effort at the end of his period, because there were difficulties on the horizon. Our question to the Minister is whether we have secured the position of ESA. Will that beautiful institution stay in the Netherlands, so that we have all the effects of it? I would like to talk about successful growers, who are also called scale-ups, such as Catawiki in Assen, a very beautiful, fast growing company, looking for hundreds of additional employees. What does the Minister do about framework conditions for scale-ups, for example by looking at how innovation can be further developed as a launching customer? I know the Minister has a heart for that, but can he outline how he sees those scale-ups? Then the energy transition. The CDA Group wants the Netherlands and the European Union to go for the Paris climate targets; more than 2°C warming in 2050. With the effort for wind at sea, the Netherlands will also take great steps. We want an independent energy mix. When it comes to gas extraction in Groningen, we need to see how the gas plants that run for heat networks on Groningen gas can switch to residual heat or high-caloric gas. We owe it to the Groningers, which the CDA Group fully realizes. When is the Minister coming up with his vision of the gas building? According to the CDA Group, we need to shape the change there. Is that how the Minister sees it? How does the Minister deal with the various studies carried out in Groningen by the university and independent researchers? How are these brought together? We have asked for it a number of times, but we hear that it does not come together. How does the Minister intend to shape that? He has made promises on this. We would like to experience a joint, sustainable transition to renewable energy, but with support. The people in Drenthe and Groningen feel that these windmills are being pushed down their throats. We really shouldn't do that this way anymore. You can't do that. We must have a fair distribution of desires and burdens. Will the Minister shortly require and strengthen the code of conduct for wind on land? For the transition to a CO-neutral economy, the CDA Group wants the government to invest substantially in research and innovation. We have been asking for many years to increase spending on renewable energy projects and the commitment to research and innovation. This year, the Minister gives 9 billion to decisions under the SDE+ scheme. That is certainly in contrast to the few hundred million for innovations. Our prospects for the sustainability of our energy supply really need to go beyond the energy agreement. Dutch universities make the fastest solar cars and yet Dutch institutions do not play an international role in this area. The CDA Group wants investment to be targeted and to give new direction to the research centre for the energy transition announced by the Minister. At ECN, let us create a sustainable solar centre for Europe. The CDA Group is keen to achieve this in Petten. Is the Minister prepared, together with the region, to tackle this strengthening of research into renewable energy and to consider how to invest in it? The fact that the Minister is aware of the importance of innovation is also evident from the choice he has made for the beautiful company REDstack, as one of the icons of the Netherlands. The CDA is also proud of this beautiful company. Let that be an inspiration for the Minister to focus more on innovation in the future. I'd be happy to give him that challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u57	I would like to give the floor to Mr Monasch, who will be speaking on behalf of the Labour Party together with his colleague Mr Vos. He has eight minutes' speaking time for his part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u58	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by offering a report to the Minister. This report has been prepared after a tour of all kinds of small and medium-sized enterprises. SMEs in the Netherlands should not blame me for doing so in the beautiful province of Friesland. I think that this region is a symbol of many regions in the Netherlands. I will at least hand over one copy of the report to the Minister and one to the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u59	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u60	The report is entitled "Listening to Entrepreneurs - Opinions to the next Minister for Economic Affairs." It invites you to a conversation. It is not so much a question of looking ahead to what has gone right and wrong in recent years. Lobbyists and industry organisations wander between the Hague politics and the many entrepreneurs in our country. They conclude agreements with politics, which many expect to be followed directly from The Hague by individual companies in the country. There are images being created that suggest that there is no longer an employee in permanent employment, but are those images correct? How are all these agreements and agreements experienced? Does the Hague policy take sufficient account of the real challenges of SMEs? I can tell you that everything related to the budget itself will be discussed by my colleague, Mei Li Vos. In my section, I will focus on what I have received from the many SME entrepreneurs, which I would like to share with my colleagues in plenary, but above all with the Minister. Like many other colleagues, I have visited many companies in recent years. That's one of the privileges of a Member of Parliament: the doors open for you and you hear what's going on. Everyone tries to translate this into work in The Hague in their own way. I visited many companies in Friesland. I asked the people there what to learn and what to give to the next Minister for Economic Affairs. I will present a number of opinions to the Minister and I hope he will reflect on this in his first term. The opinions cover not so much technical individual regulations as shortcomings which often do not have such an impact on the economic affairs debate, but which are of the utmost importance to entrepreneurs. You could call it a kind of structural strengthening, but not in the sense that has been used here and elsewhere for decades. When you listen to all those entrepreneurs, especially in a province like Friesland, you hear that they're all constantly trying to adapt to the new market. In recent years, when I was a Member of Parliament, the Makkumer pottery factory disappeared as such, but it remained as such, because it completely transformed into a top company that now gives advice on the façade design of all kinds of buildings and the installation of the infrastructure of museums, for example. So the company's just gonna keep going. The same applies to the Hindelooper painting. When that lost some market share, a modern artist was asked to adapt the Hindelooper painting to the times. That company still exists and it is doing better than before. This also applies to the rope bearing in Sneek, who chose to lay the cables that are now used between the oceans. All these companies adapt: the boat builders, the temporary employment agencies, you name it. They want to give the new minister a number of things. I wrote that down. The first thing these SME entrepreneurs want to say is to make small and medium-sized enterprises the centrepiece of economic policy. All these start-ups and top sector policies are good, but 70% of the employees in the market sector work in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is the nursery of innovation and new employment. MKB entrepreneurs cherish their staff. Everywhere, I have encountered SME entrepreneurs who want to employ people on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u61	I see that Mr Özturk wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u62	Yes, when Mr Monasch has finished his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u63	Then you just have to keep a little distance from the microphone, then I'll know next time. Mr Monasch continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u64	Even in companies where the so-called heavy professions are employed, absenteeism is extremely low, whereas you would expect the opposite. There is an enormous link between the entrepreneurs and the staff, still. SMEs are clearly an indispensable cement in local society. Look at the advertising signs on the sports field: the existence of the local football club is made possible by SMEs through sponsorship fees. Large scale, focus on top sectors and top-down policies in banks are not helping SMEs. The SME entrepreneurs say: I don't come to the bank anymore, because they don't see you there anymore; you can still go to a website; you get an umbrella, but when it rains, they take it away from you. They note that there is unfair competition from Eastern Europe, but also refer to the gross net difference between the salary of a truck driver in Germany and that of a truck driver in the Netherlands. My question to this Minister for Economic Affairs is: how can we get these kinds of things even stronger on the agenda here, in addition to the good work done by this Minister? There is a feeling that there are many areas where SMEs need to return to policy even more. Another concern is the following. You could easily ask, given the departmental division in The Hague, why I do not discuss this in the OCW budget. However, I would like to raise it now. During my tour I listened carefully to all those entrepreneurs I spoke to. I think that the problem with the professionals is not due to the fact that people are not well informed, as the ESC says. If you listen to entrepreneurs and young people, especially in the region, you will hear the following. Why aren't street makers or car mechanics being trained anymore? Well, that's because the training is far too far away. In Friesland, in Makkum, you see, wherever you look, a mast of a boat. If you want to be a yacht painter there in the yacht building, you'll have to go to Zwolle for an MBO 4 degree. Zwolle is for a 16-year-old boy or girl more than two hours of travel and more than two hours of travel back. I can give you the examples of street makers and car mechanics. 80% of young people live in the region, but they have to leave the region in order to receive training.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u65	I congratulate Mr Monasch on having at least taken the trouble to visit all those companies in Friesland. The Market and Government Act, for which D66 and the VVD have been preparing an initiative proposal, became a toothless tiger at the time due to the amendment of PvdA and CDA among others. When I heard Mr Monasch's speech, I wondered if he had received any signals from the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u66	Those signals are variable. I speak to many ICT entrepreneurs who say that ICT knowledge has been wiped out in the government by the fact that everything has been outsourced to the PinkRoccades and the Centrixes of this world, that the bill has risen to billions. They're saddled with systems that don't work. Why? Because all that had to be outsourced. That's why the question is whether you shouldn't get that knowledge back to the government instead of handing it over to those kinds of companies. That's one side. The other side, the signal you give, is that temporary employment agencies sometimes find it very difficult to intervene, for example, because the municipality has a competitive policy. That was also true, but not as strong as my colleague Ziengs is now pointing out. But we are undoubtedly going to have that debate when we discuss the Market and Government Act, on which you have submitted an initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u67	It is certainly intended that this debate should take place. Mr Monasch's example of ICT is not really an example that really emerges in the market when it comes to public competition. I refer in particular to the smaller companies. Mr Monasch spoke about companies in Friesland. We are talking about marinas and such. There, on the contrary, a lot of initiatives are being taken by governments to exploit such companies, which can actually be done by companies themselves. I think that's really what this is about. I ask Mr Monasch whether he is considering examining the Market and Government Act in more detail on the thorny point that has also come to his attention from those companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u68	We're gonna take a good look. I can also give you an example of something I did not see on this tour but in another place, namely that in places where there is just a camping site, one still has camper pitches in the center on behalf of the municipality. Then you may at some point ask yourself whether that is a task of the government or whether you should just leave it at the local campsite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u69	Indeed, Mr Monasch really praised the fact that he listened to SMEs in Friesland and the rest of the Netherlands, as he said so beautifully. In recent decades, his party has always had the mouths of small and medium-sized enterprises as the backbone of the economy. That was always the policy language of the Labour Party. Mr Monasch now gives me the idea that he wants to give concrete hands and feet to that. I would ask Mr Monasch, like my colleague Mr Ziengs, to do the following. Companies send us all emails about the Market and Government Act, with that very strange element in it that, if a government sits on the entrepreneur's seat, any municipality can rely on the provision that the public interest allows this. If Mr Monasch has really listened to all these companies, then surely he can only say: if I take a good look at the entrepreneurs in Friesland and the rest of the Netherlands, then we should simply take that strange provision out of the law. Then we can take action, can't we? Then Mr Monasch can show that he is serious about SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u70	I think we should look very seriously at where it works and where it doesn't. I would point out that some tasks have been transferred to the market in such a way that the government is failing and we have to pay billions in bills because we are dealing with failing ICT systems. Look at what happened in that area. I also refer to the parliamentary survey. So you should look at that again. Look also at what is happening in the countryside, as my colleague Mr Mulder just said. The problem arises precisely from that point of view. We have a definition for the general interest and Europe says that this is not a general interest, so you cannot invest in it. On this point, you could say: sorry, we have often talked about the European point of departure for a service of general economic interest in the case of 'living', because the market seems to be in the way of rural development. I would like to say to Mr Verhoeven: let us see how we can get out of this together. Wherever the government gets in the way, we won't get in the way too. Where we see that some rules on the general interest are being abused by business, such as in rural development, such as in the case of ICT provisions, we need to look at them a little more widely. I wouldn't be too ideological about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u71	I will not be too ideological in this. But Mr Monasch is now confusing two things, I think, consciously. He talks about the service of general economic interest, as is the case with housing corporations. I fully agree with him when it comes to large-scale outsourcing of ICT projects that have completely failed and have gone to a number of large IT companies. But it has nothing to do with that. It has nothing to do with Europe either. This is about a Dutch law that we have made ourselves and in which the PvdA and the CDA have put together that a municipality can sit in the seat of the entrepreneur by relying on an article in that law, namely: you can do this, because it is the public interest. This is completely independent of Europe and it is completely independent of IT. These are small entrepreneurs who suffer from a fitness centre of the municipality, from a photo company of the municipality, from all kinds of activities of municipalities that want to be enterprising, but with which they compete with the entrepreneurs where Mr Monasch has been. If Mr Monasch really wants to do something for SMEs, will we do something about it? Then today we say: we are taking that step forward and we are adapting the Market and Government Act? That's the PvdA we have to go to, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u72	No doubt. But if you speak for your party, I will speak for my party. The point is that we can always evaluate and monitor a provision of general interest. If there is unfair competition, Mr Verhoeven will find us on his side. But removing it would mean always giving priority to it, when there can be a general interest, as the word says, which leads to a different consideration. I think we should have that space, too. However, let us have that debate more precisely with the Market and Government Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u73	I have the impression that, after a very long run, Mr Öztürk is going to cause an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u74	I am so glad that Mr Monasch has visited many entrepreneurs. I have just asked the VVD about the ethnic profile of entrepreneurship. The VVD is in a denial phase, while the cabinet has already replied that this exists. Has the ethnic profile of entrepreneurs been discussed in Mr Monasch's tour? What's he gonna do about it as a future leader of the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u75	Anyway, ethnic profiling is a bad thing. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Perhaps the province of Friesland still has the pleasant privilege that this is less so. But of course I also come to other companies, in other places and I hear noises from my colleagues. Where there is racism or discrimination, where that would be a reason, we must fight it at all times. At the same time, I also know Mr Öztürk as an entrepreneur in a previous period, I believe in the power of entrepreneurs; I believe they can do so on their own. Where there is ethnic profiling, we must, of course, denounce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u76	I too believe in that power. An entrepreneur must do his best to continue entrepreneurship. Yet entrepreneurs are hampered in their functioning, for example by additional inspections that take place. Mr Monasch has taken on a challenge and announced plans. It would be nice, instead of going after the VVD in their denial phase, to put a little more attention and a little more power on it to tackle the ethnic profile of entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u77	I don't know if there's anyone in denial. I leave that debate entirely to the other colleagues. I would like to repeat it once again, but I think I have been very clear about this. Where this is the case, we are side by side to deal with it. I repeat that many young people no longer take courses because the training is far too far away. This means, for example, that in the province where I took the tour, Greeks or Poland do certain jobs because the young people in the province are no longer trained there. Fortunately, there will be an annual MBO card, but without it many young people will not even be able to go to training because the costs are simply too high. One entrepreneur said the boats can't get through the lock anymore. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment looks at a lock as something that belongs to a quay, but for shipbuilders or for the ports of Lelystad and Zwolle a lock is a much needed connection to develop their yard or their ports. How can we ensure in the future that I and M look at such matters not only as part of a quay, but also as an investment in regional infrastructure? Is the minister in contact with the VNG? In this connection, would he like to discuss the attitude of many municipal officials towards SMEs? "For an economic reason we have never modified a zoning plan," said the official to the entrepreneur who wanted to invest in the city but noticed that the zoning plan was in the way. After eight months of trying at the municipality, an entrepreneur finally got his way. Then they said, "You'll have to fill out the forms." The entrepreneur then said: "I am happy to do so. Give them to me!" Then the official said, "We're still working on that. You can pick up the forms in a month." This kind of practice takes place in town halls. It is high time that the UNG started working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u78	I am also on the air transport committee with Mr Monasch. There's only a few MPs in there. As Mr Monasch also mentioned shipping, I would like to ask him what he thinks of the developments at Schiphol, because I think that the Minister for Economic Affairs should also be involved. The government is a shareholder of Schiphol and KLM. Now Etihad Airways has gained the most prominent position at Schiphol Airport, while they are already fakely competing with us. They are abusing their kerosene power and they are being used with state aid. How does Mr Monasch stand in that regard? Or the PvdA or GroenLinks, or whatever it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u79	Mr Monasch speaks on behalf of the Labour Party, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u80	I understand they're becoming like Siamese twins, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u81	I heard it last night, too, but I didn't quite recognize myself in that image. We've talked about this before. If it's not enough, we'll stick together. Where there is evidence that the problem is always unfair competition, we will have to intervene. This is not about SMEs, because we are talking about multinationals in aviation, but wherever there is unfair competition, also in the field of shipping, think about the discussion on corporate taxation. The big task is every time to find proof of that. We also know from the discussion that we sometimes have in the aviation committee that it is sometimes quite difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u82	Nevertheless, KLM and Schiphol contribute a lot to the Netherlands. The Minister of Economic Affairs is one of the big shepherds of the BV Nederland. That's why I'm asking. That kerosene power and that state aid are there. That's a fact. What does Mr Monasch, and in this case the PvdA, think about the fact that an airline such as Etihad Airways has been given the most prominent place on Schiphol Airport? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Maybe we can hang out in that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u83	I would like to comment on this, but we often have these debates during the AO Aviation. For anyone who listens and perhaps has less to do with aviation: in the end this is the policy of the Schiphol N.V. itself. She has to decide how she deals with her clients. If we want to change that, we need to discuss in another discussion, not here, whether we, as a state and as a parliament, want to determine which plane is located at Schiphol Airport. I think that goes a little far. I share your concern, but this is primarily the responsibility of the management of Schiphol. We are going to have a very different debate tomorrow at this time. This is about how we ensure that the KLM is preserved for the Netherlands and not for Paris. So let's have that debate first thing tomorrow. Then we continue to talk about these other topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u84	I will leave it at that, Mr President. But I want to make the point that KLM and Schiphol are among the most important companies in the Netherlands. We are having a debate here on Economic Affairs. That is why this was a very legitimate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u85	This was a perfectly legitimate question and I think you have also received an answer from Mr Monasch. So he served you well. You're going to talk about this tomorrow. Mr Monasch continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u86	I couldn't have said it better, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, I have tried to answer Mr Graus's question. There are many employers in SMEs who, fortunately, still employ people on a permanent basis. They give people with a "spot" "it's an ugly word" "just a place." They also hire people who are older. SMEs then say: with an older employee, I have a bit of peace and balance in my workforce. I call Stertil in Kootstertille, a big company somewhere far away in Friesland doing business all over the world. That's where they get the production back from Poland. In the framework of the Participation Act, all kinds of people will be employed there from the social service. However, they also say: beware that the risks do not become too great. A lot of arrangements add up. They say: we absolutely do not want to go into too much flexibilisation. They say: we don't want all thosezzp'ers, but we shouldn't be forced because sometimes we can't see the risks anymore. They say: so make sure that social security becomes SME proof. This leads me to my conclusion and to a call. I am trying to sum this up in one proposal. There is a lot going on, but I would like to settle this because I hope that this Minister and also the next Minister for Economic Affairs want to see that if we are not going to change things in the field of education, for example, but also in the focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, we will have to continue talking for a very long time about a lack of skilled workers, especially in the region. We need very different solutions than, for example, the solution proposed by the ESC today around the MBO. All these findings are described in detail in the report I submitted to the Minister. 70% of employment is in SMEs. Small and medium-sized enterprises often face complex arrangements. In the light of all this, we want to make the following proposal, after this tour, but also following the example of the SME Netherlands, ONL and the Dutch Federation of Contractors. We want all the legislation and regulations related to SMEs to become SME proof. Therefore, if new laws or rules are introduced, they should be subject to an SME test, assessing the negative or positive effects on SMEs. This will make it possible to adapt laws and rules in important respects so that SMEs are not hindered in their development and so that entrepreneurs are encouraged by the public authorities to hire new staff in permanent employment, rather than being held back by them. I therefore ask whether the Minister is prepared to identify the possibilities for this SME test. Is he prepared to report to the Chamber before 1 February on these possibilities, so that the Chamber can debate them before the election recess and pass the results on to the cabinet reformer? It is therefore an SME test focusing on legislation and regulation that affects SMEs. In particular, the impact on SMEs' business and investment capacity should be assessed. It is also necessary to assess the impact on the development of fully-fledged employment, with permanent jobs at the heart of the labour market and a necessary flexible shell for dealing with cyclical shocks. Can the Minister make a proposal to the Chamber for this? I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u87	Thank you. Mrs Van Tongeren would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u88	I have a question about SMEs. Maybe it fits the mbk key as well. In the Netherlands we have the Environmental Management Act. It states that an entrepreneur must make every possible investment in energy efficiency that pays back within five years. As an example, shops where the doors are open or where cooling is not yet covered. It may also be workshops that are not isolated. In this way, SMEs are also encouraged to make investments that reduce the energy bill. Perhaps Mr Monasch also talked about this during the round with all the entrepreneurs in Friesland. How does the PvdA view this arrangement? How, according to the PvdA, should that scheme be maintained, also specifically for the mbk?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u89	In itself, these objectives are fine. However, I would like to see whether a small SME entrepreneur can handle these investments every time. Sometimes something is easily decided here and then it is an SME entrepreneur who has to make investments in many places, also in combination with other regulations, which at some point makes the burden too great for him. The aim set out by Mrs Van Tongeren is very nice, but the SME test can show whether a particular measure can be carried out, for example, for an SME with ten staff and limited turnover. I think we should take this seriously. I feel that this aspect is sometimes forgotten. I think it is right that we should put these two tests of enterprise capacity and employment capacity at the heart of the debate. I hope that my colleagues in the Chamber and also the Minister will support this. At the moment, I feel that many SME entrepreneurs are getting something from all sides, while there are always two things at the heart of them: can I continue to do business and can I employ people on a permanent basis? I would like such a test to take place in this house again and that we can look at it together from this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u90	This is not a proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u91	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u92	...but a law that has been in force for a long time. However, this law is being enforced rather poorly, while it also has an advantage for SMEs. If you decide with an entire street to close the shop doors, or decide with all the supermarkets in the neighborhood to cover cooling, this will save small and medium-sized enterprises a lot of money. It is not, therefore, just a question of putting small and medium-sized enterprises at a cost. In the longer term, the costs will be reduced. Once again, I ask Mr Monasch if he has talked to anyone in Friesland about this. Did that come up somewhere? Did an entrepreneur want to fill his roofs with solar panels or isolate his roofs, in order to bring down his energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u93	There is also a thriving industry in Friesland in terms of energy efficiency for SMEs. That's why you need professionals, people trained in this field. My main concern is that training in this area is currently completely inadequate. In the end, boys and girls who would like to receive such training do not choose to do so, because they are given too far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u94	I listened with interest to Mr Monasch's speech on the SME test. I wonder two things. Firstly, what is really the difference with the impact assessment that we have been applying for years when introducing new legislation and regulations? We always keep an eye on the different interests, also from the point of view of Brussels: think small first. Secondly, is Mr Monasch prepared to submit to that test certain laws that have already been introduced? I am thinking here of the Market and Government Act and perhaps also of the Work and Security Act, which Mr Monasch already thinks something about, as I understand from the media. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u95	I am trying to outline that things that we do not think so quickly, which are often in other areas, have a major impact on the strength of our small and medium-sized enterprises. Education is perhaps the most prescriptive example of this. If I tell this story and talk about it with colleagues in Drenthe, but also in Zeeland, the Achterhoek and Limburg, then it is one big recognition. And then I haven't even talked about the quality of the training; most SMEs usually have to start all over again with the people who come to work in their company, because they have learned so little. As far as I am concerned, the impact assessment is not enough at the moment. I have, of course, checked this and checked with the trade associations. Those are for it, too. They come up with proposals in different forms. That is why I asked the Minister whether he could reflect on this and make a proposal to the Chamber on this matter. SMEs The Netherlands is asking for this. ONL is asking for this. The Dutch Federation of Contractors is asking for this. So let us try to put this focus back into focus here, so that we can undertake and employ people again. As far as I am concerned, the committee conducting the SME test should consist in a majority of entrepreneurs who actually have a business. Lobbyists are also welcome, but the majority of the committee must consist of entrepreneurs who have a business and therefore know the consequences of a given measure for a company.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u96	However, I have the feeling that we will then be setting something up, which then becomes an instance. That is how I understand Mr Monasch. He didn't explicitly indicate where exactly the difference was: he wants something extra, but he wants to set it up with experts. Do those experts have perseverance? Is their advice so decisive that we can actually do something? Or is it just an advisory thing? That's what I'm curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u97	From the VVD I have always understood that the decision-making power is ultimately here. For aviation we have an Alderstable, but from the VVD I have always understood that the final decisions are taken here. I believe that it should be a major opinion that legislation and regulations should be dealt with in the Chamber so that we know in advance exactly what the advantages and disadvantages of regulation are for SMEs. Again: the design is open, but the call for such a thing is very large. SMEs are the job engine, so this must be put back at the centre. The demand comes from everywhere within SMEs, hence this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u98	We will study the proposal carefully, because I do not know all the ins and outs yet. We need to look closely at the problems within the mbk. As a Member of Parliament who enters many companies, I know that funding is a major problem, but that is certainly true for hiring staff. One of the issues that my colleague Pieter Heerma raises in other debates is how to achieve five-year contracts instead of shortening the duration of the contracts. Entrepreneurs always tell me about them. In fact, people are no longer being properly trained, which means that things are going to stop, and there are going to be very strange 23-month contracts and so on. No one is happy about that: neither employers nor employees. Is Mr Monasch calling today for that to be done by coming up with five-year contracts? As a family, you can make an investment decision and decide to live in a particular region. After all, many people are wondering: do I dare to accept a job here, even if it is for a shorter and flexible period? Almost everyone knows you don't just get fixed contracts anymore. Many people do not want that either, but they do want security for the medium term. Does Mr Monasch and the PvdA want that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u99	I know the discussion about five-year contracts. What I hear from all SMEs is, however, the following. They want the risks to be reduced, because they are currently unable to see it in many areas. The entrepreneurs I spoke to in my previous spokespersonship were that people from Building the Netherlands and especially from the Contractors Federation, in which SMEs are well represented, want the following. They want to employ people on a permanent basis. As relevant as Mrs Mulder's discussion is, in my contribution I have chosen to translate what I hear from these entrepreneurs. They want to employ people on a permanent basis, because that distinguishes them from the big business. They want to bind people for a long time. They want to invest in them, because that proves the quality of their business. That other discussion on five-year contracts may be conducted by me, but it is the businessmen who are concerned that they are given well-trained staff to take on permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u100	Another point is the payment of wages in the event of illness and the risk that the employer will have to pay in full. The ESC is currently counting on a proposal from the CDA on this point. How does the PvdA Group stand in there? That is one of the risks that Mr Monasch is talking about. How does the PvdA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u101	We support this proposal being properly selected. I am happy to tell Mrs Mulder that the new election programme of the Labour Party, which came out yesterday, states that we want to conclude a new employment agreement with trade unions and employers, with a long-term effect for greater job security for all workers. I assume that this will certainly be part of that. The example mentioned by Mrs Mulder is exactly such an example that you often hear back.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u102	I thank Mr Monasch for his contribution. Then we go to his colleague from the PvdA Group, Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u103	Mr. Chairman. My brother Michiel won the prize two weeks ago at the Hello Tomorrow Summit in Paris for the best innovation in the field of waste reduction. He has old coconut pallets pressed. In addition, he uses glue from those coconuts. The press technology allows the pallets to carry 3,000 kilos. That's really insane. So he's using garbage, which is rotting differently, and he's using durable glue. He makes sure that the people living in a coconut-rich area can get extra income. He also prevents the dragging of pallets that are made here to Asia, for example. It's really about five blows in one. He's been working on that for years, but his experience with government and corporate policy is not undividedly positive. A year and a half ago, he finally won a voucher for research and tests in Wageningen. However, the conditions for that voucher were so complicated that he finally had to return that voucher. He and a number of acquaintances and friends have joined together and eventually he has carried out the tests himself. He has lost quite a lot of time to qualify for the vouchers of state. He believed in his ideas and continued through rowing and windows. He's invested a lot of his own money in it. I've cooked him a lot, too. Knowing him, he will get through the next phase, the so-called valley of death. However, he no longer expects so much from the government. He does have an opinion for us: we have to conduct industrial policy. He sees that in every foreign country where he goes, the entrepreneurs are ten times more senior and innovative than we are. So it is really important that we implement the industrial policy, which I will talk about in particular, properly and effectively, and that we get out of the international competition that he is in the middle of. He has the idea that our top sector policy is a lot of chat. Let's have a little chat. Let us simply show that our industrial policy is really going to help innovative entrepreneurs. There are three points of criticism of top-level policy and industrial policy which always come back. First of all, only successful companies are supported, and not those very weird innovative companies like my brother's. Secondly, the causal relationship between input and outcome, which we have just mentioned, cannot be demonstrated. Thirdly, it's an expensive talking circuit. It is not for nothing that there was a column by Martin Visser in De Telegraaf about this. Thomas van Luyn even wrote about it in Volkskrant Magazine. Furthermore, Kees Kraaijeveld in Vrij Nederland had quite strict criticism. But don't be afraid, Minister Kamp. You know that we are very much in favour of industrial policy. Our election programme also states that we want to continue with the top sectors policy, but on the basis of the opinion that we should also use it regionally. The PvdA is also for industrial policy, but then you have to focus it, then you have to set your goals. In my view, these were exactly the advice of the WRR. That's just what I was trying to tell you with my colleague Agnes Mulder. I have already proposed to break the sectorial tubes by linking them to the National Science Agenda, but let's talk about what you want with industrial policy: employment, also in the regions outside the peripheral city, sustainability and ensuring good framework conditions. I was born in Eindhoven when that was still a real Philips city. All the fathers, and often mothers, of the boyfriends in class worked at Philips. When I come back, I see the revolution that Eindhoven has made: from an old manufacturing industry to an incredibly vibrant network of companies, small businesses, start-ups, students and entrepreneurs, to a crossroads of technology, design, originality and creativity. That's unbelievable. Eindhoven is rightly a brainport. There are now internationally operating companies that are sort of offspring of Philips, such as NXP and ASML. VDL's in there, too. A brainport performs a system function for the entire Dutch manufacturing industry. That has been human work with a lot of vision. We are all very proud of that in the Netherlands. And we're taking advantage of it, because every euro they make there comes back a lot. The added value of entrepreneurs and workers there is really considerable. Industrial policy is also: ensuring a good location policy. It's been mentioned a few times. Richard Florida has written very nice books about it. Why did Silicon Valley come into being exactly where it is now? Because the location climate in San Francisco and its surroundings was very good and because it was the gay capital of that region. Eindhoven and the province of Noord-Brabant rightly drew attention to the reaction of the cabinet to the mainport advice of the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure (Rli). The government, at least the Minister of I and M, does nothing about the recommendation made by the Rli. The Environment and Infrastructure Council is actually saying: move away from this mainport policy and think in strong regions and sectors. I honestly don't understand why the Cabinet is ignoring the Rli's advice. I ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether and how he is going to respond to the letter from the province of Brabant, why the cabinet does not recognise the advice of the Rli and why it actually chooses to support the existing port of Rotterdam and Schiphol again. They are also very important, but the world is changing. Will he also fill the action agenda brainport Eindhoven with concrete plans, so that a next cabinet can start work immediately? Is the Minister prepared to look again with his colleague from I and M at the advice of the Rli and to adopt the opinion? Will the Eindhoven brainport become an economic core area, as recommended by the Council? This requires an integrated strategic location policy, as in the north and south wings of the Randstad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u104	What the CDA may have been most surprised about on this point is that the economic policy of Minister Kamp for Economic Affairs is rather focused on regions. Does the PvdA also see that it is very strange that you are going for those strong regions through the development of top sector policies and that you are looking at such a report in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u105	Yeah, we think that's weird. That's why we're asking. When I read the council's advice in addition to the cabinet's response, I see a big emptiness. We all know what special things happen in Eindhoven and surroundings and how important this is for the new economy of the Netherlands. There is talk of cooperation there at most. I've once called my good friend Japke Bouma the term "yuktal." There are a lot of generals about cooperation and linking et cetera, but there is no concrete plan, and that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u106	So what has now been said by the Minister of I and M is unacceptable to the PvdA Group? And the PvdA Group says that it really has to be different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u107	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u108	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u109	Another important part of business and industrial policy I have already mentioned about this last time: investments in ICT infrastructure, in particular those in SURF. Last year I tabled an amendment with my colleague Verhoeven. After a lot of talking back and forth with Minister Kamp, we decided not to cover it from the TKI bonus but from the Future Fund. The Future Fund is largely revolver. Part, especially now that 23 million has been added, is partly revolver. The disagreement between SURF and the Ministry of EZ is whether to consider it as a credit, to be repaid after five years, or as an investment, as it used to be, when it came from the FES. As far as we are concerned, and also as far as Mr Verhoeven was concerned, I think it should be seen as a subsidy rather than a subsidy. Since it comes from the Future Fund, it is an effort obligation for SURF. A lot of companies benefit from this, but it is different than a credit for an investment that makes you the same amount of money. Many companies benefit from this and will therefore also generate tax revenues. My request to the Minister is to resolve this disagreement with SURF and, like us, to regard last year's amendment as an effort obligation, and not as a heavy credit obligation. I think there is room for that, too, because 23 million has now been added to the Future Fund, which does not necessarily have to be revolver. I hope the Minister will give me an affirmative answer. I still have the amendment in itself in which I have the 8 million deck from the TKI supplement, but I hope I do not have to submit it. I have two other issues: these are consumer issues. The first concerns unsolicited follow-up transmissions. I don't know who's ever been seduced here by an ad for pills that would make you healthier, younger, slimmer or I don't know what, but there are a lot of offers on the Internet that consumers fall for. That's because of a hole in the Law of Dam. What's going on? They take a trial package and after a while it turns out that they have chosen a subscription. That's what it says in fine print. It's allowed by the law. You must indicate that something is converted into a subscription. But people often don't know that when they order a trial package. The Van Dam Act states that a trial subscription to a newspaper or a magazine may no longer be automatically renewed. That has been a very good part of the law. This concerns Article 6.2.36 (s) of the Civil Code. This should also apply to products, because there are now too many companies lurking around consumers, including terrible collection agencies, by forcing them to subscribe when they do not know that they are stuck with that subscription. The Consumers' Association has received 7,000 complaints about it and the ACM has also received a lot of complaints about it. We need to get this over with. I specifically ask the Minister whether he has heard these complaints from the ACM. And when is the review of the Van Dam Act scheduled? I haven't been able to see that, and I think it's about time now. Will there soon be a consumer-related law of this minister or of his colleague from V and J to amend this article of the Civil Code, so that products can no longer be automatically renewed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u110	I doubted for a moment whether I would ask my question, because I'm still trying to take a serious tone, but I can't resist it. How does my colleague from the PvdA view the PvdA's flash membership? For this you were advertised: for €2 you are a member and you can vote. When checking, you still appear to be stuck with a subscription for a whole year for €24. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u111	No, that's fascinating. I've been watching that extensively. Here's what you have to do. I also hope you'll be a flash member. You become a member, and then you can pay in two ways. You pay €24 in one go or you pay with a direct debit €2 per month. If you indicate "I want to terminate my membership now," you have de facto paid €2. And that's exactly in the spirit of the Law of Dam. We have quite a few cancellations from time to time, but fortunately we also have reporters. And they're gonna cancel any minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u112	I would like to point out that this is the Economic Affairs budget, but it touches...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u113	It affects the Law of Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u114	... legislation that Mrs. Vos herself introduced, so I'm allowing a second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u115	You will allow it, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. It is indeed about the question: how fast are you attached to a subscription and how fair is advertising about it? This way of advertising, in which people have to discover for themselves that they have to quit very quickly, thus according to the PvdA meets all the requirements of the Van Dam Act. It is therefore the way in which the PvdA wants this to be regulated in other sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u116	According to the Van Dam Act, you can't even cancel your subscription for a year. So if you take a subscription, you can cancel every month after a year. At the PvdA you can do it every month. That is very much in the spirit of the Law of Dam. I expected this question, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u117	I see that Mr Verhoeven has all kinds of thoughts. I wonder what the question is going to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u118	They're already quite crystallized. As Mrs Vos had seen this question coming, I shall go on. After all, Mrs Van Tongeren has a very valid point to make. I'll make Mrs. Fox the next offer. We're going to support that motion as a chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u119	You're gonna be a flash member?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u120	No, no hair on my head that thinks about it, even though there aren't that many anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u121	There's plenty of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u122	We're gonna embrace the PvdA's proposal. We are going to set up a national ombudsman for consumers. Is the PvdA then prepared...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u123	That's my next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u124	Mrs Vos, let Mr Verhoeven speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u125	It is a very clear question to which Mrs Vos can answer yes or no. Is the Labour Party prepared to allow PvdA membership to be the first case of that national ombudsman? Mrs Vos's proposal is to get that Ombudsman to work so as not to allow consumers to cheat anymore. Is the PvdA willing to let him see the PvdA membership for €2 right away? We can deal with two things at the same time. Mr Monasch will, of course, vote in favour of this motion, so it will be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u126	It's okay. I have no objection to that at all. I have not yet got to the subject of consumer ombudsman, because that is another issue, namely mass damage. But if the PvdA flash members have suffered mass damage from their flash membership, which is possible, that is a very nice first case, so my answer is: yes. Shall I now explain exactly what I mean by the consumer ombudsman?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u127	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u128	It's about mass damage and scatter damage. I have often raised this issue, and so have Mr Ten Hoopen of the CDA and Mrs Dijksma. If you are being scammed or you are disadvantaged by, for example, the image tube cartel, it often does not pay as an individual consumer to make a business out of it. But if you unite, you can. In 2011, my colleague and then MP Sharon Dijksma tabled a motion, together with D66, in which the government was asked to draw up a bill allowing associations to file a mass claims claim on behalf of a group of consumers. Until then, we must do it with what is now in the law. There are now all kinds of foundations, clubs and lawyers that say the mass damage for consumers based on no cure no pay to go stories. Last week, in the news, a group of participants of the Lottery Loss Foundation brought the founder to justice because they think that the money they have deposited with him has disappeared. Research by Utrecht University showed that most of the claim organisations do not comply with the voluntary claim code. So there's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u129	Mrs Vos, I would like to interrupt you to make a point of order. Are you now answering Mr Verhoeven's question, which has since left the interrupting microphone, or have you continued with your own speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u130	I answered his question with a yes and then said that I would explain what this consumer ombudsman is for, namely for mass damage. So I answered him a little more. Should flash members experience mass damage and all want to recover their €2 or more from the PvdA, they can certainly file a complaint with that Ombudsman. I was just explaining how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u131	So that is another answer to Mr Verhoeven's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u132	I had already given that answer, but I wanted to respond to it, because Mr Verhoeven responds to the message that appeared earlier in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u133	I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u134	I would have stayed with the consumer ombudsman. Utrecht University has therefore found that it is not working at the moment and has also found that in many countries around us regulators, such as the ACM and the AFM, have among themselves a consumer ombudsman who helps consumers to file such a claim. We think that this is very good for consumer law in the Netherlands, also to keep entrepreneurs sharp. We do not see it happening at the moment that the claims organisations, and especially the commercial lawyers, are going to comply by themselves with the claim code. I therefore ask the Minister when that bill will come, and when it comes to it, I ask him to give concrete thought to the consumer ombudsman. I would also like to know where the Ombudsman could be placed. I'm thinking of the ACM or the AFM myself. It would be difficult to place the consumer ombudsman under the National Ombudsman, because the latter is about public law, while the first is about private law. That request seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. We continue with Mr Graus, who speaks on behalf of the PVV Group. He has a seven-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u136	Mr. Chairman. The most widely heard complaint from entrepreneurs is that banks no longer provide loans, in particular up to €250,000. In the weeks leading up to this budget debate, I have made a lot of contact with companies I have visited in the past. I've also made a call to everyone. This is really the common thread in all these conversations. The whole corporate funding story is wrong. The cabinet has set up the SME Credit Guarantee, the SMEB, to contribute to this. However, the BMKB came very late, causing many healthy companies to get in trouble. At the same time, it is planned to increase the average premium from 3.6% to 4.8%. Companies that focus on innovation will even pay 6,65%. The sector argues that accessibility is severely restricted for many entrepreneurs, which will lead to new bankruptcies and job losses. This also leads to losses for e.g. the Netherlands; all this is tied together. The PVV has once proposed a savings bank that collects savings and an entrepreneurial bank that provides loans to entrepreneurs. That's two in one. I know that there is no majority in this Chamber, but we have made several proposals for the creation of a state savings bank and an entrepreneurial bank. My colleague Teun van Dijck even asked in the Committee on Finance whether the SNS could have been appropriate, but unfortunately. This is really gonna be the future. We are far ahead of our time, but the Chamber and the government are not yet ready for it. So we're gonna have to park it. We believe that banks should return to their original position. And that's what someone who spent two and a half years on the De Wit Committee has been investigating the banking crisis and the credit crisis. Small businesses also encounter problems due to late payments by local authorities. I was the first one to put that in the chamber. At the time, the Minister denied that. He even came up with a state that showed that governments and municipalities were even very good payers, at least relatively. There were also some municipalities that did less; he honestly admitted that. We want the names of those dubious debtors, which really made companies look bad, to be published, which is naming-and-shaming, and cut through public money flows, for example through the Gemeentefonds. Is the Minister possibly open to that now? In the Acts, moreover, it is clear that the Minister said at first that I was wrong about that, but now it really turns out that it is. In the Netherlands we have about a millionzzp'ers. It could be a little more or a little less, I can't say that right now, but we're about a million. For the people at home: azzp'er is a self-employed person without any staff. Let me make that clear to the people who don't know what azzp'er is. We do not want allzzp'ers to be shaved along the same lines and put back in the employee loft. They may have to deal with compulsory pension and disability insurance. I want the Minister to make a distinction between thezzp'ers. I understand there are six different types ofzzp'ers. Some have consciously chosen to do so, but others are forced to do so and are therefore not, in fact, entrepreneurs. That is why we are actually asking for a task force to do justice to individual circumstances. I think we've really reached that point, with around a million entrepreneurs. How are we going to make the most of talent? How do we get an analysis of the labour market? We must distinguish between the forced zzp'ers and the victims, I would like to call them "zzp'ers', the entrepreneurs. In addition, the consultation with stakeholders is included. I would like to hear what the Minister thinks of a task force within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in consultation with the stakeholders, of course. I think this Minister is one of the best ministers in this cabinet, together with Minister Schippers. I have said this several times and I would like to repeat it now. But I have noticed for years that he does not seem to be well aware of the general bottlenecks that smaller SMEs, franchisees andzzp'ers face on a daily basis. He doesn't hear me about big companies. That's where he has all the contacts. In what way has the Ministry of Economic Affairs contributed in recent years to the implementation of adopted Graus motion concerning slowness and decision-making? The speed has to go up. Authorisation procedures need to be shortened. What is the situation with regard to the reduction of administrative burdens and conflicting laws and regulations? What about Actal's survival? People who've been with me have a lot of concerns about that. It did good things, didn't it? Or does the Minister not share that view? I'd like to hear a reaction, because he has a better view of it than I do. The Minister has hundreds of officials at his disposal and I have one and a half employees. That's a big difference. I always have to ask them a lot. Regional inequality due to increases in excise duties was not always denied by this minister, but by his predecessors. There would be no regional inequality. Of course there is. While underprivileged people flood us, the Netherlands is leaving more and more promising. What will the Minister and the Government do against the rise in emigration and the flow of knowledge and knowledge? I would like to ask how the Minister ensures better synergy between often too theoretical education and business. I also want to talk about the old crafts and craftsmanship. They need to be secured. The government has a proper role in this. You can't leave that to people who don't have budgets for that and to clubs and foundations. That's not how it works. The government really needs to get involved in that. In fact, industry is complaining about still missing or inadequate access to education. I would ask the Minister to provide sufficient internships for old craftsmen so that knowledge and skills are not lost. Actually, I should also ask him, I'm not going to, I'm going to stick with the task force zzp................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's what we've grown up with, and we haven't. I'd like the Minister's mediation. Finally, I have two further requests. I ask the Minister, together with the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment, to develop a coordinated roadmap in cooperation with Neerland's centuries-old pride, the maritime sector of the Netherlands, in order to preserve the shared knowledge base and the global number one position. The very last request is that we would like to set up a cybersecurity centre for entrepreneurs within EZ. It seems that this involves some 10 billion damage per year. I'd like to hear confirmation of that. Those people can't contact the NCTV's national cybersecurity center. I'd like to hear a response to that. The required 10 million will soon be recouped. I have put forward an amendment to that effect. If it's 10 billion dollars worth of damage, they'll be recouped soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u137	I call Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. He will provide his input together with Mrs Van Veldhoven. Mr Verhoeven has seven minutes in first place for his part.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u138	Mr. Chairman. It is in fashion nowadays to doom thinking and to claim that everything is going badly in the Netherlands. Yes, there are societal challenges such as globalisation and digitalisation that make people insecure. And yes, economic policy must therefore be improved. We need more investment in research and innovation, a more modern innovation policy and better funding for small and medium-sized enterprises. But the starting position of the Netherlands is good. This is demonstrated by the fourth position on the list of most competitive economies. Our digital starting position is also good, but we must continue to work on fast internet in the region and invest in the surf supercomputer, as Mrs Mei-Li Vos said just now. Moreover, we should not introduce bad hacking laws or weaken encryption. This is the last EZ budget of this cabinet, and that's okay. Because the policy was mainly: cutting back on research, subsidising large companies, which is indeed a hobby of the VVD, as Mr Graus said, and sticking to nine top sectors, as the VVD itself, just by mouth of Mr Ziengs, mumblingly admitted. It is also the last EZ budget of this minister, and I regret that, because there are few ministers like Mr Kamp. That is why I, as an optimistic D66 man, would like to go with him once more and even with a next cabinet. I will do this first of all by addressing the cuts made by the Rutte I and II Cabinets, which have ensured that we are now further away than ever from the objective of spending 1% of gross domestic product on publicly funded research. This is detrimental to our innovation and competitiveness, and thus to our economic growth and employment. That's why D66 wants to invest 1 billion more in research and innovation in the next government period. Firstly, much of that money needs to be spent on fundamental research, so that our Ben Feringas can focus on groundbreaking research and get the next Nobel Prize for the Netherlands. Secondly, part of that billion should go to well-functioning instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups, such as the MIT scheme and the SBIR programmes. I've talked about that before in the Chamber. Thirdly, a part must go towards modernised innovation policy. D66 aims at transforming innovation policy while maintaining the good of nine top sectors....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These are four global, societal themes in which the Netherlands can lead in finding and finding solutions. After all, it is time to take the lead around the world. Let us find a solution to the storage of renewable energy. Let us force breakthroughs in curing cancer and dementia. Let us lead the way to sufficient food safety for all. Thus, from top sectors to world themes: this is how we increase prosperity and well-being and thus create opportunities and jobs. Think of the moon landing or the Delta Works. In addition to knowledge and innovation, these projects also provided hope and inspiration and an impetus for progress that could benefit everyone. The next cabinet will have to implement these reforms. I'm aware of that. But I hope that today we can take the first step. For that I do not want the word game in which I got caught up with Mr Ziengs, but a real drive for action to gradually implement the reform that everyone in this Chamber is actually in favour of. The advisory councils are in favour. Actually, the Minister himself is in favour of it. Business is in favour of it. Scientists are in favour. Everyone is actually in favour of it, and all we have to do is just do it now. I really want to try to work constructively on this today, because perhaps I have sometimes chosen too critical words about the top sectors. However, I am critical of this. We must now transform it into those world themes. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I'll come to the digitalization. We see this as one of the pillars of innovation policy with great opportunities for companies in smart factories, the Internet of Things, quantum computers and 3D printers. But there are also great opportunities for the government, for example by using blockchain technology to make government processes more efficient. For example, Honduras replaced part of the Chamber of Commerce with blockchain. Dj Hardwell is working on blockchain to better regulate copyright. We can use blockchain to make payments of surcharges less susceptible to fraud. That is why I have tabled an amendment to launch an SBIR program asking start-ups to make government processes more efficient through blockchain technology. This way we stimulate Dutch start-ups and create solutions that make the government more efficient. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. We have often talked about start-ups in recent years. All this attention is positive, because it has made the Netherlands a really good start-up country. This attention is partly due to the StartupDelta, but the same StartupDelta is also in the way of start-ups. For example, the government is competing with other start-up contracts organized by zero-zero-subsidies by entrepreneurs. That's very undesirable. It is not for nothing that VVD and D66 are working on tightening up the Market and Government Act. I ask the Minister to stop playing entrepreneur and to stop the Startup Delta conference. In reply to factual questions, the Minister said that it was the StartupDelta's job to get foreign start-ups to the Netherlands. That sounds nice, but a start-up like Uber draws away a lot of talented programmers who had otherwise started a start-up in the Netherlands. This is good for employment, but it is bad for the start-up climate. I would like to hear a response to those activities of StartupDelta, which are actually obstructive for a number of start-ups who perform those activities themselves. I conclude with a highlight of my career in the Lower House, namely the cookie law. Rule watchdog Actal said this week, "Get rid of the cookie law." It's easy! He is right in his own right that it is annoying, but that position completely ignores the fact that large internet companies want to secretly follow people on the Internet, to make money with it. However, D66 also wants to continue looking for a better way to make people aware of their online privacy, but with more ease of use than is currently the case. As far as D66 is concerned, people are going to give their consent via the browser. People can do that already via adblockers like Ghostery and Disconnect, but that functionality should actually be built into any browser. In the end, we will have to deal with this at European level, I know that, but I would ask the Minister to look at the possibilities of taking a step forward in that direction. I would also like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u139	Mr Verhoeven made an interesting suggestion to replace the top sectors with a new model. I can go a long way, but I am thinking of the traditional top sectors that are not directly included in Mr Verhoeven's proposal, such as chemistry and energy. Then where are these big companies? I think about Tata Steel, the ports, Shell Moerdijk, Chemelot, and so on. It seems as if they are a little out of the picture because they do not produce finished products or consumer products. I do not immediately see these sectors in the model of the four domains mentioned by Mr Verhoeven. Am I getting that right? If not, how does he see these sectors in his own model?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u140	It is surprising in itself that the SP is asking for large companies to retain a position in the top sectors policy. The idea of D66 is that you don't look at the size of a company or the sector in which it is located, but you look at the innovative power of a company, in conjunction with those four themes. With regard to these four themes, there are many issues worldwide. The Netherlands wants to lead the way in solving these issues. It doesn't matter which company comes up with these solutions, because that could be anyone, but you focus your money on that solution and you don't say they belong to this sector. Instead of thinking in nine out-of-date industries, which are actually no longer of this age and which are often dominated by large, established companies, we say: let that go, put those four global issues at the centre and let every company in the Netherlands, big or small, in any sector, have the opportunity to make its innovation proposals for that. That's the idea of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u141	That's clear to me. I mention these companies partly because there is a lot of employment, but also because according to the report of the Environment and Infrastructure Council, Rich without CO, those high-temperature sectors are the slowest going to that CO-neutral society by 2050, because of the nature of the kind of work that happens there. I came here because you have to take those companies with you. The type of investment they have to make is of a different order than to isolate a house or start electric driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u142	Absolutely. This is government policy. Top sectors policy aims to bring innovations to the market faster, better and more promising. That is the idea of top sector policy. We have now formed that into nine industries. Mr Smaling is right that you should always think about the consequences for certain companies that may be less easily able to make a transition. That's true. Now, however, the top sectors policy is largely dominated by established companies, who often work with existing or even outdated technologies, which they also want to stick to. As a result, a lot of innovative power in the Netherlands does not enter the market and does not find its way into the world. There are also interests in these big companies to stop things from happening and to stop certain innovations from happening. Over the past few years, D66 has always said: give the really new companies and technologies a chance to benefit from innovation policy and do not let that be too many of the big established companies, which already make use of many other government schemes that allow them to maintain employment; for example, EUR 1 billion a year goes to the innovation box and there are all kinds of other schemes that give them tax advantages. Top sectors policy should promote innovation. D66 really wants this to be aimed at small, fast-growing, new companies with new technologies. But it may also be a large company that comes up with an innovative idea. This is simply possible in our new proposal, but it is no longer a matter of being dominated by those large, established companies. I am not the only one to say that; also the AWTI (Advisory Board for Science, Technology and Innovation), scientists and business people say so. VNO-NCW actually admits it in its campaign NL Next Level. It is now simply time to take the step together in the Chamber to transform those top sectors, while preserving the good, but with a transformation into those world themes. I believe that Mr Smaling's concern can be dealt with well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u143	Sorry, I can't literally repeat Mr Verhoeven's starting line. The PVV has recently become the entrepreneurial party of the Netherlands and I received some compliments by phone that I was reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u144	You were complimented on my input?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u145	No, about mine, Mr Verhoeven. You started right after that. I believe you said something about being acidic in your first sentence. Perhaps you were referring to my argument in your initial sense of speech. I don't know, so I'm asking you, you said we shouldn't be so acidic or pessimistic, because it's not that bad. I find that very strange, because a representative of the people is called upon when something is not going well. If things go well, you can hardly hear people. So it makes sense that you only get complaints about the government. You're gonna make a story out of that. So it makes sense that that story is never positive. I represent those people. That is why the PVV is the entrepreneurial party; that was also the case recently. It's very easy to say that we shouldn't be so acidic and pessimistic, I don't know how you put it, but if we want to represent the people who are really in trouble here, then we'll have to tell the minister those sour things too. In your eyes it is evidently sour things; for me it is my work and my mission. We're here to do something together for these people, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u146	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u147	I'd like to get a response to that. That's what I started.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u148	Perhaps it is good if I repeat my opening phrase, because I feel that Mr Graus did not hear it properly, because he was busy receiving all the compliments on his phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u149	I already indicated that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u150	Yes, that's very good and very fair. Since I know that you are an honest man, I would like to read out my opening phrase once again, and on that basis we can continue to talk about the approach, because what Mr Graus says is important. Let me quote myself. That's unusual, but in this case it's necessary. I said, "President. It is in fashion nowadays to doom thinking and to claim that everything is going badly in the Netherlands." That's what I said. In doing so, I did not make a puppet out of it. Indeed, there are political parties who are absolutely right to point out problems that exist. I also see these problems: globalisation, inequality, digitalisation. That makes people insecure. We have an eye for that, too. However, there are parties who make it a kind of fashion or game to say that everything goes wrong, that individualization, migration, big business and such threats, and that nothing happens from the Netherlands at all. If we look at the state of the country, studies and comparisons show that things are not bad with the Netherlands in themselves. I agree with Mr Graus that there is absolutely a group of people in this country who say: stop it, I am not doing so well at all and I feel insecure. My party, D66, absolutely wants to do something about that. But we must not go any further and say: everything is going badly, there is no good future, there is no hope anymore and there is no reason for optimism anymore. Because, Mr. Graus, there is. We have a lot of potential. We have a lot of opportunities. We can bring many innovations and we can create a lot of new jobs, if we want to. Sometimes I think: if the PVV has a little more eye for that now, we can achieve even more than we could do in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u151	I have summarized it slightly differently in my words; slightly more directly. So it's not fashionable at all to doom-thinking and you name it all. I'm here to represent entrepreneurs who have complaints. That's what I'm getting out of here. I even complimented the Minister today. I also regularly do this to PostNL, the KLM, Schiphol and you name it; companies we are proud of. But we can't just compliment each other. We are here to solve problems, to get people out of the trouble that the water is to the lips. That has nothing to do with fashion, doom or whatever you put it. That's not the point. It is not for nothing that we have become the entrepreneurial party, Mr Verhoeven, that this is not for nothing. We listen to what people say and put it where you are right now. You call it doom thinking. We call it reality and we would like that minister to do something about it, together with the cabinet. That's all it is. That's it. For the rest, I'm a very positive man in private. It's none of my business. I'm good for the wind. However, we are here for the people with whom things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u152	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u153	I agree with Mr Graus. That is why I have said a number of things that absolutely must be improved. I have been very clear about this: investing more in research and innovation so that we can create more new jobs. We need to implement a more modern innovation policy so that the Netherlands can lead the world with new solutions. That's good for employment here. I would also like to mention better financing opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises. You are now quickly calling yourself the entrepreneurial party, on the basis of some research which shows that you may have obtained a few more votes there. I give you that, but D66 has been promoting and strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises for years. However, what I do not participate in, I say to Mr Graus, is pretending that there are just no opportunities and saying that the Netherlands is nowhere, that it is all going badly, that this cabinet has only made mistakes, that the Netherlands has no chance and that it is not going anywhere anymore. That's overreacting and out of line. It scares people. That's what makes people think there's no hope anymore. I therefore agree with Mr Graus that politics must find a solution for people who are insecure and who see problems. I fully agree with that, and we always have proposals for this. However, we must not go any further and pretend that the Netherlands cannot achieve anything at all, for reasons of electoral gain. That's what happens to some parties. That is what I wanted to appoint, and that is my right as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u154	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u155	I think there has been a sufficient exchange of views, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u156	I want one point removed and then we'll stop. It's about the people, isn't it? They decide, not Mr Verhoeven. I've been in the Chamber for ten years and I've always left the church in the middle. I've always complimented companies, and I've often complimented the government. If something is not going well, however, I must be able to say so, without being a doomthinker or an vinegar pisser.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u157	With all due respect, I did not hear Mr Verhoeven say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u158	He said "a fashion of doom thinking..." and literally called the PVV. Then you have not listened carefully, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u159	I didn't mention the PVV, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u160	Mr Verhoeven, I am speaking and I have just said that I listened very carefully to Mr Verhoeven. He did not say that Mr Graus was just doomed. I think it is a good thing that we conclude this point of the debate, thanking Mr Verhoeven for his input and moving on to Mrs Van Veldhoven, who will also make a number of points in this debate on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u161	Thank you. I will understand with Mr Graus to ensure that we find the middle way between vinegar pissing and optimism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u162	I call Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u163	I am also an optimist by nature, I can say. Mr. Chairman. Cooking on solar energy, heating your home with geothermal energy, driving on hydrogen or wind; that's the sustainable future we want to go to, without climate change, but with jobs and innovation. These are long-term ambitions, but that does not mean that we can say that the future will solve that for us. Last week, the cabinet came up with good news. We're almost on course for our CO2 reduction by 2020. Real profits have also been made, for which compliments to all concerned, including this minister. But, fair is fair, 40% is also paper profit. As the urgency increases, the approach weakens after 2020, while the ambition for D66 needs to be raised. Will the Minister come up with scenarios for an ambitious energy agreement 2030? Then I come to energy saving. The Minister is confident that the targets are within reach. Trust is nice, but I don't see that in the numbers yet. Can the Minister send us the calculation he's based on that it's really in range? Because when he says that, I immediately believe he has a good basis for that. And then it's not a calculation in which everything comes along, it's just the middle variant, with which we always calculate. The large industry attaches great importance to energy saving, and that is right, because it saves money. However, despite the industry's commitment to this, the commitment made to Minister Kamp to contribute to the ambitious objectives of the Energy Agreement is lagging behind. I therefore share the Minister's view that we need to make firmer agreements. That's why I submitted an own-initiative paper today. The colleagues have now received them through Parlis. In that own-initiative paper, I advocate that, by extending the Environmental Management Act, at least four more petajoules would save nearly half of what the large industry would give us to save cost-effectively. That 4 petajoule is about the same as 60,000 households. This is more than the consumption of families in the city of Rotterdam. Will the Minister respond to this initiative paper? Of course, you don't have to do that tonight. I'm getting to the built environment. The challenges are also great in the built environment. Municipalities have a good view of the areas where there is potential, but they do not have enough resources. D66 would like to make performance agreements with the municipalities and give them the tools to implement them. Give municipalities the opportunity to start project-wise using the funds available for the private market. And is the Minister finally putting an end to the gas connection as a starting point in the Act on Accelerating Energy Transition? Can it also extract gas from the energy performance compensation? As far as D66 is concerned, he really doesn't belong there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u164	I would like to join Mrs Van Veldhoven's fine work in her own initiative paper. It may be a somewhat technical question, but Mrs Van Veldhoven likes it. This is based on the Environmental Management Act and she would like to extend it. But now in the Chamber, I believe with D66's consent, we have just passed the Environment Act. The Environmental Management Act disappears in the Environment Act. With that, there are no more harsh standards in the law. I'm sure she's already figured out how to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u165	Indeed, many of the standards that apply in the environment are integrated into one law. We actually have a new system: one framework law that does not contain the standards anymore, but underneath it, General Management Measures, in which all the rules you have to adhere to are well organized. This way, as an entrepreneur, you know exactly what to stick to. This is not an initiative law either, but an initiative paper. That is because the Chamber cannot amend such a General Measure of Management itself. I want the Minister to take care of this or still in the Environmental Management Act before it enters into the Environment Act, or directly into the AMvB. Now, the obligation on all the corner supermarkets is that they must all take measures that will pay back within five years. The big industry didn't have to do that. The point is that we are now saying: they are going to do the same, because it earns itself back. It's profit for them and it's profit for the climate. That's how they can fulfill their promises. Technically, it will come under the Environment Act, and then into an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u166	In 2013 I first asked questions to the Minister in a budget consultation about the Environmental Management Act and those five years of payback. The law existed a long time ago. Now I am by nature also an optimist, but as we have not really managed to achieve enforcement so far, I am afraid that with the disappearance of a law and the shifting to an AMvB, the attention and also the chance of good enforcement is weakening. In 2013 I got support from D66, then we have a year or three side by side, but still it doesn't happen. How are we going to effectively enforce this in these municipalities if we do get it screwed up in these AMvBs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u167	Enforcement is indeed an issue here. Mrs Van Tongeren is absolutely right, but there are also very positive examples. The municipality of Den Bosch, for example, has appointed one additional enforcer, 1.0 or 1.2 FTE, and with excellent cooperation with the companies in the region, has saved as much energy as five windmills together. The business community was very enthusiastic about this approach. This shows that it is a good starting point for companies to take the right measures once you have mapped out how much you can save, and that this earns back within five years. So that helps. In addition, money has been released for 100 additional inspectors. The cabinet has decided to increase enforcement through the municipalities, through the enforcement organisations, in this case the enforcement services. Of course, that remains crucial. I fully share Mrs Van Tongeren's view that this is an important starting point and that this should not become the next paper letter, because then we have not made any progress. However, it helps that this sector has promised Minister Kamp to realize that 9 petajoule. If they do not do it with measures that render, they will have to do it with measures that may be less profitable. I think they will prefer measures that will be paid back within five years. These are the measures we are talking about. Moreover, the note also sets out precisely the adjustments to be made to which legislation. It concerns the Environmental Law Decision and articles of the Temporary Regulation implementing Articles 8 and 14 Energy Efficiency Directive, but ultimately it all comes under the Environmental Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u168	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u169	A very last small short round? Alderman Jan van der Meer van GroenLinks in Nijmegen managed this through consultation with entrepreneurs, rather than through regulations. I assume that D66 too, through the aldermen and consultation with shopkeepers and SMEs, would like this implementation. I therefore wish Mrs Van Veldhoven every success with her note.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u170	Thank you very much. By the way, my father is also called Jan van der Meer, so it's always nice to hear that name through the alderman of GroenLinks, who has passed before. I have already discussed sustainable generation with this Minister in many budget debates. This budget is the last of this cabinet and we have been told by this Minister. Thanks, but also a question, because this Minister has also agreed to return the 1 billion from the budget reserve of renewable energy to the Treasury at the end of this cabinet period. Is that money no longer needed for the energy transition? I have a second question on this subject. The agreement has always been that the biomass aid would only be granted if there was agreement with the environmental movement on the sustainability criteria. It doesn't appear to be. It seems only logical to me that the Minister should suspend the payment of biomass subsidies until such time as that agreement is reached. I'd like a response. Finally. For the future, innovation in, among other things, energy storage is crucial. My colleague Kees Verhoeven has already mentioned this as one of the main themes in order to ensure that the energy transition is carried out efficiently. This has just been the subject of an action plan of many innovative companies. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister for a reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u171	Thank you. That was exactly within the time you had indicated yourself. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union Group. He has an eight-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u172	Mr. Chairman. What does our country make its money out of? With making smart products that we can export. I know the Minister is a warm supporter of the manufacturing industry, as am I. He also knows we need professionals. I see not only this debate, but also the OCW budget treatment as an innovation debate. We need professionals, technicians and specialists. Top companies and high-tech companies that make innovations and employ smart people often don't need Minister Kamp at all. They just do it on their own, but sometimes a little support in the back is easy. That is why the Christian Union has been surprised at the fact that these little back-up measures seem to be a bit of a victim in this budget. The MIT scheme has already been mentioned. There's a big overwrite. The MIT scheme is now being cut, but innovation performance contracts are also under pressure and innovation vouchers are about to disappear. This does not leave SMEs much left. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister why the small support for the companies is disappearing. These are regulations that are so simple and fast and on which we hear so many positive noises from business. I also mention the SBIR scheme. It is very valuable for innovative societal solutions from the business community. I would like to hear from the Minister why the SBIR is not continuing. In addition, SMEs must pay a substantial premium for the use of the guarantee scheme, the SME. Why is the Minister making access to finance more difficult? We are out of the crisis, but the scheme is still very much needed for many companies. Why doesn't the Minister increase the budget reservation? Will he consider putting any extras in a snare jar for worse times? I'd like to hear a response. I have also seen amendments tabled by colleagues on this subject. I'm zooming in on a few specific topics for tonight. We already talked this afternoon about the Van Swinden Laboratory, the National Metrology Institute of the Netherlands. I have already said at that time that I believe that the public funding of the VSL cannot actually continue to decline without damaging the leading position of Dutch metrology. However, I welcome the answer given by the Minister at the VAO and his positive attitude. He wants to look at a long-term perspective for the Van Swinden Laboratory and for metrology in the Netherlands, especially on the public-private interface. I have already tabled an amendment for 2017. The budget has a cut of €500,000. My amendment calls for this austerity to be abolished. I found cover for that, too. But in the letter from a few days ago, the Minister writes about a cut of €350,000. Can he explain that further? How much of the austerity is now poemed exactly? What's left? How does the Minister see this for 2017, specific to the Van Swinden Laboratory? My second specific point concerns the DEI scheme. That is also what we discussed this afternoon. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reaction at the VOC on that energy innovation demonstration scheme and for his response to my motion on this matter. He said that extending that scheme would lead to state aid. I do not intend to force the Minister to violate state aid rules. I certainly wouldn't want that. But I do want to encourage innovative and sustainable initiatives. I have mentioned shipbuilding and chemistry, among other things. Now I would like to remind the Minister that the European directive recognises the special nature of innovation in shipbuilding and therefore allows for subsidies in that sector without state aid. Will the Minister look again at the DEI scheme for this purpose? Does he intend to consider budgeting or making available so that our shipbuilding industry can remain the most sustainable and innovative in the world? A third specific point concerns the construction sector. I've already talked about that in the AO. There are modern, innovative SMEs in construction that want and can contribute to the upcoming energy transition with an integrated vision. They should be able to develop and apply their innovations through better government regulation and innovative procurement. The Christian Union wants this to contribute to the vision of an energy transition in one generation. This is a major social task. We can see this just by decoupling homes from the gas grid. But our environment and infrastructure will change. On the contrary, the construction sector has opportunities to be the world's leader in achieving zero-on-the-meter housing and energy-producing homes. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether, as a guardian of innovation and business in the Netherlands, he is prepared, like Minister Blok voor Wonen, to stand up for an acceleration in zero-on-the-meter housing. Important for the Christian Union are Groningen and the damage to homes due to earthquakes there. It has already been discussed with other colleagues. The Christian Union believes that residents of the province of Groningen should have freedom of choice when repairing damage caused by gas extraction and by strengthening their homes. In this way, local contractors get much more chance. However, as the number of C-damages has increased, there is almost no recovery. What was described as a dangerous situation a few years ago and was resolutely addressed by local contractors, is now dismissed as safe, or gets the stamp C-damage. A lot of reports are being written and there is a lot of red tape, but at the moment there is almost nothing going on in the local Groningen economy. The Safe Living Centre has awarded the reinforcement orders to a limited number of contractors. Contractors must comply with a qualification system. According to the Christian Union, this is closing the market. Is the Minister prepared to maximise the freedom of choice and give more opportunities to local contractors in Groningen? I know the situation has improved slightly in the summer, but it can really be even more free and open. I myself will visit the Centre for Safe Living today I received an invitation, which I am very pleased with and there the complaints of the Groningers test with the CVW's view. However, I would also ask the Minister to remind the CVW that it should be fully open to local Groningen entrepreneurs. I shall conclude with the following comment. The Christian Union is shocked by recent reports about the pressure on shopkeepers to open on Sundays, including in Woerden and Houten. The APB adopted Mr Van der Staaij's motion, co-signed by the Christian Union, while a few years ago the Schouten and Others amendment. to ban Sunday coercion in the Civil Code was rejected. The government says it wants to wait until the law is reviewed and we will know more by the end of this year, but that takes so long. We now find that the compulsion to open on Sundays is undesirable. What can the Minister do for these shopkeepers between now and the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u173	The remark about the Sunday opening, or rather the Sunday closing, as the Christian Union puts it here, requires me to walk to the interrupting microphone. In the situation that has just been described, it is often a matter of private law and not of law. Could we perhaps also agree with the Christian Union on the imposition of coercion, as is happening in some municipalities in tourist areas, where shopkeepers would like to open on Sundays, which is not now possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u174	I think that Mr Ziengs here compares a situation of public law and a private law. It seems to be a logical situation in each other, but that is not the case. These are two very different things, which have different causes and routes. I wouldn't trade those things against each other for this microphone. At the moment, I notice that shopkeepers in a private-law situation are actually forced to open on Sundays. However, we want to talk about the situation in which it should be possible to keep your shop closed on Sundays. That is quite different from the situation that Mr Ziengs is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u175	I am pleased that Mr Bruins is now admitting that we are dealing with two completely different situations, one governed by private law and the other governed by public law. That was the point of my question. Now I want to ask my follow-up question. There are also cases of department stores that have shops in their own shop and that include in the contract with those shops that they do not think it is desirable for those shops to open on Sundays, whereas there is a legal possibility to do so. Those entrepreneurs want to be open on Sundays, whatever the municipality allows, while the department store in question doesn't want to be open on Sundays. How does the Christian Union view this? That's a suit from the same sheet, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u176	Mr Ziengs talks here about situations where fundamental rights are in fact conflicting. When fundamental rights collide, you always have to be very careful and you cannot say that you are going to solve it this way or that way. In such a case, it is always necessary to see what is specifically going on. There is therefore a need for tailor-made work. This needs to be carefully discussed and examined on a case-by-case basis. We cannot make a general rule for this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u177	So that motion was indeed a nonsense motion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u178	I leave that conclusion to Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u179	I call Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Her speaking time is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u180	Mr. Chairman. As I said in an interrupting debate, this Minister will go down in history as the Minister of the Energy Agreement and the Minister of Gas Decisions. I welcome this Minister when it comes to the progress made in the field of renewable energy and wind at sea. This minister has supported a plan by GroenLinks, Green Car Valley, to give up the clean car industry in the south of the Netherlands for electric cars. He has also done something about land speculation in connection with windmills. This minister is never too bad to admit he is wrong when he is wrong somewhere and the Green Left MP is right. This was the case, for example, with land speculation in connection with windmills. At first, the minister didn't know that existed, but he searched it out, admitted it, and then went on to do something about it. The same applies to the use of diesel in salt extraction in the Wadden Sea. The minister didn't know it, figured it out, admitted it was, and checked to see if that could happen safely. That's what you like in your minister. I also congratulate the Minister on his willingness to come out to receive the plan when I had a list of electric cars on the Square in front of the Chamber Building. We also opened a lot of solar panels together at a primary school in Arnhem. So much for the memories. If this minister could do one more heroic act for me during this period, I'd be even more proud of him. Indeed, no one has managed to clarify what gross and net gas production is in Groningen in a given year, a calendar year or a production year. Even Mr Schotman of the NAM promised that to me at a hearing. Net cannot be the same as gross. The only states we get about the gas extraction are the net stats. Perhaps the Minister can add that to his list of actions I can be proud of. He's got five months left. We have had a lot of debates with this Minister on gas. One of the things we have to do anyway is reduce the demand for gas. How do you do that? To that end, we have tabled a lot of motions and proposals. GroenLinks has also made a plan today: Energy transition starts at home. Comfortable living without natural gas. The plan will shortly be handed out by the messengers and also handed over to the minister. I'd like to get an appreciation from the minister of this plan, which has a lot more root than stick. D66 is somewhere in the middle between vinegar pissing and optimism, GroenLinks is a bit more on the optimistic side. I think that we can come a long way with the root so that people can get rid of gas at home, starting with, for example, the removal of the legal obligation to connect gas to new buildings. Mrs Van Veldhoven also spoke about this. We need to direct municipalities on that transition process. Ordinary people who do not follow politics on a daily basis have no idea how big these gas changes will be in their homes. We're going off the gas. GroenLinks wants it a little faster, the minister says we're going to, but he might want to slow it down a little bit, and hopefully we'll find each other in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u181	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u182	What I am very disappointed in is that the Minister has set a gas extraction ceiling for the next five years. Given the changing gas price, the insights into the earthquake techniques and the misery that the Groningers are in, I think this is one of the more unfortunate decisions in his period as Minister. Why does he not opt for a shorter period, in which insights into quantities of tremors and handling security have been processed above ground? I thought we'd be somewhere around 100 reinforced homes instead of the 3,000 to 4,000 that would be reinforced in several years. There has been an approved motion by GroenLinks to enable a dozen trial trials to be conducted in Groningen, supported by the government. The majority of the Chamber says: we would like that. The minister says I'm not gonna do that. As an argument for this, he argues that it is not customary for the government to contribute to the costs of court cases against private companies. I would like to ask the Minister: will he delete the subsidised legal aid or, for example, the Clara Wichmann Institute, which, on the assembly line, ensures that citizens can actually do so? GroenLinks has an amendment to see if we can get it done that Groningers who can't do it themselves will be able to present a number of issues, which will bring legal clarity to this difficult and dragging issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u183	Optimism is nice, but I'm going to ask the same kind of question about enforcement. Because if you don't take care of it properly, then optimism might become naivety. GroenLinks' plan mentions a ban on the use of gas appliances. How does GroenLinks intend to maintain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u184	It says: large-scale renovation. So it is not so that if one citizen decides to place a new kitchen, a female, or if necessary a male, has to come by to check whether it is an electric boiler and not a gas boiler. This is a situation in which a municipality or a housing corporation is going to renovate large-scale in a neighbourhood and take control of it. In the Building Decision, we would like to have the rule that large-scale renovations might help D66 think about how big it must be before the "large-scale" is the time to say: no gas appliances now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u185	Now I get it a little better. So it's not a ban. In fact, GroenLinks says, and I totally agree with that: we are not going to build new gas networks, where we can now move on to sustainable ones and of course the devices belong to that. If I may interpret it that way, I'd better understand what Mrs. Van Tongeren means. I was thinking: a ban seems difficult to me, because how can we maintain it? But this is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u186	D66 is absolutely right about that. It's point 5 of the plan. We'd like the first four points first. It says, for example, that there should be a local dialogue between municipalities, residents and network companies on how to do it together. These network companies are at the stake of millions of investments in gas networks. The municipalities see that in some neighbourhoods they can switch faster and in other neighbourhoods perhaps a bit slower. Of course, this will not work if citizens have all received new gas boilers or gas geysers in a large-scale renovation just before. Yes, it remains a complicated issue, but this is what we would like.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u187	Isn't it quite clear, Mrs. Van Veldhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u188	No. Very briefly, though. Mrs Van Tongeren just said: if there is large-scale renovation, then no gas appliances. That also makes sense, because if there is no gas pipeline there is no use for you either. But now she says, "I want to stop these people from buying gas appliances." Then I wonder how she intends to shape that ban. As she first explained, I understood: after a large-scale renovation we are not all going to buy new gas appliances and we are going to think about how we can incorporate that link in the Building Decision. I totally get that. But a ban on buying a gas appliance before such a renovation, in terms of implementation and enforcement, I see less easy for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u189	According to point 3 of the plan, we want to achieve this through a local dialogue. I've been to GroenLinks departments in a large number of municipalities. People are not aware at all that they will not have a gas boiler or a gas cooker for the next hundred years. So a separate point is that this dialogue, that information, is going to come. In our plan, that's point 3. Point 5 is: in the case of large-scale renovation, consider how the Building Decision can be used to ensure that gas pipes are no longer installed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u190	Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned that it is such a pity that the gas extraction decision has been adopted for five years. We fully share that. We too regret that. Will GroenLinks continue to descend the stairs in the coming years? In other words, is her election programme also taking into account that we are falling from 24 billion to 18 billion or less? Has that been included in the planning for the coming years at GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u191	Yes. GroenLinks was the first party to report to Huizinge immediately after the quake I was allowed to do so in Buitenhof, I believe she immediately wanted to go to 30 billion cub. That's the year in which 58 was won. Then, with the information we have always looked at what a reasonable number of cube is. So now we say: we want a maximum of 21 billion cube and as much as possible lower as quickly as possible. So the next year will be 21, and then we will be further downhill. This is also contained in our draft electoral programme, which will be amended or incorporated into this form by Members on 17 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u192	That's nice, but the Groningers want to really get all the butter on the fish. If a reign lasts four years, that would be four steps, I think. In any case, the SP tries to sit at a maximum of 18 at the end of the next reign. We're still talking to the Groningen guys to see if we can get that to 12. This also has financial implications for the credit transfer. What about GroenLinks? Are we gonna pull up about the same in that sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u193	Such a plan to gradually reduce is very appealing to me. Yeah, that costs money, too. That also depends on the gas price at the time. But, as I have always said, gas that is still underground, that we may be able to win much more wisely and use it for other purposes too, will remain its value. It is therefore wise in all cases. GroenLinks also believes that small-field policy really needs to be changed dramatically. That's what we've always found the SP on. For example, shale gas should not be drilled and gas should not be sought in the nature reserves in the Wadden Islands. So I would like to get a response from the Minister to the amendment, which will also come naturally. I hope that the Minister in his heart also wishes to leave as a legacy that these Groningers can get their rights. The Environmental Management Act has already been discussed extensively. I support a lot of the fine things in Mrs van Veldhoven's note in this area. So let's get that done quickly. Has the renewable energy budget reserve been almost a kind of national ATM? I tried to ask the colleague of the VVD, but apparently another spokesperson is aware of the finances of the EZ budget. Citizens account for 16% of energy consumption but households pay 55%. Next, this money will also be placed in a multi-sliding budget reserve. I would like a little more explanation from the Minister. What about the National Coordinator? What about the 60 million for the state-wide trade-foot problem? Are we sure it's gonna come back in that backup? Isn't it a little weird that you let citizens pay a surcharge for clean energy and then solve a trade-foot problem in other departments? With regard to the SDE+, the Minister said at the beginning: I do not want any bulkheads in it; anyone who can offer the cheapest will simply get it. The Minister then made several exceptions. One was wind at sea. The next one was biomass. That was not possible at first; then the Minister greatly increased the pot. Now we get a new shot for the monofertiliser, while the minister argued at the beginning: you have to establish such a scheme and then keep it the same for a long time; then it becomes predictable. I would also like to know how we can get bulkheads into the SDE+. Then why don't we get them for other more expensive techniques, such as heat-cold storage, electricity from seawater tides and large-scale geothermal energy? Then there's my annual question, which I'm sure the Minister anticipates. What about the sustainability aspect of the EZ Framework Decision, which states that all expenditure incurred should contribute to sustainability aspects? Last time, I thought that percentage was under 40. I assume that this is already higher, but if your goal is 100%, it is not really right. What part of economic growth is green growth and what part of employment growth is green employment growth? I'm on the 10 million in trade policy money. Does this trade policy money always have a sustainability aspect? This should, in principle, be done according to the framework. My next point is the ROAD and the capture and storage at the Uniper coal plant. We're going to collect and store CO there for two years. I would like to know how much that is per tonne of CO. For example, Secretary of State Wiebes said in car policy that it was far too expensive for a tonne of CO. What about the CO price in this project, in which we're going to do a lot for just a little bit of capture and storage for two years. I'm going into the ECN now. GroenLinks is an enthusiastic reader of the reports of ECN Durzaam. We have a subscription to ensure that the financing of the ECN is strong, even when it is due to start in TNO, because we are worried about that. We have exchanged this in previous debates. I am curious to see what the Minister thinks about social enterprises and whether he has the ambition to get the Netherlands to score higher on giving social entrepreneurs opportunities in the Netherlands. The Thomson Reuters Foundation says we're in the 25th place. Compliments to the Minister for not paying any money to solve the problems at Thermphos. I regret, however, that the Minister does not say about the Borssele nuclear power plant: if you look all over lifetime, it is the cheapest solution to shut down the power plant as quickly as possible. For GroenLinks, the long-term energy transition remains one of the key issues that every government in the world, including the Dutch, needs to solve. We have now achieved a slightly larger reduction of CO on paper until 2020, but what happens after that? When will there be a policy for afterwards, or will the Minister simply transfer it to a next cabinet and a next generation? The National Energy Exploratory shows that CO emissions are barely falling with current policies after 2020. That can't be what this minister wants, can it? It is certainly not what GroenLinks wants and it is not what GroenLinks wants to pass on to our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u194	I was tempted to walk to the interrupting microphone, because, as Mrs Van Tongeren rightly pointed out earlier, my speech was of course very focused on the entrepreneur, the baker, the butcher, the vegetable farmer, the detailed list, in short: the entrepreneur who helped us through the crisis. Mrs Van Tongeren, of course, makes a whole number of the point 'energy'. According to my list, we have had more than twenty debates on energy in the last year, but if Mrs Van Tongeren keeps her speech, I wonder if she has any idea what the overall budget of Economic Affairs is. I would also like to ask Mr Verhoeven how GroenLinks views the top sectors policy. Does she think that this policy can be pursued or, in response to Mr Verhoeven's question, does she think that it should go in that direction? I'm really looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u195	I was wondering if I had managed to lure the VVD out of the benches with another question. My compliments on that. Top sector policy is a very good subject. I have had a number of debates on this. Our party does not think that the top sectors policy in this form is sensible. We have also drawn money from this in previous counter-budgets. We are particularly looking at the top sectors of the future, such as Green Car Valley. We also broke a lance for Brainport Eindhoven. The Environment and Infrastructure Council concludes that the size of the importance of the old mainports has been somewhat optimistic. Those old mainports are fossil mainports. The Groninger gas is fossil, the port of Rotterdam mainly runs on fossil fuel, just like the port of Amsterdam, and that already applies to Schiphol. Its importance for the economy will decrease, in favour of knowledge and innovation. A very good opportunity for this is clean transport, because the Netherlands is fantastic. Eindhoven University of Technology is the only university in which automotive technology is part of the ICT department. It's all about innovation. We believe that the top sectors policy should either be abolished so that other policies can be replaced or at least transformed so that all expenditure under the top sectors policy has an aspect of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u196	Then I'll come back to my first question. I asked what the total cost of the Economic Affairs budget was. I'm curious about that. You just asked me about numbers, so I guess I can do the same to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u197	You can ask me about the number. I can't reproduce that exactly. But I asked you about concrete policy articles, not just one figure. I asked how you felt something was being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u198	We're not gonna hear each other out, but I was just curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u199	You have found a question that I do not have the answer to. I know that a very large part of the budget is indeed energy-related. The EZ budget is the recipient of gas revenues. The SDE funds also run through the EZ budget. There's real billions in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u200	You can look it both up for the second term, so you can answer each other. I would like to thank Mrs Van Tongeren for her contribution. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals. I would like to welcome her very much. After being absent for some time, we're glad you're back. You had a good replacement in Mr Wassenberg, but it is good to see that you are here again in full ornate. You have a speaking time of ten minutes in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u201	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the warm welcome. I'm glad I'm back. One does not discuss new lands without consenting to lose sight, for a very long time, of the shore. You're not gonna find a new country unless you accept that you're losing sight of the coast for quite a long time. This is a statement by the French writer and Nobel laureate André Gide. That is how the tradition sometimes doesn't want to be correctly quoted and distorted to: One does not discuss new oceans unless you have the Courage to lose sight of the shore. You're not gonna find new oceans if you can't take the courage to lose sight of the coast. Anyway, they're wise words. No matter how you quote them exactly, both variants point out that if you want to find new ways, it will take a little bit of effort. Without the courage or the willingness to let go of old certainties, you won't get there. That's not easy for a fool. One of the founders of the economy already knew that: John Keynes. The difficulty, he said, lies not so much in developing new ideas, but in escaping from the old. Let that be just what it takes. I'm taking a hold of the consequences of old ideas about economics. Old ideas about economy made us dependent on fossil energy. It is polluting, it keeps terrorism going, it plunges our own Groningen into misery and it runs out. Free world trade is the flagship of the old thinking of the economy and is pushing vulnerable people into debt slavery, increasing hunger in the world and attacking natural resources, which is so great that our children and grandchildren will soon be empty-handed. And I don't even have kids. The amount of greenhouse gases we emit in our economy warms the earth at such a rapid rate that humans and animals will not be able to adapt to the major changes that it will bring. Weather extremes such as drought on the one hand and heavy rainfall on the other are already being felt in agriculture, for example. And then we haven't even talked about the physicist's fact that you don't have to explain to a Dutchman: when the water rises, the country goes under. It's just three random modern problems of an outdated economy. Anyone who likes a challenge is born in a good time. You might think: pick one, bring together the best minds, put your shoulders underneath it, solve the problems and do the same with those other issues, ready. With us on the group we always say: yes, it was just such a party. For what if the cabinet really does that on the energy issue, for example? Let's assume that for the point I want to make. The Minister already feels him coming: we have a little bit to do with energy policy. But it'll come later. Suppose, even for now, it works. The cabinet is clearly committed to the energy transition and also boxing for each other. There is 100% clean energy, finally an end to the fossil age, hooray. Really, we too will be very happy about that. We're gonna do a pretty good job of that, too. We hang out the flag, lift the minister on our shoulders and walk a polonaise if necessary. But the question is, are we there? No, the answer is unfortunately. This summer, Jason Hickel found in The Guardian that, fortunately, consensus has finally emerged and action follows on from the fact that fossil energy is causing us incredible problems. He also wrote that growing awareness marks a crucial change that we cannot overestimate. However, he also wrote that he could not escape the impression that we were missing the point. No matter how important clean energy is, science is clear. It's not going to save us from climate change. The point we're missing is that the huge challenges I mentioned have one common underlying cause. It is that our economy is driven by an illusion: the dangerous belief in the existence of infinite growth. Our economic system is driven by a fundamental error of opinion that we will have to correct. It is not very difficult to restore the failing logic: infinite economic growth on a planet that does not grow along is simply impossible, even when we talk about green growth. Minister Kamp announced that he would not return as Minister after the elections. That's an opportunity. That's not ugly, really. We see very often that directors make surprisingly sensible statements after their ministerial position. Oud-CDA Minister Veerman stated after his period as Minister of Agriculture that the intensive farmer in the Netherlands is dealing with a dead end. This system, he said, is jammed; we import the feed, we export the animals and we sit down with the shit. Okay, he said "muck," but that's the same thing. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs will certainly agree with that. Former Minister for Economic Affairs, Van der Hoeven, one of the predecessors of this minister, found that, after her presidency, the energy policy she had itself pursued was unsustainable because the transition to clean energy took so long that the temperature on earth would rise by six degrees. So I do not rule out the fact that this Minister is able to show similar wisdom once he has finished ministering. After all, he's smart enough. But why would he wait? Wisdom comes with the years, but in this case the expression seems to be: wisdom appears when the ministry disappears. We would regret that. We challenge the Minister to already acknowledge that an economy that drives an illusion is in no way sustainable or, much simpler, that infinite growth on a finite planet is simply impossible. Recognition of an error or problem precedes a solution and is a first important step towards change. We need all our political leaders and leaders for that. It's just more convenient if they help shift course while they still have power and not until they finish ministering. Change is difficult in two ways or actually for two types of people. It's hard for the people who really want it. They say they want to change, but that you need courage, creativity and perseverance. And it's hard for people and parties who actually don't want to change secretly, because that affects their own interests. Those are parties that are nice and warm in the old economy and feel threatened by newcomers. A well-known tactic of such parties is "mostribbling." Organisationalists say about this: that is the ability to not do what is expected of you in a change path without being noticed. It's kind of like saying yes and doing no, but very smart. It's kind of like: I'm for change, but not really. The idea behind it is, of course, to stop the change you are not waiting for, as long as possible without really noticing it. In the energy file, the most successful misriggers are perhaps the coal boys who, with millions of subsidies, green their dirty coal plants by burning up biomass and who so far, at least so far, have very successfully relied on the argument that it would be very counterproductive to shut down their coal plants, because there are even more dirty ones across the border. That is the main argument we can refute by banning coal power on the Dutch electricity grid. The Animal Party would like the Minister to work on this. A tried and tested strategy of master ribbed is to sit in all kinds of preparation groups to help shape the change. They do so as positively as possible about the announced change, say yes to everything and then do nothing. The energy-intensive industries have understood this like no other. They are very enthusiastic about the energy agreement, but then they oppose obligations and commit themselves to a few lean petajoules of energy savings that should have been achieved long ago if the Environmental Management Act had ever been enforced. Then they don't live up to that deal. Of course not, because they have no interest in it, it costs money and there is no obligation whatsoever. And that's how they managed to escape the change dance for a few more years. Of course, they knew that there would still be legal savings obligations from the outset. But the change has been postponed for a while and the shareholders are satisfied. Moreover, their commitment makes it more difficult to establish firm commitments. So they have also influenced the future changes with their saying 'yes' and 'no'. Mostribbling is a persistent feature of many players in energy policy, including the government itself. Unfortunately, a large part of the tax money intended to help our country from fossil to sustainable is being used to keep the bio-industry in our country on its feet and to eliminate the huge surplus of manure that is supposed to lead to a substantial reduction in livestock. Anyone who wants to meet a miscarriager, take a look at intensive farming. Mr President, I will use a little more time than I have indicated. I'll fight that in my group. I'll win that fight. Gas made from manure, we now call it green. In this way an additional 150 million will be allocated to help Friesland Campina solve the problems it has itself caused. Not only does that cost a lot of money, but it does not solve any environmental problems. The manure we make that so-called 'green gas' really does not come from heaven when manna falls from the sky. This has been preceded by a highly polluting and energy-wasted industry which, on all fronts, is in direct contradiction with any sustainability idea you can come up with. And yes, if you know that prior to the manure so much energy has been wasted that you could have kept 5 million Dutch households running, you have to deal with that waste and not put the heavily controversial residual product manure into a heavily subsidised digester and then yell: hurrah, we have green electricity! Miscribbling seems to be a kind of natural phenomenon when change is needed and established parties consider their own position more important than profit for all of us if we actually shift the course. It is important to recognise and eradicate this phenomenon. This applies to energy policy and, in particular, to the policy of promoting innovation. The top sectors policy is firmly rooted in the old interests that use expensive innovation money to defend their own position. It will not surprise anyone that this is most visible in the top sector of Agri. The Party for Animals wants the innovation budgets to be used for real innovation in favour of a sustainable economy. As far as we are concerned, the top-level sector policy must be brought to the fore. In the evaluation we read about this, we all saw words such as innovation contracts, road maps, cross-sectoral cooperation projects and top teams to drive innovation. The conclusion is that the top sectors policy is certainly not dirty of jargon that should give the impression that much is happening, whereas not much is actually changing. I'm going to my last point. I also read in one of the recommendations that the government is advised to fund the crossing of the Valley of Death. Of course, that immediately reminded me of the pop sector. Last summer in the Netherlands a quite successful band was active that warned that the rock 'n' roll is threatening to disappear in the Netherlands. Then I thought we shouldn't have that, and I need to talk to Minister Kamp about that. The sharp edges are threatening to go off. This minister is not primarily about pop policy. The Party for Animals believes that this is also culture. Music is the art form that hits you the most, said Nick Cave in an interview with Ear. I want to contradict a lot of people, but not Nick Cave. OCW has the primacy, when it comes to pop policy, but this minister also does something about the pop sector. When bands have opportunities abroad, he says he invests in exports. That seems to me to be a healthy export. The question is whether the arrangements that the Minister has for this are working properly and whether they can no longer be done. Does the Minister feel like an investment fund for, for example, the export of successful Dutch pop music? I brought him, traditional, CDs, from the aforementioned Death Alley, which is a nice variant on the valley of death. You can see by the cover that they're there for the sharp edges. It's old-fashioned rock and roll. I hope the Minister likes it. And Monomyth. That's my favorite Dutch band. They have shit on all genres. There you see how innovation can really work. Don't worry about the old trails. Let go of everything you know and come up with new creative ways yourself, then it becomes beautiful. I'll give them to the minister through the messenger. I say have fun with it and go for the pop sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u202	You're also asking for a response from the minister on those CDs?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u203	The tradition is that in the second term the minister lets us know what he thinks, that he gives some kind of review, but that can also be done later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u204	I waited for a moment to say to Mrs Ouwehand that I am very happy to have her back. I have also come up with a question, but the objective was to be able to say that. I think we're all happy to see her again. She talked about energy saving in industry. I submitted an own-initiative paper on this issue today. It may be short before this budget debate, but I wonder if she has had an opportunity to look at it and what she thinks of the principles of that note. Can it possibly count on the support of the Party for Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u205	Sure. We thought it was a fantastic idea. We thought: look, if the energy agreement does not deliver enough, Mrs van Veldhoven will take action, so support for the proposal and thank you very much for the warm words of welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u206	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk of the Kuzu/Öztürk Group. He has signed up for a six-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u207	Mr. Chairman. It is important that we have a healthy business in the Netherlands. That's why DENK comes today with a five-piece for a healthy company. The first disc is that we need to stimulate starters. The second disc is that we need starters to grow and thrive through good lending. The third disc is also important. Unfortunately, there is ethnic profile in the Netherlands. That's what we have to do. The fourth disc is that small entrepreneurs should suffer less from regulatory pressure. The fifth disc is that at some point life ends, but also entrepreneurship. We think it is important that we can achieve a good business transfer, so not euthanasia for the entrepreneur, but a reincarnation. I'll run the discs one by one so the minister can respond to that. The first disc is the start of the company. Starters must be encouraged, because they are the future. DENK is therefore for a €750 voucher for all start-ups, a voucher that allows start-ups to buy duty-free services, such as coaching, research, buddies and so on. This could, for example, be paid out of the top sector policy money. The second disc is the growth of the company. Companies need credit to invest, to grow further. Unfortunately, the banks in the Netherlands often abandon small entrepreneurs. We are at the bottom of Europe in terms of lending. That is unworthy of the Netherlands. That is why DENK has two proposals. Firstly, we want independent evaluators on credit applications, so that everyone is treated equally and so that every credit application is carefully considered. Secondly, we want a national entrepreneurial credit bank, a bank dedicated to small entrepreneurs. How do we intend to finance these proposals? We do that by increasing the banking tax. If the banks fail in their social task, they must feel this financially. Banks are sensitive to financial incentives: if you hit them in their wallet, they will join you quickly. The third disc is mainly about justice and discrimination. There is not only discrimination in the labour market, but also in the entrepreneurial market. There is not only ethnic profiling of citizens by the police, but also of entrepreneurs through all kinds of inspections. We get a lot of distress signals about that at DENK. Unfortunately, entrepreneurs with a tan seem to be picked out and tackled too often. Muammer's supermarket is controlled more often and more strictly than Stientje's and the shorama shop more often than Jan Patat. Unfortunately, in the case of invitations to tender and quotation routes, bids from colourful entrepreneurs are rather discarded. We're getting those signals. What picture does the Minister have of this? Does he agree with us that this is fundamentally unjust? Does he think that everyone in the Netherlands should be given equal opportunities and treated equally and that there should be a level playing field? Is the Minister prepared to investigate ethnic profiling in the entrepreneurial market? Then we can see if there's a problem and if so, how big that is. Discrimination on the labour market has been denied for many years by many parties here, but it has now become apparent that it does exist. The same applies to ethnic profiling by the police. That too has been denied for years by many parties here, but unfortunately it exists. Now, while it's not too late, let's intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u208	I want to respond to this. I know a shwarma farmer or a shwarma entrepreneur, whatever you want to call it. In the south we call it fries farmer and shormaboer; this is not meant to be insulting, before you fall over it. That shormaboer currently owns one of the largest airlines in the world. That's a Turkish man, Atilay Uslu. It has started with a shoramatent here and has become one of the best airline entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. I know the best man and I respect him very much. He's never had a problem with anything. I know so many shwarma farmers who don't suffer from anything. I want to have said that anyway. I would also like to say something about the ethnic profile of the police. If Mr Öztürk looks at Searched, he can, with all due respect, see from the reconstruction drawings that nine out of ten people are of certain origin. Then it's perfectly normal for the police to profile ethnically. The cops don't do that because she hates those guys, but because the odds are pretty big.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u209	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u210	I'd like a response to this. This is a very important point. There is no one here. I know almost all Members of Parliament personally who are racist or who are in favour of discrimination. Everyone here is against discrimination, but ethnic profiling is a completely different story. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ondanks dat de politie …]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u211	Mr Graus, with all due respect, we are dealing today with the budget for economic affairs and not the budget for justice. I would like to say a few words about this, because Mr Öztürk himself mentioned it. Finish your point quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u212	What if the police are wrong in 70% of the cases and the odds are 30%? Mr Öztürk, with all due respect, but if you and I have one night to look at Search Enquired, you will see that it is perfectly normal for the police to profile ethnically. That's it. That's it. That's it. Basta. End of exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u213	Mr. President, do you know what the PVV is suffering from? She suffers from denial, from not wanting to see. Of course there are successful entrepreneurs. I was a secretary of an entrepreneurial club. I've seen all these successful entrepreneurs up close for years. In addition, however, there are entrepreneurs who suffer from discrimination and day in and day out say to us: it's just not right; I want to contribute to the Netherlands, but I'm being hindered; I'm being hindered by having to pay more taxes and I'm being hindered in my innovation and my functioning. The Minister acknowledges that in answering the questions. Inspectors receive courses and training to prevent ethnic profiling. This is just an endorsement by the Ministry. The second important point is this. The PVV always comes up with the example of Search Requested. If Searched Chamberlains were to investigate, PVV Chambermembers would be shown every time. The chance of getting caught would be great. If you look at the crime rates and the stuff with the PVV room members, you should only investigate PVV room members. If you think you can solve problems with that mentality in the Netherlands, you should be at the PVV first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u214	Before Mr Graus says anything, I would like to address Mr Öztürk. I think this comparison between Searched and MPs is completely flawed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u215	He's asking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u216	That's not how it works here. We are having an orderly debate here...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u217	He's asking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u218	No, Mr Öztürk, we are having an orderly debate here. That is, listening, responding and answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u219	I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u220	That means we make the equations we make carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u221	That's up to you, but I'll make the equation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u222	It's up to me as chairman to guard order. I do not want to have a debate here on Search Requested in the course of the examination of the Economic Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u223	Who started it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u224	Mr. Graus, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u225	Mr President, I share everything you say, but the speech and all the interruptions are about ethnic profiling. If someone is ethnically profiled, it will be Black Piet, partly because of the DENK effect. It is now about what was said about the PVV. That's all I want to respond to. There may be people who have done things that aren't right. They either cleaned up or quit. You name it, but action has been taken. Nothing's happened to anyone who's sitting here right now. Also about me things were written by the national tabloids that turned out not to be right at all. Go fight against lies, but they're not true. You should stop talking about this, I say to Mr Öztürk. I'd really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u226	It would be very good if the PVV came out of the denial phase and saw discrimination in the Netherlands. That's what the numbers say. That's what international investigations say. That is what the Ombudsman says. Everyone says that. Let us be honest about this for once. There has been a small investigation in Eindhoven by a number of PvdA council members. It also showed that there is ethnic profile. Let's get on with our story.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u227	I suggest that you bring this issue to the justice budget. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u228	Ethnic profile with entrepreneurs I bring in here. I'm going to the fourth disc for a healthy business. It's about control pressure. Small businesses are going under rules. Big companies can hire people to do that. Small businesses can't do that. The baker around the corner should have a lot less control pressure than Albert Heijn. The hairdresser is much less than Unilever. DENK would like to see creative solutions to make small businesses more flexible. Finally: the fifth disc. Unfortunately, after the start, after growth, after the problems that need to be overcome, the final phase of life comes too often. The fifth disc is about the end of the company. If a company wants to stop, there is often no successor and the company has to stop. That hurts an entrepreneur. He has put his soul and salvation into the business and sees that it is all lost. Besides, it's all capital destruction. This costs the Netherlands 80,000 jobs every year and over 3 billion euros of turnover losses, year in, year out. DENK therefore wants more support, better funding and a better matching between the old and the new owner in business transfers. I'm rounding up. This was our five-year-old drive for a healthy company. We'd like to hear the Minister's opinion. Minister Kamp is almost at the end of his term of office. That's why we want to challenge him. Make your own five for a healthy company, Minister. Why don't you let your officials take a good look at that? That would be a nice farewell gift for the Netherlands. Not only do you focus on the big companies, but also on the small entrepreneur. With a disc of five of his own hand Henk Kamp gives his inheritance to the Netherlands. Don't forget the DENK slogans. More credit and fewer rules, then the Netherlands deserves much more money. Stop discrimination and stimulate business transfer, then the Netherlands gets real entrepreneurial strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-10-25-tweedekamer-24.u229	This brings to an end the first term of office for examining the budget of Economic Affairs. If the timetable remains the same, the Minister is expected to start answering the questions put at 4.30 p.m. on Thursday and to start the first term on the part of the government. I would like to thank the Minister for coming and for his input in previous debates. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contributions.
