ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u1	I see Mr Omtzigt standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. In the course of the work, the SP asked the government to send the documents made public under the WED to the Chamber. I have added that I would also like to have the correspondence between the Dutch Government and the European Commission. The government says we don't. We simply asked the government to take a decision on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution. That is the legal right of the Chamber. The Minister may then also give access to a part of it confidentially. If it's in the interests of the State, he can choose not to. However, the government has not opted for Article 68 of the Constitution, but for the WOB. We're not journalists. We're MPs. My question to the government is whether it intends to make these documents available to the Chamber immediately. We can then start this debate in 15 minutes. We then arrange the disclosure on the basis of the rules we have here between parliament and government.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u3	What are you proposing, in concrete terms, apart from the point of view of confidentiality?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u4	I want the government to decide on the documents requested on the basis of the rules that exist between government and parliament. Those rules should be maintained as President and are set out in Article 68 of the Constitution. Now the WOB has been tested and the government has said, for example, that we do not release personal policy ideas. That is not a ground for refusal in Article 68. However, it may be a basis for making the documents confidential for inspection; that is up to the government. I call on the Government, on the basis of the Constitution, to take a decision to send these documents here or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u5	I understand, but we also have a debate now. In fact, you want those documents before the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u6	Yeah, that's why I requested an extra settlement. You asked me to make the request here. I would have done it an hour earlier. I'll just say this to my colleagues. However, I also understand why an additional regulation was not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u7	The government must respond to requests from MPs. That seems to me to be the affair. I do not support the request to start the debate later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u8	As far as I am concerned, we can also start the debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u9	I'll support the request. In almost all the wobbled pieces, parts have been wiped away. I just can't imagine that all those scraped out pieces are personal policy ideas. Even if they were, they would also be part of the discussion. We must base our opinion on this in order to have a proper debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u10	I'm also looking at the other spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u11	I said this afternoon in the order of business that I do not want any confidential information at all. I think we can put the questions to the Minister in a moment and we can start the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u12	Can the Minister respond briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u13	I thought you were in a procedural debate where...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u14	Well, a majority agrees that written information should be provided. I understood that the proposal to start the debate is not a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u15	If you count the seats, there is a majority who would like to start the debate. I would ask you, as President of the Chamber, to find a way of enabling the government to bring these documents here as soon as possible so that they can be involved in the debate. In this way, after this debate, we do not need to start another procedure on how to deal with it. The information has also been requested for this purpose. Again, Article 68 of the Constitution does not have the exception for personal policy views, but it does have the possibility of a partial confidential interpretation. In the speech it will soon become clear why this is important in order to understand what has happened on two points. First of all... Was there State aid? Has that been discussed? Second. Why has no advice been requested from the Council of State? That is in those documents, or at least I can see the body language of the Minister who can be in it. Of course, we don't know that. I wish I knew, because then I would not have to say it so firmly; the Minister is right again. But for this reason, we would have liked to have seen these documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u16	You're asking me for a response, too. The discussion on Rule 68 comes back every time, not only here but also in other debates. That's what I'm talking about, including those involved in government. But I'm also looking at a practical solution for tonight. The debate is scheduled. I'm gonna ask the Minister if he can respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u17	Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt mentioned two types of documents. He mentioned the change between the Dutch Government and the Commission on this subject. In addition, the fixed policy line, which I cannot and do not want to deviate from, is that it would really harm the interests of the Dutch State if we had to release it in future. Then the European Commission would no longer want to have informal and early contact with the Dutch Government and representatives of the departments. That would really hurt us in our contacts. That's a firm line of action. The second point concerns a WOB request about all internal mails between Tax Department employees and employees of other departments of the Ministry with the Tax Administration on the tax treatment of coco's. I have big problems with that, because I think I should protect the officials. I am open to the political decisions that have been made. Has there been any talk of State aid risks? Sure. Has there been talk of a balance between debt and equity? Sure. Has it been discussed whether this should only apply to banks and insurers or to all companies in the Netherlands? Sure. But other than that, I'm really gonna stand in front of my officials. I'm approachable. If people think that mistakes have been made, they must have me. Let us not try to make internal, official e-mail changes part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u18	Then I suggest that we proceed with the debate. Speaking time is four minutes. The number of interruptions is up to three, and then in two. Then that's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u19	Mr. Chairman. It is good to discuss the exchange of information, the wobbling and Article 68, but I think it is also important to have the debate now. I'll start with that. The debate is named after the message that banks contributed to the law on coco's. GroenLinks' group does not find it strange that the Dutch Association of Banks is consulted in a legislative process that concerns the banks. That is what we do with the environmental movement when it comes to environmental legislation. This, of course, also generally yields 350 million for the environment as quickly as 350 million for the banks, so nothing is really going on. What we are wondering is whether the Minister has also contributed or left it entirely to the banks. That's a question. The term "coco" means contingent convertible bond. That sounds exotic, and it is. It has converted the name of a bond, a debt loan that can be converted in case of problems, and then suddenly it has become equity. It's changing shape. Very creative. It's so exotic that the AFM advises people not to invest in it unless they really know. The deductibility of those coco's is because the banks wanted it. Not the cabinet had asked for this, not society, not small and medium-sized enterprises because of lending, not the citizens, but our large banks. In that the NRC was a bit right: the bank asks and the minister turns. The coco is intended to strengthen the capital position of banks. In this way it can be done in a relatively advantageous way, which doesn't hurt banks too much. After all, it is a risky investment, on which a high coupon rate is paid, but you can subtract it again, so that saves a lot. The minister writes that if the coco had not been there, the banks would have withheld more profits or issued more shares. My question to the Minister is whether it was necessary to hand out this gift to the banks. The most important question that arises here concerns the way in which this whole process is carried out. In this respect, I must say that there is no reference to substantive considerations in the information provided by the government. The most important letter, dated 16 December 2013 from Secretary of State Weekers, one and a half sides, I read in several ways, but it doesn't say anything, except that it's actually a technical change, let's take care of it; we'll do that as soon as possible and then we'll be done with it. A substantive policy weighting has indeed been made. In the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, this is something that should also be transparent for the Chamber. If there is a clear discussion within the department and with the European Commission and the banking sector about a State aid risk, I think it is only logical and a good use that the Minister also reports to the Chamber. He may make his calculations, but he must report it. The fact that it is then hidden in a financial collectible law and that it has been decided and passed that it should not go beyond the Council of State is, in that light, even more agitated. Had it passed by the Council of State, we would at least have been informed about this risk. The Council of State would have put its finger on it. Nor have we been informed of the budgetary consequences. No matter how you turn it, there's gonna be $350 million in it. I would like to know from the Minister whether the coco's were equally popular before that time and whether the 350 million was spent at that time. I have the distinct impression that it isn't. I fear that in this way the work of a Member of Parliament, certainly one of the opposition, will become something that holds the balance between that of a scribe and a detective. That's not what the Chamber's for. The Minister may make his assessment, but he reports it to the Chamber so that we can have an insight into it and decide whether we want to discuss it seriously with the Minister. I'm disappointed in this. That is the central criticism of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. This is not the way the Minister should deal with this Chamber. I would very much like the Minister to take that up. I would also very much like the Minister to promise some improvement in his attitude on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u20	That's a flaming argument from GroenLinks. This proposal was treated by the Chamber as a hammer piece at the time. I wonder whether Mr Grashoff, or one of his fellow party members, also read the answers to the questions raised on this proposal at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u21	I think that's a very good question. It's okay to ask if we've been sleeping. If Mrs De Vries asked me this outside this Chamber, I would honestly tell her that I think we should be more alert in future. Of course, it's a little weird. It's kind of weird that we need to be trackers in the central information system. In the initial letter dated 16 December 2013, the Secretary of State for Finance, Weekers, put all signals on the green. It would be nothing more than a technical change. It was also treated this way throughout the whole further approach. That is at the heart of my criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u22	Mr Grashoff remains with his flaming speech, but he has indeed been taking a nap. If he had read the note following the report, he could have seen that there were budgetary consequences, that they were compensated again because it was unusual and that it was EUR 350 million. Now he says, "It was a tracker game." But it was just in the papers under the Tax Collection Act. I think he's blowing very high off the tower towards the minister. I wonder if he shouldn't have been more careful in the work he should have done himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u23	I would like to stick to the point that I have already made: Members of Parliament should not become trackers. The information to the Chamber must be complete from the outset. And the method, the use of a tax collecting law which by its nature is purely technical in nature for something that clearly requires a policy-based consideration, was not common. It is not customary not to send such a thing to the Council of State. The Minister deliberately made that choice. I can't say otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u24	I understand that this should have passed the Council of State, but the Minister agrees with you. The PvdA Group also believes that all this could have been done a bit bigger, so I admit that. But the fact that we were put in front of the facts and that it was hidden, I find wrong qualifications. We've just had legal treatment in the Chamber. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance did not make any contribution to this at the time. Because that is a fraction of only four people, I can understand that, although it was quite interesting because it was also about CO emissions from passenger cars. Moreover, it was a response to a motion by Mr Van Ojik, so it was probably relevant to see what the government would do with it. So I understand it all, but if your group didn't even hammer this issue, didn't make a contribution at the time and didn't even sign up for the debate, would it not be entirely reasonable to judge it so harshly?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u25	In this contribution, I have deliberately tried to separate these aspects very well. In response to the interruption of the VVD, I have already said that we can also look at ourselves and, of course, be more careful. I'd like to say that. However, it is not appropriate to choose this procedure for such a legislative proposal. That is and will continue to be our criticism, and that criticism is serious. A ruler isn't supposed to do it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u26	You keep blowing pretty high off the tower. I myself made the most extensive contribution at the time, because I knew it was big money and an important law. I then weighed the answers and then decided to agree. If you had read the answers to my questions, would you have decided otherwise? Or would your group have voted differently? He has agreed to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u27	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u28	Then you've really been sleeping, haven't you? You voted for a law that you're against.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u29	At the heart of my speech is that we should not be scribes and trackers and that we should have all the considerations on the issues on the table transparently. Then a fraction of four people here can also do an excellent job.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u30	Mr. Chairman. There is a great deal to be said about the coco's. I have also expressed my reservations about this, but the reason why we are here is the way the law has been established and the way the Minister of Finance has informed us about it. Coco's are loans that are converted into shares when banks are in danger of getting into trouble. Therefore, since it is so-called risk absorbing capacity, it is right that it should be regarded as own funds. Now the behind-the-scenes have lobbied heavily, and they have arranged for themselves to be able to eat off both sides. The coco's are own funds when it comes to meeting the buffer requirements, but they are suddenly debt when it comes to using the interest deduction. And that's going to bring hundreds of millions of euros to the banks. After all the wobbled pieces, thanks to NRC, we now know that the influence of the banks on the laws is very great. Entire passages were found to have been written by the banks, led by ING. Now my problem is not that it is being consulted with banks, and it is possible that the law might even make it better technically, but this is not a technical adjustment at all. It is a huge tax advantage towards the banks, it is a gift of no less than EUR 350 million. To put that in perspective, we sometimes have debates here about security, about access to the rule of law. Then it's about a few tens of millions. There has not even been a debate on this 350 million gift and there should not be too much publicity about it. It was hidden in a letter of amendment of a technical tax law to the Chamber, without making it clear that this was expressly requested by the banks. It did not go to the Council of State and it was not submitted to the European Commission to examine whether there might have been State aid, while there was clear doubt about the Ministry. In an internal letter to the Minister, the choice is made to explicitly limit the scope to banks in the legislative text. In this choice, it says, there is a significant State aid risk. In that case, the Minister insists that consideration should be given to the possibility of making deduction possible for non-financial institutions as well. But if there is no cover for that now, then we will have to limit it to the banks. In this document, in which almost everything has been wiped out, there is also talk of a major State aid risk. That's the one sentence that didn't go away. Then there will be a discussion within the Ministry on whether or not there is a State aid risk. Senior officials are very concerned. Why wasn't Brussels informed? The Minister writes that there have been informal contacts with the European Commission, which would have made critical comments. So there were several contact moments and what exactly were those comments? Did they say that it is simply state aid? Why did the Minister not inform the Chamber of the major involvement of the banks in this process? The lobby also concerned the way in which it had to be communicated to the outside world. Why does the Minister go along with removing references to bank benefits? Finally, I would like to comment on something that is indicative of the whole story. That is a note from a senior official to a minister saying: it is a question of whether a separate legislative proposal would not draw too much attention to this provision, which could be seen as a concession to the banks. This is significant, and this makes it seem that it was intended to keep this legislation under review.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u31	One of the main concerns of the SP focuses on consultation and co-writing with this law. That is, of course, the right of the SP. But I do have a question for Mr Merkies of the SP. Does he sometimes take direct motions or lyrics from lobbyists and use them here in the Lower House?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u32	No, I always write my own lyrics. I'll consult with people. Of course, it happens sometimes that I submit a text, in the vein of: what do you think of this? I'm fine with all of that, by the way. I'm fine with the Minister doing that, too. That is what I have just said in my speech. I'm fine with consulting with the banks. In fact, these are texts that have been taken over literally. But what is even more important is that what is being taken over does not relate to the technical improvement of the bill, but rather to conceal, for example, that a clear advantage is being given to banks. I really don't think you're gonna be able to take that kind of lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u33	Mr Merkies is now bypassing my question. My question was, did your party ever do it? There are literal motions, but also texts that we can find, which have been introduced by lobbyists. Then I think it is a bit like double standards when you say: I am fine with us as SP doing so ourselves, but we do not agree with the cabinet doing so in other cases. That's double standards, and I don't think you should want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u34	I do not know what motions you may be referring to from other colleagues, but I have just said that this is not my problem. The problem is the type of business that is being taken over. I wouldn't have such a problem with it if it was said: okay, you have a good input and this fits in better with the practice. I do have a problem with texts in which people clearly think about how to cover things up and how to hide it from the European Commission when it comes to the risk of state aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u35	I actually have a very simple question. When I listen to his speech this way, Mr Merkies is not terribly enthusiastic about the fiscal advantage of coco's. Why did the SP Group vote in favour of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u36	It has been a hammer piece, so it has not even been voted on. That's because it was hidden too. It was not only the case that it was hidden in a letter of amendment, it was stated that the bill contained mainly technical and editorial changes, but it was also the case that it came into a tax law, which was dealt with by other spokesmen. Of course, it varies by group, but in my case it did. The other spokesperson read only: they are only technical and editorial changes. So it's not in the law itself, but it's in a letter of amendment, which also contains a lot of other things. Well, then it's hidden, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u37	Unlike the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which did not provide any input, I can also imagine that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has contributed and asked a number of questions. If you provide input, I assume you will also read the contributions of other groups and the answers to them. It's a law. Legislation is the most important thing we do here, Mr Merkies. It just said there was $350 million involved. It said it only applied to the financial sector and not to other companies. Then I wonder: what is Mr Merkies doing with 15 seats in this Chamber, when he makes so much noise and is so against the banking lobby, but does not even request a debate in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber, but agrees to the bill as a hammer piece? Isn't that incredible for a people's representative?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u38	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Nijboer for giving me the credit that we have indeed contributed. The PvdA did the same. Those are the two parties that have contributed... I hear that the PVV and the VVD have also done so. We even asked for the amount. I think that amount has been mentioned in response to our question. Quite a while, I think, six months later, a letter of amendment has been made. So bear in mind that the bill states that it contains mainly technical and editorial changes. Then it comes to other spokesmen and there it is hidden somewhere. It says, however, that it has no budgetary interest. Then I can't blame those spokesmen that they didn't see anything going on. If the Minister had been honest, he would have just said: this is going to bring the banks 350 million and cost me 350 million. That's just what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u39	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to support Mr Merkies, because in response to questions from me about the letter of amendment, Mr Wiebes clearly stated that this bill is budget neutral. So I, too, have been put on the wrong foot. I assumed this was budget-neutral. The Minister can explain where that 350 million comes from. Before the summer of last year, this minister thought for a moment to push through a small douchebag of the banks. The note of amendment to the low-policy Tax Collection Act 2014 launched a small deduction for the financial sector. Budget-neutral, I told you. It can't have a name. That's why it was a hammer piece. What are cocos? It is another exotic product from the vein of the creative minds of the banking sector. It is a loan and capital in one, a profit doubler: the tax advantages of a loan and at the same time strengthening the capital, without watering down shares. Who's making it up? It is a complex and risky product that nobody understands and to which we owe the banking crisis. Six years ago the coco didn't exist, and now we have 100 billion in coco's, 25 billion in the Netherlands alone. A real hit. That cocos are dangerous, we could see last week when Deutsche Bank got into trouble. The coco's lost 30% in value in one blow and interest rates increased, even in Spain from 8.25% to 18%. Are we already seeing the omens of a new subprime coco bubble? You can see him coming. The need for banks to strengthen their capital position is something that everyone agrees on, but why should this be facilitated by tax? Are the banks really that pathetic? They're making mega profits! Today we saw it at Rabobank: 2.2 billion profits, a 20% increase in profits! They pay out mega-dividends and pay mega-salaries and bonuses. What do you mean, the banks are pathetic? Why doesn't the bank just spend extra shares or hold the profits? I have tabled a motion to that effect before, but the Minister does not want to do so. No, the banks opt for shorter balance sheets, less credit, securitisation and coco's, with all the risks involved, and the Minister facilitates it. The Minister takes for granted the fact that the Treasury lacks 530 million in tax revenue. The fact that the banks have contributed to this bill is a state-of-the-art policy. It's gotta be possible. The fact that ordinary companies cannot deduct interest is a pity for them. After all, they also do not have to meet the very strict capital requirements that apply to banks. The fact that this violates the principle of equality is not relevant, because a bank is not an ordinary business. The Minister looks forward with confidence to the possibility of state aid, because everyone is doing it. I had hoped that it would finally end with the support to the banks. Haven't we learned anything? If banks need to strengthen their capital, they simply need to issue shares like any other company or hold profits and not pour out toxic complex products on the market. Products that are deductible as well. There's gonna be accidents. The tax advantages, the complex products, the risks, the salaries, the dividends: everything remains the same. They smoked a cigar, drank a glass, did and pee, and everything stayed the way it was. Chapeau, Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u40	Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, this debate is not about the fiscal aspects of the so-called'spoken' and it is difficult to explain coco's. As far as we are concerned, the debate on the coco's has already taken place under the Tax Collection Act 2014, although perhaps you should not call that a discussion, because it was a hammer piece at the time. The VVD is also in favour of tax deductibility of coco's, in particular because of a level playing field for our banks in Europe. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are discussing the influence of the lobby. The VVD considers it important to hold consultations and consultations with industry, for example, but also with other organisations involved. A law must also be workable and enforceable. The VVD considers it important that these kinds of consultations are clearly reflected in the documents, whether it is a law or a letter of amendment. Is the Minister prepared to include any consultations in future in the explanatory memorandum to the letter of amendment? The VVD would like to mention the indignation about the involvement of the banks in the coco law, to say the least, remarkable. Everyone can bring their opinion or position to the attention of politics. Everyone can stand up for their interests: business, consumer organisations, interest groups and citizens. In fact, we have 17 million lobbyists in the Netherlands and they can all be heard. In the end, it is up to politics to weigh all of this, determine whether and what it does with it and ultimately decide. Lobby is not only good or acceptable if the content of it happens to suit you. Left-wing parties are fine with the influence of lobbyists if the content is their position. I never hear left-wing parties complaining about the Greenpeace or Environmental Defense lobby. In the case of the GroenLinks and PvdA climate laws, Greenpeace made the same proposal. Also in the case of motions, texts are sometimes taken over literally. Minister Dijsselbloem also shows two faces. In an opinion article in the NRC in January 2015, the Minister still strongly denounces the banking lobby. He talks about "massive resistance" and "wanted and factually incorrect arguments." By the law we are talking about, the same NRC finds that the bank is asking and the minister is running. A colleague of mine just said the same thing. How should the present case be seen in relation to that opinion? We've seen this a few times before. You sometimes wonder: who is the real Jeroen Dijsselbloem? Is it the Jeroen Dijsselbloem of opinion, or the Jeroen Dijsselbloem of this law? Lobby's fine with the VVD. Lobby could be useful, too. In the end, it is always up to politics to weigh everything and make the decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u41	I have nothing against lobbying. I also always say that I hope that the lobby of the environmental movement would be equally effective and would always produce these kind of gifts of 350 million. Unfortunately, that is still not the case and that is a pity. However, does the VVD not feel with me that the lobby has been very close when the director of ABN Amro, a good old acquaintance of ours, calls with the Minister whether it can be a bit vaguer, because otherwise they might have a little problem with the Dutch Bank or with the European Commission? Doesn't the VVD also have the idea that a bit of a border has been crossed?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u42	I think the Minister has given clear answers. Proposals have been taken over from the banks. A number of proposals from the banks have not been taken up at all. That's how it should work. In the end, the Minister must make the decision and then submit it to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u43	This means that the VVD considers such a very intensive, almost sitting together on the lap of the top of the bank in the Netherlands and the Minister of Finance to be completely normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u44	I don't think this minister sits on the lap with the banks. However, I have just mentioned another example. That was from GroenLinks himself. GroenLinks thinks it makes sense to come up with a climate law while an environmental organisation has previously made the same proposal. But GroenLinks does not think it is logical that there should be consultation with banks and that some of the concrete proposals made by these banks should be taken on board. I believe that this will mean double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u45	It is known that the VVD is the party of the banks, but the VVD used to be the party for business. I do not hear Mrs De Vries on the principle of equality. Doesn't she think that if you arrange something like this, a coco for the banks, that should apply to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u46	On the contrary, I have looked at equality, at equality in Europe. I've been watching how it's handled. I believe that the banking sector is one of the few sectors where we impose capital requirements as we do. I think the PVV here is a bit typical. I was recently addressed in a debate by Mr Van Dijck about the level of capital requirements, and then he said: we have to think about this lending, we are not doing anything about it. Now he's saying exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u47	I'm not saying the opposite. I'm just saying we make a demand to banks. 3%, 4%, 8%, I don't care. I'm worried about the loan, though. However, business demands are much higher. When you get there with 3% equity, nobody wants to invest in your company. So the banks already have very low requirements vis-à-vis business and are now being favoured by this law, because of its tax deductibility, and business is not going to be. That principle of equality should appeal to the VVD. Equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u48	We are looking at this equality, including within Europe. We look at how things are arranged there, at what other countries do with the deductibility of those coco's. If the PVV had been such an opponent of this proposal, it should have just voted against the law. She didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u49	Mrs De Vries does not seem to find it a problem that 350 million went to the banks. Does she find it a problem that these banks made suggestions, for example to remove the reference to banks? It was about advantages for banks and that "banks" had to be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u50	I believe that before that time there was already a question of deductibility of hybrid capital. In that sense, Mr Merkies, I do not agree with you. Proposals have been made. That is clear, and it is clear from the documents that have been submitted to us. I'll come back to you again. You're literally taking over motions. We have an e-mail exchange in which literally a motion from a lobby club is taken over by the SP. It'll just be put to the vote. You don't think that's a point. So that's what I really think about double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u51	Mrs De Vries is avoiding my question. It was about the banks making suggestions. It was about the advantages of banks and they should not be given too much publicity, so it was proposed to take out the benefits of banks. The fact that the banks do that is one thing. However, the Minister then takes over. What does she think of this practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u52	The Minister has made a number of considerations. He has accepted a number of proposals and some have not. You're literally taking over proposals. Completely, without even changing a comma. Then I think you're really measuring with two sizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u53	Now I'm being personally attacked. You're not talking about me personally, by the way. That's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u54	I'm talking about a colleague of yours from the SP. We have mail changes, that literally motions have been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u55	However, Mrs De Vries keeps avoiding my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u56	I think I answered that very neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u57	Mr. Chairman. I want to discuss three things today. The first is the legislative process, the second is the state aid risk and the third is the underlying problem that we should be talking about, namely the tax rules on debt and equity. I shall begin with the first point, namely the way in which this law has been implemented. The banks have interfered with this law at the highest level. The Minister says that the involvement of external parties is normal and even important in the drafting of legislation. I agree. It is important for ministries and politicians to know what is going on outside of the cheese-stolp in The Hague, but then it must be transparent. Earlier today, this was discussed in the debate on the impact of corporate lobbies on legislation. The influence must be transparent, just like the positions. Then it's clear to everyone. D66 together with GroenLinks submitted the Open Government Initiative Act. The proposal is to actively disclose letters and e-mails from companies, organisations and other stakeholders, while respecting the privacy of individuals. How does the Minister view this proposal? Back to this law. ING received a draft of the law. ING's comments on the legal text have been processed literally on parts. Precisely for this kind of influence on legislation, there is an official procedure, namely a public internet consultation. Anyone can comment, which is reflected in the lobby section in the explanatory memorandum to the law. In this way, it is clear and transparent how the law has been influenced by external parties. Unfortunately, that did not happen under this law. Moreover, the Council of State is not involved either. D66 asked in the written round of questions whether the Minister felt that it should have been otherwise. The Minister then admitted that the legislative process should have been different. My group welcomes this confession. I come to my second point, namely the State aid risk attached to this law. I ask the Minister why he has chosen not to inform the Chamber about this. And why was the measure not notified in advance to the Commission? In the meantime, the Commission itself has asked for more information on this law. I wonder when we can expect a response. Following the Commission's request for information, has the Minister received any signals that banks are concerned that the Commission might consider this to be state aid? There is much to be said about the legislative process followed by this law, even though the Chamber has simply agreed to it. In the current system, it is also not surprising that coco products are deductible, because that is true throughout Europe. However, I think the current system itself is crazy. That brings me to the third point, which is the underlying problem that we have with the tax rules to promote debt. We have talked about this before. Interest on debt is deductible, while dividends on equity are taxed. That makes it unattractive to retain own funds and it subsidises debt. It is important that we treat debt and equity more equally in the Netherlands. A motion by Mr D66 on this subject was, unfortunately, voted away earlier. No agreement could be reached in the tax reform. However, that is no reason to give up. We know from NRC's WOB procedure that the Minister feels the same about the substance and that more parties in this Chamber do. My question is therefore whether it is not time to work on this. If not, I'll have a motion ready for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u58	Mr. Chairman. Politicians write the law, not the bankers. That's how it's supposed to be. If you look at the extensive mail changes and the influence that has taken place, you can see on the one hand that bankers can have a lot of influence over this law and on the other hand you can see that the minister has always decided what he wanted or did not want to take over. In the end, that's how it's supposed to be. However, the PvdA Group believes that the lobby should be much more transparent and that consultation procedures should be more accessible to everyone. That was not the case in this case. Mr Koolmees has just said something about this and the Minister has also said something about this in the answer to the parliamentary questions. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and my colleagues Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Bouwmeester have taken the initiative on this point. If a new law is made, everyone should be able to participate, regardless of whether he is simply an interested, an interested person, an employee of a bank or a member of an environmental organisation. Everyone should be able to know that the influence process is starting. That's gotta be public. Then there must also be a public record of the input of the people who have contributed. And finally, what the Minister or the Secretary of State has done with it must also be public. In the case of legislative proposals, there must be a lobby section. I would ask the Minister to do the same in future. It is quite different whether we are getting a tax law or a law on the financial sector, as we have seen in this example. Finally, I would also like to ask the Minister that this is a suggestion from my fellow Members, Mr President-in-Office, whether he is prepared to make his agenda public.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u59	More than a year ago, I made a number of proposals on the lobby, partly on the basis of a recommendation from the De Wit Committee, which felt that the banking lobby was large. At that time, I proposed adding a lobbying paragraph to legislative proposals. Why did the PvdA Group vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u60	I do not know exactly how it was voted in all the votes after the time of the De Wit Committee. The first debate was all about the conclusion of that committee, so I don't even know if I was in that debate myself. However, the PvdA Group has proposed this lobby paragraph, so it is certainly in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u61	It is strange that this was proposed five years ago, but nothing is being done about it. I had that debate with Mr Nijboer. Mr Nijboer himself decided to vote against the motion, but it simply said: let us introduce a lobby paragraph. That's all it said. Why did Mr Nijboer vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u62	Mr Merkies must not make me lose sight of the fact that I do not have all the motions and reports from five years ago. I am in favour of a lobbying paragraph in all legislation, as well as in finance legislation. If Mr Merkies is tabling a motion this evening proposing the introduction of a lobby paragraph, the PvdA Group will simply vote in favour of it. I'll tell you now. He can put that motion all in his own name. If he wants to, he can take it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u63	That motion was voted not five years ago, but in 2014. There has also been a debate on the lobby this afternoon and a motion has also been tabled. So the PvdA can vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u64	Sure, we will. If there is exactly what Mr Merkies has just said in that motion, we will certainly vote in favour of it. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u65	We know Mr Nijboer as a warm advocate of higher capital requirements. That's common knowledge. The question is, of course, how banks should strengthen their capital position. Do they have to do that through stock issues, through profit deductions, through the shortening of balance sheets or through coco's? According to the PvdA, what is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u66	I am a big supporter of more equity, of more real hard equity. This can indeed be achieved through profit retention, with fewer dividends being distributed. It can be further achieved through cost savings, but also through the issuance of shares. I am in favour of all three of these methods. I am a little less in favour of a reduction in the balance sheet, even though that is a method which politics cannot prohibit either. So these are the methods. I'm really in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u67	So basically the PvdA is against the instrument coco's. This instrument, which is now being facilitated, is a very attractive instrument for banks. This will enable the banks to strengthen their capital position, as Mr Nijboer would like. At the same time, however, these coco's create a perverse incentive to take on as many loans and debts as possible, and that is precisely not what Mr Nijboer wants. In other words, the PvdA is against the hybrid instrument of coco's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u68	I am in favour of the taxpayer no longer paying for the misery of banks. In my view, hard equity is the most important thing. Mr Van Dijck is quite right. I don't want 4%, but much more. That's really what matters to me. But even then, there may be moments when a bank gets into trouble. I believe that, in such a situation, it is not the taxpayer who should be responsible for what happened to ABN AMRO and to SNS.... but investors who buy bonds, including coco's, should be the loser. That's what cocoes are for. So I really am a big supporter of hard equity. I am one of the biggest supporters in the Chamber, along with other colleagues. On top of that hard equity, there must also be other debt securities, which are also written off if things really go wrong. Those are cocoes. That is what we agreed on in Europe. In that sense, I am in favour of coco's. However, I think that hard equity is more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u69	This is your last interruption, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u70	Now we see those coco's taking a giant flight. As I said, there is 25 billion involved in the Dutch banks alone. Can the PvdA go along with my demand that the hard capital requirement of 4%, which is now on the table, should not be filled in with coco's? Maybe we can get together at that point. Mr Nijboer is talking about keeping the taxpayer out of the wind, but 350 million tax breaks are now being granted through this deductibility. That will be at the expense of the taxpayer. In fact, if the banks had simply paid tax on this, the 350 million would have been paid to the public by means of a reduction in the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u71	I fully agree with Mr Van Dijck when he says that these coco's should not replace own funds. They must be on top of that equity. I do not think that 4% equity is enough. That is the first demand, but as far as I am concerned, we are going even further to make these banks healthier. I therefore very much agree with Mr Van Dijck on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u72	I would like to continue on the same point. Indeed, Mr Nijboer says that he does not want a crisis in a bank to be passed on to the taxpayer. An instrument with a high coupon, the coco, is now being created here. It is therefore a high-risk product. That interest is deductible. Does Mr Nijboer simply agree with me that this is also a form of passing on to the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u73	I agreed with what Mr Koolmees said. I always try to look very closely at how we make legislation here; you have read that in my input. I am in favour of taxing the financial sector more, I think it is an undertaxed sector that does not pay VAT and can contribute more to our society. In the election programme we were talking about 1 billion bank taxes, it was 300 million and it became 600 million in the government agreement. So we doubled it. I think that is the method of increasing the burden on banks, and we have increased it by 300 million. As regards debt and equity, you will see that I have co-signed Mr Koolmees' motion. I really think it should be more balanced, but not through a detour of more logical legislation than it is today, but through society as a whole, as for SMEs. For homeowners, we've already done that, and I think that's the method. I try to approach that fairly structuredly, but not to make the bite snap impossible in a system in which it fits. If you want to tax banks more, it is not the coco tax but the banking tax that is the way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u74	Whether it's left or right, it's a sloppy 350 million. That's quite an amount. To be honest, Mr Nijboer's plea has nothing else to say. He had seen it all, he was alert, much more alert than me, my compliments for that, but he should have voted against at that time. It would have been consistent at that time to tell the Minister that he had to come up with a structural solution rather than with this gossip of the deductibility of the coco's. That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u75	I find GroenLinks increasingly difficult to follow. We have a huge banking crisis in Europe. Fortunately I find GroenLinks on my side when we demand higher buffers, hard equity. I also think that GroenLinks is on my side when we say that investors and not taxpayers should pay if things go wrong. That is why these coco's have come, the first capital to be called upon when own funds are not enough. Those instruments did not exist and are spent. Now GroenLinks wants to maintain a special arrangement that does not fit. I don't think that makes any sense. I am in favour of favouring equity, for higher buffers, both in legislation and tax. I am also in favour of less subsidising debt, deductibility of debt. We finally got this in the proposals for the Tax Plan in a major fiscal debate, and you know how that landed. I'm in favour of that. I will support another motion for that today, unless the Minister agrees that that is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u76	The last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u77	It is becoming increasingly unclear to me what Mr Nijboer actually thinks. Does he think this is essentially equity? If a bank gets into trouble, it's converted into shares, so you take the risk. Does he think there's nothing you could jerk off for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u78	No, because I would have voted against that law. In essence, it is debt and therefore it is deductible. I am not in favour of this whole system, but if you have it, it is reasonable to treat it like we do almost everywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u79	Then Mr Nijboer simply agreed to a gift of 350 million to the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u80	No, I agreed to the law because I thought it was reasonable. I think the SP is putting on a really big pair of pants for a little failing co-legislator. The SP is now very against a law that she was before. You explained that a colleague then read the consultation or I know what happened; you didn't pay attention, okay? Surely the First Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists is only there to judge and review the laws very precisely? He also agreed to it. There's still a lot wrong in the financial sector. There's a lot else to do. The bank buffers are still far too low and the 4% that is ambitious in the Netherlands is still too low in Europe. We're gonna have to go up if we're gonna get this sector healthy. Is there diversity? On the supervisory boards and boards are all men of about the same age, all of whom have similar backgrounds. This is not a sustainable earning model, but also bad for the diversity of a company and the ambitions that have been expressed. That's gotta be different. What also needs to be changed is transparency in international banking regulation. There is now, in fact, going to be a European banking union that we have established, but who is cooking it for? What influence mechanisms play there? Which banks have an influence on that? What is the role of central bankers? What is on the agenda of the Basel Committee? Who's gonna decide that at the end of the day? What is the influence of politicians? In the end, I believe that politicians should not only write the law, but should also prescribe it for bankers. That's how it's gotta be. That is also why I invite the Basel Committee, fortunately with the support of colleagues, President, here in the Chamber to discuss it. We must then take action on the important issues of banking regulation. What do we think of cocoes, aren't they becoming too big a risk? I agree with Mr Van Dijck that things are going very quickly and will be very large. That could be another risk in itself. We must set limits to that. We must also be able to do this as a political one. I ask the Minister to include that agenda in the bank letter he promised to the Chamber. If he doesn't take the agenda, I'll try to get it in afterwards. In any case, this is the agenda for the PvdA. Fourthly, and finally, I have a very broad agenda, Mr President, but you cannot put everything on the agenda in such a four-minute debate, because the separation of utility and business banking, the Liikanen opinions, really is back on the agenda, because that has really gone too far behind the horizon, when it is necessary, useful and necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u81	The final question, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u82	Mr Nijboer is now pretending that nothing has been covered up. We have received a whole package of wobbled pieces. I think he just didn't read it. I shall therefore read a very small part. "Although the text before us today".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The House of Representatives has already asked for this. A choice will therefore have to be made." It even says, "We can't keep diving." This is just one of many examples. Has Mr Nijboer read these examples? Does he agree with me that there is indeed a cover-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u83	No. I'm not falling for it, Mr President, but I think it's quite a testimonial to blame me for not reading the documents. Of course I've read them all, literally. I have also examined exactly which suggestions have been taken over and which have not. I have checked whether the Minister himself has given direction or whether he has been guided by ING bankers. In the end, I draw the conclusion, I feel the political judgment, that the Minister has given direction and made suggestions to bankers. I do think others should have that opportunity. I would be ashamed, Mr Merkies, if I dared to make such a remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u84	Mr. Merkies...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u85	This is really the very last interruption. Then you really have to get an uncomfortable feeling about that, don't you? I've been talking about diving. Mr Nijboer did not go into that at all. This is not about scuba diving or anything, it is about diving to inform the House of Representatives. What's his reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u86	All considerations in the notes "a few lines have been painted away" are outlined. How do you inform the Room? There's only one way to do that. We get one letter, one letter of amendment. The Minister may or may not go to the Council of State. All these considerations, all the pros and cons, you've been able to read in the notes. The Minister finally made a decision. That's what happened and that's how it's supposed to be. Whatever's supposed to happen is that anyone can have influence. That didn't happen here, and I want it to be different. Whatever's supposed to happen is that there's gonna be a lobby section. That has not happened here, nor has it been agreed with the Chamber, but I want it in the future. Definitely things have to be different. The Minister should also have gone to the Council of State, I agree. You're sitting here doing a little bit about suspicions. We have just had some sort of arrangement on internal mails from tax officials. Mr President, do you not think that every legislative proposal should be accompanied by all the internal e-mails sent in a department when preparing a proposal? That would be really unworkable and undesirable. In fact, that is not at the heart of the matter either. The only core is then a little confusion, saying that it is all dark, even though it is not dark at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u87	I give the floor to Mr Grashoff for his final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u88	Now it seems as if the whole discussion, for example on state aid, took place in all transparency when we had to take decisions on this, but nothing is less true. How can Mr Nijboer put it this way? It's on the table now, but that's after things have been wobbled, after we've dived in and after investigative journalists have started working on it. Now it is on the table, but Mr Nijboer cannot say that there was nothing wrong; it was simply deliberately muffled away.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u89	I read the law. I understand exactly what this is about, and I have also asked those questions. I've asked what the effect is on other companies. The PVV also asked for this. I asked whether there is a level playing field between the financial sector and other companies and, if not, why this is not the case under this law. I have asked questions about the size and the budgetary loss. I have asked all these questions, and I have been given answers to them in the note relating to the report, which Mr Grashoff himself admitted, and of course that cannot be included in this. Surely things could have been better, as I indicated. I think everyone should be able to have influence. I think it should have gone to the Council of State. I think there should be a lobby section in the future. Those are all things that have to be better and different, but now to say: we knew nothing at all and I didn't know what law I voted for... I knew it, and I voted for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u90	Now Mr Nijboer turns it into such a general soup that he can always get something out of it that is true. It is quite clear that there was an internal discussion on how to deal with state aid risk. And that just hasn't been reported to the Chamber. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u91	I do not remember exactly how the Minister said it, but he indicated that there was a limited State aid risk but that he felt that everything was mainly possible and that other countries did. Mr Grashoff was able to take note of this, but he did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u92	Mr. Chairman. We have had a debate on post-tax. All internal documents showed that the government knew about it a week earlier, but she was still surprised. We had a debate on the remuneration of ABN AMRO. We had a debate on the NS Summit. We have discussed the report on the Fyra, in which the Minister of Finance said: if the Chamber wants everything from now on, she can have it. A detail had just fallen away, namely that a number of trains had to be sold before the Netherlands got something back. It is not by accident that I just referred to Article 68 of the Constitution. This includes the handle for obtaining information. That is why I would also like to ask the government when we will get the note promised by Van der Steur in the famous debate on the relationship between the WOB and Article 68. When are we gonna get information again? Because one thing this minister has learned: he does a "Van der Steurtje," but to make sure I can't show it, the pieces are not black but white. That makes a little less impression, that's right. It is not the intention at all to read all internal e-mails from the Ministry; Mr Nijboer is right about that. It is intended that the essential documents contained in the explanatory memorandum to the letter of amendment should be included and were not included. We received the letter of amendment on 11 June and a report was submitted here on 13 June, after more than six months behind the scenes on pastry products. I have a few questions about that. On 30 April there was a discussion with the European Commission and on 22 May it appeared that the officials Mr Merkies reminded me that there was a significant risk of State aid. The letter of amendment was submitted on 11 June. The word "state aid" is not included and there is no reference at all to European law. It can't be. That means we have to go through those e-mails, which should just be in the explanatory notes on the laws. Then we can check that here and only then can these kinds of amending notes be dealt with within 48 hours. That is at the heart of the problem we are talking about. Does the Minister recognize that, too? Does he now promise to get well and can we just get those documents to see, like he promised? Did the Commission warn in any way of State aid on 30 April? Has the proposal that has been assessed with the Commission changed compared to the proposal that has been submitted? I would like an answer to that. The Minister wrote in writing that he should have gone to the Council of State. That's right, so that's what we're gonna do in the future. I'm asking the Minister how we can ensure that. I would like to know the current state of the state aid investigation. Has a formal investigation been opened or are we still engaged in informal discussions with the European Commission? What are our chances now? That question is why this debate is now taking place. Are we at risk of implicating hundreds of millions, or are we not supposed to reclaim them? The CDA group was also a little surprised to read in the documents that the Dutch provinces bought 600 million in coco's. That is a special form of public investment. Perhaps the Minister will be able to tell us what the actual loss is at the moment. According to the documents that have gone to the European Commission, about 4 billion of coco products have been spent. The PVV just mentioned 25 billion. How big is this amount right now? What lessons does the government learn from this coco file?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u93	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u94	Mr. Chairman. One of the members of the Chamber held up a document. I also wanted to hold up a document. The NRC has paid a lot of attention to this issue. Honor to whom credit is due, they have revealed the scandal. But the scandal is framed as: ING writes the Banking Act on Finance. This is the Banking Act, ladies and gentlemen. It is one article, which has been found in a letter of amendment. I'll get right on that. That legislative process did not go well, of course, but this is the Banking Act, where according to NRC ING held the pen. Here's the explanation. It states clearly what the nature of the facility is, for which instrument, and that it is primarily intended for the financial sector. Four pages of explanation, which cannot have escaped the attention of the Chamber. Having said this, let me first say something about the character of coco's. Is it new, is it different, is it something, is it dangerous? Then I will deal with the very relevant discussion on debt or equity. I shall then turn to the question of whether or not it is state aid, the estimate, the method of production, the lessons we learn from this and how we deal with the lobby. Let's talk about cocoes first. Are cocos new? Yes and no. It's a hybrid instrument, but that's not new. Basel III defines the capital requirements that banks must meet. Under Basel III, requirements for this type of hybrid instruments for banks have become stricter. The employability, i.e. the extent to which they may be included in capital requirements, is also limited. The requirements of the instrument have therefore been strengthened and the amount that can be included in the capital requirements framework is limited. In the past, under Basel II, they were allowed much more generously and they were also tax deductible in our law. It is also important to realize that it is not new in that sense. In the risk-weighted assets, it may count as additional core capital up to 1,5%. It's also maximized. It should not contribute more than that much to the whole. In addition, you have first-quality core capital, so not additional. That used to be 2% and that has been increased to 7% to 12.5%. Why am I saying this and why am I looking at Mr Van Dijck? Because it is very popular in the Netherlands to say that nothing has changed. I have heard a leading economist at Buitenhof say: nothing has changed with the banks, the banking balance sheets and the capital requirements. But the requirement for core capital was 2% and it has been raised to 7% to 12.5%. I sent a letter to the Chamber this week because the debate in the Netherlands is so easy to say that nothing has changed. As a result, the debate is really starting to derail a little bit. I like debate, but let us make the facts a starting point for the debate. I have sent a comprehensive letter on this, not with new policies, but with a description of what has happened and what needs to be done. The name "coco" is exotic and so there must be something going on with it. They are indeed risky instruments. That's exactly what we need. Shares are also important. Therefore, it should only be used as a supplement to the core capital. It can only count for 1.5%. Of course, shares count in the real core capital. Therefore, the leverage ratio is important, so that it is a solid package together. Coco's gonna lose if things go wrong. If individual banks in financial markets suddenly suspect that something is going on, it will certainly have an effect on the confidence in the instrument coco with that bank. We've seen that in the past few weeks. Then you can say there's something wrong with that instrument. No, there's nothing wrong with that instrument, but there might be something wrong with that bank; that's what the markets think. This is exactly the type of mechanism we want. If we want the financial sector to be healthy, then investors in the financial sector must be aware of the risks in that sector. That risk awareness was far too limited for the financial crisis. Why not? The government will save the bank anyway. Those days are over. If you invest in a bank now, in shares, in coco's or in senior unions, you may be at risk of getting hit if things go wrong. In the case of coco's, that's possible even before a bank comes in resolution. Just "going concern." If there are losses to be suffered, the bank simply has the ability to pay the coupon, say the "interest rate" on the coco, or to pay less. If a given trigger is hit and the bank no longer meets its minimum capital requirements, there must even be a write-down of the value of the instrument. It's called "risk-bearing assets." That's this. We need such instruments in addition to equity.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u95	The Minister says that we need these instruments. Of course, that's just the question. We saw Deutsche Bank get into trouble last week. It seemed for a moment that Deutsche Bank was not going to pay the interest on the coco's. In Spain, with the Banco Popular Español, interest rates on the coco's increased to 18% and the value of the coco's decreased by 20%. In other words, the Minister pretends that it only happened to Deutsche Bank, but all of a sudden confidence in the coco's was lost throughout Europe. People invest in cocos. They are tempted by a high interest rate of 6% to 7%, but when things go wrong somewhere, you suddenly panic. We're just trying to avoid that panic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u96	We're trying to get investors to take risks, so they're not just gonna run away with profits in good times, but they're also co-responsible for carrying the loss in bad times. We do that in different ways. It also depends on whether companies still meet the requirements and whether they are open to business, what we call "going concern." If they are in resolution and do not meet the requirements at all and are put under curate, then the capital instruments are used in a certain order of a bail-in hierarchy. The coco is a risky instrument. It has been said that the AFM has said that one should not invest in it. Indeed, I would strongly advise retail investors not to. You have to have a clear view of how risky the bank is where you buy coco's from and when you trigger it, so what the minimum requirement of capital is where the bank can just turn off the value of your coco. You need to know all that. The average retail consumer will not know or understand that. Professional investors do understand that, and very well. Indeed, financial markets respond to information or rumours about the reliability of and problems within banks. To anyone who says that the rules are too strict or the instruments are not good, I say: I am very sorry, but these instruments carry a risk. The sector itself must raise its risk, as must the financial markets. That's exactly what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u97	I'm afraid of panic and the perverse stimulation of high interest rates. People can start thinking: ING is a solid bank and 7% coupons should be possible. It can be triggered by Deutsche Bank or by any other, and ING can get into trouble again. That is the kind of waterbed effects we should try to avoid. I wonder why banks don't just do like any company, namely issue shares if they want to strengthen their capital position. At Delta Lloyd we see how difficult a stock issue is and how much resistance there will be. Just spending shares should actually be the line. So water those shares and raise capital. Or take the Rabobank today with that 2.2 billion: hold on to it, don't spend a dividend and pour 2.2 billion into your equity. That is the way it can be!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u98	It's all happening. Banks have kept a lot of profits in recent years. Banks have raised hundreds of billions of extra money. I am talking about the whole of Europe, about the whole process of starting the banking union. There have been large capital issues from large banks in Europe. And indeed, for a defined, limited low in the capital structure, there is the possibility to spend coco's. Cocos can contribute to risk-bearing rather than other capital instruments. So that's interesting. And yes, risk has a price. This means that investors will only step in if there is a return on this. Risk and return must also be related to each other. One of the problems in the financial sector was that it was not. There were also high returns in the financial sector in the past. Only when things went wrong, people weren't able to cope with the loss. What is more, the government went for hundreds of billions in.......................................................................................................................................................................................... We need to get rid of that. Are there any contagion risks in this? Mr Van Dijck also referred to this. He said, "That goes wrong with one bank, and then the house of cards collapses." That too is regulated. Banks may have only a limited amount of cocoes from other financial institutions on their balance sheets. If they go over that, they have to put 100% capital against it. You won't, because that won't be interesting. That's not an interesting investment. I realize it's all technique and it's complicated, but we have to cross that fundamental bridge with each other. The Chamber has always supported me in my commitment to bail-in. What is the principle of bail-in? That investors in the banks are going to carry the risks. Do investors like that? No. So they have to get used to that, too. And if there are bad reports about European banks, then you can see that investors are reacting now. People say that bail-in isn't good. No, that bail-in's fine. It also shows that investors in all countries, not only in southern Europe, are beginning to realize something. They say, "Wait a minute, I now have capital instruments, such as shares, bonds and coco's in banks, which can mean I'm gonna lose money at some point." And then they start asking critical questions. Then they ask: is that bank actually going to be okay, does that bank have its business in order? Transparency is extremely important. If banks do not better understand and account for what portfolios they have and what risks there are, then the market can also react wrongly to rumors. So here is really a movement going on that will make the banks healthier.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u99	The Minister gives a very good and clear exposé on the degree of riskiness of coco's. I also feel that no one here has said, perhaps apart from Mr Van Dijck, that the instrument of coco's as such would be wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u100	I'll just get my notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u101	That's very good. You do that. It's about the fact that they're tax-deductible for the bank. What the Minister is describing here is a capital form that has all the characteristics of equity. It's risky, the coupon can be withheld, the value can fall, it's clearly loss absorbing capacity. It has all the characteristics of equity. The creativity, the exotic of the coco, is in it that a trick has been devised to see it as a debt. That is what the Minister has been involved in, and that is what the criticism focuses on. There is equity and not debt, but it is treated as debt. That's a present, and that's not necessary. Why did the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u102	I'll get back to all those questions that were asked in the first term. My first subject was the character of the instrument. If Mr Grashoff says that no one has talked about it, then he has been in another debate. It has been said: they are toxic products, they are dangerous products, they are risky products, people are deceived with these products. That's all been said. If you follow the social debate, read the NRC and look at Buitenhof, you can also see that this is how it is talked about. It's a very dangerous instrument. I say this because in this debate we must indeed separate it. Mr Grashoff is right about that. You're asking if they're dangerous, scary instruments. Then you certainly shouldn't stimulate them. Then we're gonna ban them anyway. The second question is: if they are then allowed, should you treat them as foreign or as equity, et cetera? That's what I'm here to talk about. I have already said at the beginning that it is a hybrid form of capital, a form between debt and equity. That's not new in itself. We already had them for the new capital requirements of Basel III. And then they were tax-deductible, too. That is one aspect that Mr Grashoff could also face.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u103	It is not for nothing that I choose to place that interruption at the moment. Of course they are risky instruments. There's no one denying that. But that doesn't necessarily mean they're wrong. I also said in my speech that it is a good thing that the AFM warns that you must have a lot of understanding before you invest in it. I believe that the Minister and I agree with each other with each other. The essence is that there is actually an equity instrument that is treated as debt. Does the Minister agree with me that it is really just a trick to get that done and to get the taxpayer to pay through the tax deduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u104	No. It's really a hybrid instrument. It's in between. It has properties of debt and it has properties of equity. The trick is that when a bank gets into trouble, things can get started. It'll look more like equity. But in normal circumstances, in which a company runs normally, it works as a debt. Deutsche Bank has said: we are simply going to pay the coupon rate on it, despite the turmoil in the financial market. So you have to make a decision in there. In the past, it has already been decided to make hybrid instruments deductible. That consideration had therefore to be re-examined. It has been said that it has taken a very long time. "We can't keep diving" was a quote Mr Merkies used. That was about diving in the sense of: we have to make some decisions about it. The banks were saying to us "and that's perfectly normal" "let's get this straight." From 1 January 2014, the new capital requirements would apply to what used to be called ordinary hybrid instruments and now coco's. The banks asked: do you still consider them hybrid instruments and are they deductible? We couldn't have made a decision about it either. Then the banks probably would have just subtracted them, and then there might have been lawsuits. They said, "Now make an explicit decision. Are you going to let them be deductible, just like the old hybrid instruments?" It has taken us too long. That is also one of the reasons why it has entered the legislative procedure in this way. In retrospect, we should have cut the knot earlier, but that did not happen. On the issue point, Mr Grashoff asked whether they had already been issued prior to the decision on deductibility. Mr Van Dijck also mentioned this. You saw that the Dutch banks waited for that decision and only then started to issue coco's again. The new hybrid instrument, coco, was only issued after the cabinet had made that decision. It is unclear what amount has been spent on coco products. I thought Mr Van Dijck was talking about 25 billion, but Mr Omtzigt already corrected him. In the Netherlands, 5.5 billion was spent on coco products. Dutch banks have only 100 million coco's in their balance sheet to coco's from other banks. This has to do with the strict requirements; it is not attractive to invest in them at all. Of the euro area total, 131 billion was spent on coco products. 5.5 billion is owned by financial institutions and all other coco's in the hands of institutional investors and such large investors. Those are the numbers. Mrs De Vries said that the Minister in the NRC opposed the banking lobby on the one hand, but then allowed the banking lobby on the other. My criticism in the NRC was not that there was lobbying. Anyone can lobby for their interests. My criticism was that you were quoting the false and incorrect arguments. It was all about capital requirements. I haven't heard so much lately, but there has been a lot of lobbying in recent years against raising capital requirements. Luckily, we seem to be crossing that bridge now. The Dutch banks have kept a lot of profits. The capital ratios have been increased. The leverage ratio is moving towards the four. We are therefore on the right path in this respect. The argument was always that this would be at the expense of lending. I have opposed this very much, and I have been very annoyed by it, because that is what you are saying: it is the fault of this terrible policy that SMEs cannot get credit. That's just wrong. That's what that article was about. Anyone in the Netherlands can lobby. I come to the lobby at the end of my speech, more generally. Then there is the discussion that is also evident from the e-mails that have been made public. I have one comment to make on this point. I've provided all the e-mails and internal documents to the Chamber in which you see what my responsibility has been. I have no problem with that either. You can address me to all the decisions I've made. That is quite exceptional, by the way. I do not believe that we have previously provided so many e-mails with all the Minister's scribbles to the Chamber, but if the Chamber attaches them, she can get them. What I do object to, however, is that we must now also send all kinds of exchanges of views between officials to the Chamber. That's really not good. Those scribbles of mine were, among other things, exactly about this point, because this was one of the discussions that we had in detail at the Ministry: the treatment of foreign and equity and whether you should draw them more evenly. There is a great deal to be said for economic reasons. In the context of the reform of the system, we have also made proposals to limit the tax deduction of interest. Unfortunately, that has not yet been achieved. We have not yet found the necessary support for the major tax reform. Interestingly, in the European Commission's proposal to combat tax avoidance, the same type of proposal comes back. So that is just on the table at Ecofin, where we, as President, will try to reach agreement on it. That's a limitation on the interest deduction. Of course, you can approach that in different ways. You can say that you have to give equity a similar deduction, or you can reduce the deduction on debt or even abolish it altogether. There is now a proposal to maximize that deduction. I continue to believe that this is really an important subject for the future. We simply want equity to play a more important role in the economy. This is important, also for the strength of our business. So at some point we need to retake that. Then I come to the question of state aid. The e-mails clearly show that this has been discussed extensively, including with the European Commission, which has made critical comments. I do not feel free, and that really has to do with protecting the relationship we have with the Commission and its officials, to further indicate what they have said or what changes that has led to. They are simply prepared to indicate at an earlier stage, before there is a legislative proposal, what risks there are. They haven't given a judgment on that either, which doesn't fit into such a phase. They never will. They only point to possible critical aspects. It was the consideration of Secretary of State Wiebes and myself that this facility does not constitute State aid. I have also explained this extensively in the written answers. The measure does not fulfil the four conditions for being an aid measure as defined in the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u105	I see Mr Merkies at the interrupting microphone, but I want to see if the answers to the other questions can be given now. Otherwise there will be new questions halfway through and then it will be a bit tricky. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. How many questions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u106	Mr. Chairman. We can all agree that I'm just going through it real fast. I'll try to answer all the questions. Then we can pick up business in the second term. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u107	Just for a second, though. Look, it's about very different aspects. On the lobby, but also on state aid. Perhaps the Minister would like to say a few words about state aid. I would like to ask a question once he has completed the answer, otherwise it will be very far off.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u108	I'm looking at the minister. Is that point finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u109	I was just about to start on the subject of state aid, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u110	Then I suggest you do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u111	I have a bunch of questions here about state aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u112	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u113	Mr Merkies asked why there is no state aid here. Indeed, there is State resources and an advantage for companies, but there is neither selectivity nor potential distortion of competition, since it is a specific sector with specific requirements and circumstances.... or an effect on trade within the internal market. And these are the requirements of state aid in Europe in the Treaty. As far as selectivity is concerned, the measure does not differentiate between undertakings in a comparable legal and factual situation. The measure is open to all banks and insurers, all of which are subject to specific supervisory regimes. Banks, on the one hand, and insurers, on the other hand, have specific supervisory regimes with mandatory capital buffers that other companies do not have. Mr Van Dijk pointed out that other companies, because the market forces them or for other reasons, had more equity. It could be. However, the peculiarity is that this is not enforced by the market in the financial sector, which we have seen in the past. Given the risks involved, the government has imposed the obligation: you will have this capital. And that you will have in these layers, with these percentages and thus built up with so many weighted and unweighted risks. This is prescribed in a very specific and compelling way. It really is a very different regime from any other sector. Then I come to trade and the internal market. To the best of my knowledge, almost all Member States have done so in Ireland alone, it seems that the remuneration on Additional Tier 1 capital as an instrument, i.e. additional core capital, is deductible from the tax result for banks in any case. In some countries this is broader, but in some countries it is specific and exclusive to the financial sector. If the Commission considers that there is selectivity, I believe that selectivity is justified by the nature and structure of the system in the financial sector. This reasoning is also in line with a previous Commission decision on Denmark. The measure makes it easier to meet the solvency requirements of financial institutions and is in line with the increasing demands of financial institutions. In that case, the Commission acknowledged that it might be necessary to adopt tax measures which meet the serious requirements of this sector. It is relevant to know how the Commission has assessed similar cases. Mr Omtzigt asked about the state of the investigation. Has a formal investigation started? So far, only questions have been asked. These are the first steps on the road to a possible investigation that we do not know yet. A further step could also be to ask additional questions. However, we do not have it yet. We have to wait and see, and I cannot predict when that will become clearer. That is really up to the Commission. I think those were the most important questions about the relationship with the Commission. It is now really up to the Commission to develop an opinion on this. Moreover, the Commission's questions have been answered and I have sent my answers to the Commission to your Chamber to ensure that Members have and can read all the information on them. Then I come to the question of why the deduction for banks and insurers was not submitted to the Commission for formal approval at the time, in relation to the state aid aspects. The rule is: if there is no state aid, you do not have to submit it. And in my opinion, there was no state aid. If you do believe that it is state aid, you have to submit it, because sometimes state aid is allowed. So when it comes to the question of whether State aid would be allowed, please refer it to the Commission. That's the login obligation. However, this is not an aid measure and it is not State aid. Then that obligation doesn't apply either. On this subject, I am at your service, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u114	The reasoning is that if there is no state aid, you do not have to submit it. If you are sure that there is state aid, you do not have to submit the whole law at all. So it's not about whether you think in the end, if you've adjusted and weighed everything, that it might be state aid. No, it's about whether there's been any doubt in the process. It concerns the risk of State aid. I've already mentioned the one sentence that hasn't been lacquered. Everything else is lacquered, so we don't know what else would come out of that. It states that there is a high State aid risk. Then the Minister cannot say nothing about this to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u115	We have discussed it with the Commission, which has made critical comments, but has not delivered an opinion. There has been discussion within the department. The same can be said of those documents. By the way, Mr Merkies now says that only one sentence has not been painted. There is a whole stack of internal notes and e-mails that were all addressed to me and my views and reactions can be read in it. Well, Mr Merkies knows that too. I'm just gonna say it for the folks at home. It is clear from this that there has indeed been a lot of internal discussion about state aid and State aid risks, with different views. It is also my opinion, on the basis of the information we have in other cases, because there is, of course, a great deal of case-law that it is permissible for this sector, which is subject to such specific requirements, to have a single regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u116	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u117	If the minister pretends to have everything in those pieces, I'll see where the camera is. The pages are just empty. I said here this afternoon that the only thing Mr van der Steur has learned is that no black ink is being used, but it is white. It saves ink. For the rest we don't read anything in it, except closing sentences like "happy weekend" and "sleep well." This means that we do not know anything about the decision-making process. What amazes me is that there has been one informal consultation in which the European Commission has made it clear that it thinks it is state aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u118	No, she didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u119	Well, she's made some critical comments. Then we'll know very well. Then the Minister will never again be in touch with the European Commission. That surprises me very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u120	We really have to try to stick to the facts, otherwise it just can't be done. The facts are that there have been two WOB requests. The first was from the NRC and that has been answered extremely generously, with a large stack of pieces. These are all pieces addressed to me, in which you can read my reactions and views. That's all fine. The second set of songs that Mr Merkies is now waving is from Argos. Argos has asked to see all internal mail changes, including those between employees, which are related to this subject. I'll just draw a line there. Then officials in the ministry can no longer simply email each other, because it can all come out. What purpose does it serve? The first stack, which NRC has been obsessed with, clearly shows which advice has gone to me, what I have found of it and what I have judged. It's my political responsibility. My political opinion is that Mr Merkies cannot agree with it, and it is good that it is legitimate for this sector, with its special regime and its demands, to grant separate tax treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u121	Your second interruption, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u122	This is not an answer to my question, I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u123	Then I've missed a question. My apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u124	It was about the European Commission, that the Minister had no further contact with the European Commission after he had informal consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u125	Mr Merkies concluded that the initial consultations would have made it clear that the Commission considers that there is State aid. So it's not. That's for him to conclude. The Commission has made critical comments. Next, it is up to me as the Minister responsible to judge whether I consider this to be state aid or not. If the Commission feels otherwise, we will hear it. I have answered all the Commission's questions as fully as possible. It is not state aid and I am not obliged to report it to the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u126	The memorandum of 5 September 2013 contains notes from the Minister which have not been largely whitewashed. This clearly raises the question to the Minister as to whether there is a State aid risk. This is a note from the Minister and the Secretary of State at the time. We will then receive a letter signed by Secretary of State Weekers on 16 December 2013, in which no mention is made of any consideration of whether or not to investigate or register. That is what we read in a June 2014 note: we understand that, at the request of the banks, the Minister has agreed to delete the explicit reference in the legal text to credit institutions; this does not reduce the risk of State aid from a legal point of view. Further on, we read: however, we do not see any possibility of eliminating State aid risk in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u127	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u128	My question is this. If this is so obvious and if the Minister has very clear views on it, why does he not report it to the Chamber? He did not do so in the letter, not in the legislative proposal, nor in the response to questions put by the Chamber. Those were not our questions, by the way, but those of other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u129	First of all, the following. The letter from Secretary of State Weekers to which Mr Grashoff refers is a response to a motion by GroenLinks. That motion called for the facilitation of equity capital. Very understandable, because from that perspective, debt and own funds should not be treated more equally. One of the things the Secretary of State says in that letter, almost as a concession to GroenLinks, is the fact that the hybrid instruments will remain deductible, as has always been the case in the past. That was just a reaction to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u130	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u131	That's bullshit? I've been reading the pieces. I read the motion. I have even read about the debate, in which the Green Left spokesperson, Mr Klaver, spoke. He has put that theme on the agenda and Secretary of State Weekers has responded to it. In October there was a report that we were going to take care of this. The issue of State aid has been discussed internally. The question was whether or not State aid was involved. The fact that the risk was present gave rise to the debate. In order to assess whether State aid is involved or not, we have looked at how other countries are doing. We have also looked at the Commission's earlier judgement. I have mentioned the example of Denmark in this regard. We have looked at the specific characteristics of this sector and the demands made by the public authorities. My conclusion is that there is no state aid. If Mr Grashoff does not agree with that, then so be it, but this is my view. The Commission has now asked questions about it, and we await it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u132	There is a strong debate on whether or not State aid is involved. The Minister has a very clear view on this and puts his mark on it. If the Minister does not inform the Chamber in any way that this discussion is taking place, that he has a view on it and that he has made a decision, then I think that the obligation to provide information is not fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u133	That's an idea. Mr Grashoff should know that in the departmental preparation of legislation there are a lot of considerations and a lot of discussions. The minister sits there as a political boss and finally says: that's how we're going to do it. Then you send a proposal with a justification to the Chamber and then the Chamber asks questions about it. I shall now come to the question of how the legislative process could have been improved, but this is how it is going. If Mr Grashoff tells me that in future I will have to report any internal discussion to the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u134	Not every discussion needs to be reported, but it is the following. If there is a presumption of State aid, it will be submitted to the Commission. There's a special procedure for that, a pre-registration. Then you get green or red light. The coco's constitute State aid, but the Minister considers that State aid is permissible. Perhaps this is sustainable, given that this is a special sector, with special requirements for banks to be a special sector, we all know since 2008............................................................................................................................................................................................. However, had the Minister not done better in view of what was known on 30 April and also in view of the intensity of the internal discussion, where several people said that the risk of state aid is very high, to follow the pre-notification procedure rather than having it come to a later procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u135	No. Firstly, the Commission often raises questions about Member States' policies. People ask: what are you actually doing? This is called for in order to assess the existence of State aid. The Commission does not yet have an opinion on this. Secondly, in order to decide whether to notify state aid in advance, you must, of course, assess whether there is State aid. In some cases, State aid is still permitted within the State aid framework known to the Commission. That could happen. However, my judgment was not: there is state aid and it is permissible. No, my opinion is here: there is no state aid. I would like to explain this because Mr Omtzigt has just reworded it. If the Commission were to say that there is selectivity, I would say that there is also reason for selectivity. However, in my opinion, there is no selectivity here, since the measure does not differentiate between undertakings in a similar situation, both legally and factually.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u136	I thought I had just understood from the discourse that there is selectivity, but that it is a justified selectivity. After all, the Minister has just argued with some conviction that banks are different from other companies. That's right. However, if you followed that reasoning, you should have reported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u137	That's right, but my reasoning is different. I say this again for the sake of clarity; I have just said so. My assessment of selectivity is that there is no selectivity because the measure does not differentiate between undertakings in a comparable position. The companies in the same position, the banks, are all treated the same. The same applies to insurers. Other companies are really in a completely different situation and are on a different legal playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u138	I await with interest the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u139	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u140	However, I would like to know what warnings there were. So I am not asking for the memo to be published, but I am asking what the warnings were, or what the message from the European Commission was on 30 April. I would also like to know whether there was any way in which it could have been inferred that there was a not negligible risk that it could have been classified as State aid. What further steps has the government taken to remove the risk in the final article submitted to the Chamber in that second letter of amendment to the Collecting Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u141	There wasn't a ready-made piece of legislation at the time. It is not the case that we went to Brussels with the article of the law. We have the opportunity to talk informally with Commission officials about a plan. That's what happened. There have been critical comments on this. We listened to them and took them with us. After that, the bill was made. I told you, we also looked at what happened in other countries. The Netherlands is not unique in making that assessment, because all countries have had to make that assessment again. It was a redefined instrument. We did know hybrid instruments, but not with these demands. Other countries have done the same. The Netherlands is therefore not the only country that has chosen this route. I say again that, given the knowledge we have of the way state aid works, the criteria laid down in the Treaty, its application and previous case law, it is our view that this is not state aid. If I had considered that it was state aid, we should have notified it. The Commission could then have said whether it was authorised as State aid. You could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u142	Mr Omtzigt interrupts for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u143	Have all the points of 30 April, which the Commission considers might lead to state aid, been repaired in the final article of the law submitted to the Chamber, or have there been any points left after 30 April which the Commission has warned about, but which have still been incorporated into the final legislative text? I ask this question for the following reason. If there are points left and this ultimately turns out to be state aid, this could lead to recoveries of many hundreds of millions over a number of years. So all those points of April 30th are addressed, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u144	There are no concrete points. I'm not gonna say any more about that either. Mr Omtzigt wants to know what changed in that conversation and what happened to it. I can't say. He's gotta believe mine. Well, he shouldn't, but I ask him to believe me at this point. These are informal contacts with the Commission in which you probe "We intend to do so and how do you view this?' Then they say, "Watch out, watch out, think about this, and remember that." The Commission also keeps saying 'We are not bound by this, this is not our formal position, we do not know your proposals, so you cannot derive anything from it'. If I make that public, the Commission will not commit itself to it. The Commission must be able to keep its hands open in order to give its opinion freely if any further questions arise. If I now announce what was said in that conversation, what points have been discussed and what we have done with it, the Commission will no longer engage in this kind of informal conversation with the Netherlands in advance. That's the position we're in. We often have a debate with Mr Omtzigt on how the Netherlands is interacting with the Commission. Can the Room see them all? It is in our interest to have informal and early contacts with Brussels. So I'll protect those contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u145	During the process of making the letter of amendment, has there been any doubt as to whether there was State aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u146	Mr Merkies has read the documents. There was a lot of discussion about whether or not it was state aid. It is a separate regime, which in practice mainly benefits banks and insurers. By the way, that's not covered up. The four pages explaining that article in the letter of amendment concern the financial sector, the specific situation and requirements of that sector, the supervisory framework and so on. There is nothing concealing about that, it is perfectly clear. We didn't try to hide anything, nor did we try to help the banks. That is very explicit in the explanatory statement, page after page about the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u147	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u148	They play all the time and you see there's panic in the tent. There is constant thought of other ways in which one can say it. Should banks be mentioned or not, are they identical products and similar products? The one would have more impact on the risk of State aid or not. So we have thought about the way in which we should write that there is no state aid involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u149	Of course, you have to justify that it does not meet the four criteria that define state aid. This is also apparent from the answers we have sent to the Commission. It's not selective, et cetera. That must also be demonstrated by the motivation of such a text. It is our justification why we are doing this, why we are allowing this and why this should be done especially for banks. You can read that in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u151	We've got nothing to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u152	The Minister now prevents all Member States in Europe from doing so and facilitating the same. I wonder if the Minister can't zoom in on the differences. In some Member States, insurers are not involved; in some, coco products may be generally deductible, not only for banks but also for companies. The Minister mentioned between the lines that Ireland has made a different arrangement. In reply to questions, he says that Sweden is not yet out of the question, and I also read in the documents that there is still a discussion going on in Austria. Is the law now applied to all Member States, or are there any differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u153	No, there are differences and it's not ironed straight. If it were to be ironed out, Mr Van Dijk would be the first to protest. He is opposed to agreements being reached in Europe on tax policy. Each member has its own competence and that is different in each country, but in almost all countries the cost of these instruments is deductible. For some members this is only the financial sector, only for banks, others have done so for all companies. Some argue that it is for all companies, but only under those conditions and those and those conditions, which ultimately only benefits the financial sector. It's all different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u154	However, this question is relevant to the principle of selectivity. The Minister says: no, it is justified that only banks and insurers should be allowed to use this instrument, this deductibility. But if there are countries where it applies to the whole sector, including businesses, the Commission can of course say: here there is selectivity, the Netherlands; you have to apply it to everyone. Then this minister can expect a post-tax of hundreds of millions from the business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u155	We need to go back to the question of what this state aid regime is really for. What are these competition rules for? To promote fair competition. We do that primarily in the jurisdiction that applies here. For the tax area this is the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, the financial institution is treated equally, i.e. financial institutions competing with each other. Then you will say: yes, but they are also competing with European banks. To a large extent we now have a Single Rulebook, as it is called, but not yet in the tax field. Banking tax regimes are still very different in all Member States, including in the Member States of the Banking Union. If you say to me 'do something about it, develop a European tax policy', I think that is an interesting idea. I hear you're not gonna say that. Then you must also accept that tax policy is different. The Commission will also have to accept this, which it cannot tell the Member States. The resolution levy is deductible in some countries and not in others. Tax rates are higher in one country than in the other. Is that state aid? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u156	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u157	No, Mr Koolmees has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u158	I understand the arguments about selectivity. Banks in the Netherlands are all treated in the same way, so no discrimination, not even between banks in Europe. They're all approached in the same way. The discussion is about companies in the Netherlands that are not banks, hence the discussion about credit institutions, I think. We have also received all kinds of correspondence about credit institutions from these WOB requests. Take Wehkamp, who sells on credit. Is the Minister's reasoning that such a credit institution is not covered by CRD IV legislation and so on and that you can therefore make a distinction? Is that also the reasoning followed by the Council of State in the opinion on insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u159	Yeah, I'm saying it out of my head. This is an interesting point. It is not a banking law, it is an article as you know, because it has been accelerated by a letter of amendment, it has not passed the Council of State. In retrospect, that wasn't good. We have dealt with the same thing for insurers; a point that is right. That was in the tax plan that followed later. That went neatly past the Council of State. The Council of State has seen this and made no critical comment about it, not about state aid or other aspects. That is not an answer to the question, but this is relevant information. The Chamber is right, by the way, this kind of thing just has to go through the Council of State. However, the insurance sector, for which we regulate the same thing, has passed through the Council of State and the Council of State has not said: wait a minute, this looks like state aid. Or: how about this, how about that? The Council of State has said: fine, this is actually a continuation of existing policies. I believe that is not even said, but perhaps that was the argument for not finding anything critical of it. That is an important point. In the section of the Tax Plan on insurers, the link has been explicitly established with the supervisory framework and the requirements framework, Solvency II, for insurers. Credit institutions subject to the capital requirements of Basel III and CRD IV may use this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u160	Now I'm a little confused. Banks covered by CRD IV and Basel III can use this in the law. I would like to take a look at the risk that the European Commission will decide that it is indeed state aid. The most similar company is then a Wehkamp, a company that sells things on credit. Since these companies are not covered by the CRD IV and Basel III requirements, you can make a distinction. That is the Minister's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u161	That's the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u162	Please continue. I'm asking you to go round up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u163	That's what I'm gonna do. I do have one important issue, namely the working method and the lobby. I also have a single point about structural budgetary costs or costs. revenue. Why has it always been mentioned, including in the parliamentary documents, that it costs nothing? I'm just gonna say it quick and fast. That is because it was already deductible and because it also remains deductible and so you do not have to include a budgetary estimate for that. In fact, if we had abolished deductibility, it would have counted. Then the 350 million would have been counted as an increase in the burden on business. That is the system we know, and that is why it has always been said: we do not need to close the burden framework again in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u164	I see Mr Merkies at the interrupting microphone, but I suggest that the Minister finish his story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u165	The whole process is, after all, unhappy. We should've figured it out sooner. Then it could simply have been included in the Tax Collection Act and had passed the Council of State et cetera. We made the decision late and then, because in fact the new rules had already entered into force on 1 January 2014, we chose the fast route, and that is by letter of amendment. It wasn't a banking law, as the NRC consistently writes. It was one article and that one article with four pages of explanation was sent to the Chamber in a letter of amendment. The lesson we learn from that is that we should not do that anymore. We must ensure that we make our decisions in good time and that we include them in a regular legislative process. In that case, the Council of State could have looked into it. The insurers looked at it and they didn't like it, but that's beside the point. Mr Omtzigt has asked: how will we guarantee that the Council of State will not be passed? I am making a political commitment here that this will only happen in very exceptional cases, for example if the Chamber wants to have a letter of amendment very quickly. In that case, the Chamber indicates that, but we must ensure that we allow legislation to pass through the Council of State as much as possible in the regular procedure. If we do not come up with a letter of amendment and pass through the Council of State, the Chamber can of course simply say: we do not want to deal with that letter of amendment, because you are going to the Council of State. So let's keep each other focused on that point. In short, I still support the content and the need for the decision. I await the assessment of state aid, but you know my opinion. The process has not been sufficiently careful and should be improved next time. Finally, I come to the lobby. I don't have anything against the lobby. And yes, stakeholders can watch in the preparation of legislation. If it had been an ordinary legislative process, parties would probably have been able to react to it via the Internet consulation. As the Chamber knows, the internet consultation means that your response will in principle become public, unless you tick yourself that you do not want to. My experience with the NVB and the banks is that they never check if they respond to an internet consultation. So you and I can always see on the Internet what the banking lobby thinks of a particular subject. Because this has gone into an accelerated procedure, there has been no internet consultation. There has been contact with the banks about how to fly this. I have not realised that either, but some of the texts have just been taken over from the banks. But, of course, I have seen and read the proposal. The same applies to Secretary of State Wiebes, because it is tax legislation. We then signed it. The political responsibility for every sentence that has been taken over from anyone lies with us. However, we need to do this even better in the future. In principle, therefore, everything goes into internet consultation, as was already the case with legislation on the financial market. We are also going to do this in principle in the case of tax legislation, but I say immediately that this is not always possible. Take the Tax Plan around Princess Day. We often simply have the procedure for decisions to be taken in August and for it to be sent to the Chamber soon. We don't have time to do an internet consultation. The time schedule for the big Tax Plan with Princess Day is extremely tight. I do not therefore see the possibility of internet consultation, but in all other legislation that should really be the starting point. As far as I'm concerned, that should also be public. The banking lobby, to name it, is working to make it public. This also avoids the problem of only talking to certain stakeholders. Anyone can leave a message at internet consultation. I have said internally: if we think that a consumer interest is at stake, for example, and consumer organisations have not yet responded, we are aware of this and we will look into what these organisations think about it. So we have to be alert ourselves to the fact that we are picking up the reactions in width. We will include a lobby section in legislation from now on. That was a request from Mr Nijboer. Mr Merkies also argued for this earlier, as did the De Wit Committee. So we are going to include the lobby section in future, although we will not call it that. However, we will report on the internet consultation, in which we indicate what input there has been and so on. Where possible and where appropriate, we will always include in the explanatory statement the considerations made regarding a legislative proposal, balancing interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u166	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u167	Sure. Mr Nijboer has asked if I am prepared to make my agenda public. I'll explain why that's important. I talk a lot to financial institutions, all of which have big interests. It concerns insurers, banks and investors. The worst U.S. hedge funds come to me. I'll tell the Chamber all about it, and even those very wrong business bankers are all coming to see me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u168	Exciting!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u169	What about PvdAers?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u170	PvdA guys are never wrong and they come to see me too. Having said that, I understand that this is interesting and relevant. I want to be transparent about that. That is why I have been making my agenda public in detail since the beginning of this year. The Chamber can see every day with which interesting thugs I speak. There are also many good and good citizens with whom I am speaking. This can just be seen on the Finance web page. I also know that the Volkskrant is very interested in this, as is the lobby in The Hague. I don't have a problem with that; you can see who I'm talking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u171	As long as no questions have been left that have not been answered, we shall now move on to the second term. I see Mr Merkies at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u172	I have already said a lot about the lobby, but I am going back to that figure of 350 million. The Minister went through that point very quickly. He combines two things in a very crazy way: firstly, what comes from European regulation and secondly, what is in this law. There's 350 million going to the banks. How did the Minister get to the 350 million? We didn't miss this amount already, but the Minister seemed to be making that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u173	A brief response, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u174	I might be able to come back to it in the second term. We're making an assessment of what the tax loss is. If a measure already exists, then we have no reason to believe that it will suddenly become a huge bleacher. In this way, we assume that this is, in principle, unchanged policy. Hybrid instruments were already deductible. We have reconfirmed that and explicitly regulated it in this article of law. It's gonna stay that way. Then you do not have to include a budgetary estimate in the tax framework and make that framework final by increasing charges elsewhere. That is the system that Mr Merkies also knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u175	Let us not forget that a few years ago the law said that products comparable to own funds should not be deducted. Yeah, that was taken out. Of course, we are still talking about small quantities of these hybrid instruments. The Minister looks to the future. Then it's big quantities. Then it's 350 million. That's the money we're gonna miss.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u176	This is going to be a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u177	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u178	The rules are that, if instruments were already deductible and they remain...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u180	...we don't have to compensate for any additional losses elsewhere. I have not answered another question from Mr Omtzigt. He said a commitment was made by Minister Van der Steur. He asked when that note would come about the relationship between the WED and Article 68 of the Constitution. All I know is that note isn't ready yet. I can check when it's coming. Then I'm supposed to call V and J in a manner of speaking. That commitment stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u181	That is a commitment that is important not only for this debate, but for the whole Chamber, I say as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u182	Yeah, that's why. I understand that the Minister wants to understand himself with the Minister of Security and Justice and that he does not do so at 11:30 a.m. Could the Minister endeavour to send that note to the Chamber by April or to have a note sent by the Minister of Security and Justice when we can expect that note? Then, at another time, we can enter into a quiet debate on the relationship between these two articles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u183	I'll make sure there's a note from the minister of V and J about when the letter comes. Hopefully that will be possible by April at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u184	Let's move on to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u185	Could I have a few minutes of suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u186	Two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u187	Three.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u188	Come on. Then I'll suspend for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u189	Speaking time during this second term shall be one and a half minutes per Member, including motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u190	Mr. Chairman. From the Minister's reaction to this debate, we can conclude that things did not go exactly as they should have. I welcome the Minister's commitment to make it more transparent, to consult on the Internet and to be aware of the trade and walking agenda. I am particularly pleased that the Minister said that this should have gone to the Council of State and that it should have been more transparent. The question of state aid is not dealt with by the Minister. The Minister continues to choose the position that he cannot share everything with all those trips and considerations. All the information we have received shows that this was a major issue, perhaps and perhaps will be. In such cases, the Minister should inform us. I call on the Minister to make a move on this point. At the moment, I choose not to make a motion on this. I am sure that we will have the necessary discussions in which elements of transparency will play a role, such as Starbucks and Ikea. So we'll still have a few things to discuss. I hope that the promises made by the Minister on transparency will become a reality in all these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u191	Mr. Chairman. A lot's come out. Not because, as he suggests, the Minister has sent us generous information, but above all because of a number of journalists who have done their job well and have submitted WOB requests. That's really different. This has shown that a great deal of information about the whole process has not been shared with us. I think that is all the worse because I see a pattern in this, namely that the Minister does not seem to learn from the past. With the rewards within ABN AMRO he would have slapped his fist on the table, but later it turned out that that was not so bad and that he had agreed to it. There was the surprise about the EU's post-taxation. The Minister really needs to learn from the past and see how he can better inform us. Now it was 350 million going to the banks. Finally, a word about the lobby. The minister says he wants to take over that lobby section. I think that is a good point and I suggested it. I just hope that all influence on a law will be taken into account. If there is only an internet consultation and banks outside can do anything, there is of course no point. It must therefore be all the lobby around a law, including the letters of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u192	Mr. Chairman. I listened to a clear mea culpa from the minister. Let's just call it by the name. The Minister also admitted that the legislative process does not deserve a beauty prize. Doing something so great and important in a tax collecting law without consulting the Council of State does indeed not deserve a beauty prize. Anyway, it happened; so be it. I told you, I, too, got it wrong by thinking it was budget-neutral. This is part of a tax collection law; these are more technical changes, which have few budgetary implications. I also understand the Minister's explanation, but in the end it costs 350 million and it is again a concession to the banks. As I said in my first term, I wonder why banks should receive this concession and not normal companies. We do not have to feel sorry for the banks. I heard today that Rabobank is making 2.2 billion profits at this time, with a 20% increase in profits. I wonder how much of that 2.2 billion goes to equity and how much to dividend. Maybe the Minister can answer that. Then there's the tax loss. The Minister's talking about 350 million. It relies on hybrid instruments used for the entry into force of CRD IV. But after this bill, 6 billion has already been spent on coco's.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u193	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u194	If I understand correctly, that means 100 million on top of the 350 million extra tax losses. Am I wrong or are we gonna see the 350 million being 700 million? I'd be happy to be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u195	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, it is a rather bizarre debate. Legislation is one of the key tasks of the Chamber. It now seems that there is a need for very extensive discussions on this subject, while it has been treated as a hammer piece. I find that rather bizarre. A first-term question is still open. It is about the letter of amendment and whether we can also look at consultations that have taken place or consultations that have taken place. The Minister has indicated in general that he wants to do so by legislation. As far as I am concerned, lobbying is not only good or acceptable if its content happens to suit you. The Minister also says that everyone can lobby. But I got the impression from the Minister's opinion at the time: if I don't like the content of that lobby, you really shouldn't complain. And I think that's going a little far. As far as I'm concerned, that should also be heard. You cannot agree with it, but even then, lobby contributes to a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u196	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I asked questions about the risk of state aid in the first term and how it is looked at. I think I've got a clear answer. I also understand now why the reference to credit institutions had to be removed from the text. That was because of that risk. Thank you for that. I'm gonna say something about coco's. Yes, these are instruments that are allowed and perhaps disciplined and put the risks in the right place. Nevertheless, I continue to worry about possible systemic risks myself. Like Mr Nijboer, I am in favour of more equity in the system. The point, of course, is only that debt is cheaper. That's why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, within the current tax regime, it is more attractive for companies to finance themselves with debt than with equity;]] [[Whereas companies become less vulnerable with a higher share of equity;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to increase the level of tax treatment of equity and debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Koolmees and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32013-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u197	Mrs De Vries has another question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u198	I have a question about the explanation of the motion. The VVD tabled a motion on the tax climate some time ago. Mr Koolmees also supported this. How am I supposed to see that in relation to this motion? This can also be a common burden on business. I can't imagine D66 being for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u199	I'm certainly not in favour of that. The Minister said in the first term: it is part of the discussion we are now having on OECD/BEPS and the tax avoidance treaties. I think it is very good to make equity and debt more fiscally attractive, but you can also use that money very well to invest in the tax establishment environment, to ensure that the Netherlands remains indeed a very attractive country to enter into. That is why we have recently supported Mrs Neppérus' motion. I believe that there is another general discussion on BEPS on 3 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u200	I'd like to understand. If Mr Koolmees says that it needs to be reinvested, then that is part of the motion. I guess that's the context. Or does he just say: make proposals about whatever forms of equalization? That matters for our decision whether we can support the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u201	The motion makes it very clear that the cabinet is being asked to make proposals to treat equity and debt more neutrally and equalize. That's the motion's request. Of course, that fits in with the way D66 looks at OECD/BEPS, locational climate and that sort of thing. That is why Mrs De Vries rightly refers to Mrs Neppérus' motion for which we voted with conviction. However, this motion only calls for proposals to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u202	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to future transparency in the field of lobbying. The Minister indicated how everything was weighed. I think this is a better way to deal with it in the future. I asked for that too. I have two comments to make, including the tone of the debate in part of the Chamber. Especially if, in my opinion, you have forsaken your co-legislative task, don't fit it to blow as high off the tower as has been done. The second point concerns the provision of information to the Chamber. The information position of the Chamber is strong. That must be handled with decency. Members of parliament are waving white planes on internal mails sent to each other by officials, saying "it's a disgrace." However, they have received all the information, all the considerations and all the internal notes, which contained everything. Yet they want to create and score a hint of mistrust. Even if they are not my words, they are the words of my fellow Members, I do not think that this would benefit the Chamber and the functioning of the Chamber. It is creating mistrust, which I think is very bad and ultimately does us all no good. The Minister defends the measures taken in the banking sector. That's a lot of them. But the PvdA also thinks: move on and move on. That is what we are going to talk about. I understand that the Minister says "a lot has happened," but we are far from there. The sector is not yet healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u203	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group still sees the pattern of wage increases in ABN, in the dismissal of the NS top man, in the post-levy and in the Fyra Group that we had to dig a little further before the information came up. Same with the coco's. We thank the Minister for promising that we will not have this kind of thing in the future. This indeed does not deserve the beauty prize. We must ensure that we have timely information through the Council of State. I say to my colleague in the Labour Party: we do not need to see these internal memos. I therefore look forward with great interest to the discussion within the Cabinet on Article 68 of the Constitution. The cabinet will conduct the internal discussion on how it intends to comply with the obligation to provide information to the States-General, the First and Second Chambers. We're not a WOB institute. We need to get that information. Not thick packages, but just three sentences in the explanatory memorandum of a letter of amendment: this may have European law aspects, but we do not think so. That would have been enough. Leaving out those rules can still lead to hundreds of millions of fines. If that happens, we will look back at this debate and also at the statements made by several colleagues and by the Minister. I sincerely hope that we will get that note, preferably as soon as possible before 1 April. I've been looking into the Minister's real-time agenda. He did say he's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u204	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u205	That's right, and it was just scheduled for today and not tomorrow. Let us keep it that way. But there are only the public agreements in there. I understand that from the Minister, because if there is a crisis in the financial sector, he should not make his agenda completely public, but he should do it a little bit afterwards. Then it may have some degree of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u206	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for his answer. I think he can be very short in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u207	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman, because my agenda says I'll be out of here by midnight. Otherwise, my schedule doesn't add up. By the way, there are only public things in that. Does the Chamber really want me to mention every meeting? Do you know how much internal consultation I have with all my officials one day? Do you want me to mention: I'm moving with Jan and Piet now? That's really... This also touches a bit on the essence of the point which will also be reflected in the memorandum on Article 68 of the Constitution. The Chamber shall have the right to information. We must inform the Chamber in full. This does not mean, however, that every document and mail message exchanged in the Ministry must be sent to the Chamber. I look forward to that debate. I come to state aid. If I believe that something is not state aid, I would find it special to bring it to the attention of the Chamber. I'd write that in the bill from now on. Moreover, the explanatory memorandum to that letter of amendment did contain a paragraph on European law, but no mention of State aid. So I would have to write down the European legal aspects in future: I do not think it is state aid. I think that's weird, but okay. Mr Merkies and also Mr Omtzigt said to see a pattern. I'm very sorry about that. It's probably wise not to go into that. It's a bit of scratching and damaging the regiment. I was indeed surprised at the post-tax, Mr Omtzigt, after a week. That was simply because I do not accept such a high post-tax rate as the figures you should appeal to, because you are always arguing for transparency on which this calculation is based, and you are not being given to us. Over the next few weeks, we have been committed to getting these figures from Eurostat to the public. That's what happened in the end. But getting such an account without revealing the figures it's based on, I'm still surprised. We have had this debate before. I do not think I should have properly informed the Chamber. The same applies to the other examples. We don't have to do that over and over again. The lobby section must contain everything, Mr Merkies said. Wider than an internet consultation. If there have been broader contacts, then we will mention the issues and the interlocutors, all within reasonable limits, I hope. I hope that I do not have to mention every contact and conversation I've had with people I meet at a meeting somewhere, all in a legislative proposal from now on. It doesn't have to get hysterical. It is a question of transparency. Mr Van Dijck has asked a question about Rabobank's 2.2 billion. I can't answer that. Maybe the Rabobank can do that on its own. He also asked a question about the 350 million. It is based on the size of the hybrid instruments that were under Basel II. The assumption that it was simply an assumption that the Netherlands was 16 billion. The assumption is that at some point these will be replaced by new hybrid elements, coco's, as we now know them under Basel III. If you do the math, you'll get to 350 million. Is that what's happening? We haven't got that far yet. Five and a half billion dollars of coco have now been spent. Part of it is also to replace the old instruments. Mrs De Vries asked whether the letter of amendment could be consulted in future. I'd rather choose the other route. A letter of amendment is something that always goes after it as a matter of urgency, sometimes during the debate in the Chamber. If we have to do all this in consultation, it will lose the character of a letter of amendment, namely a rapid additional amendment. This was a major issue. That is evident from today's debate. That should not have been put behind a tax collecting law in a letter of amendment. Mrs De Vries is shaking no. If I misunderstood that, she just needs to clarify it. I understand the question in a moment. I will come back to the opinion piece towards the banks once again. It's not about lobbying. Everyone in the Netherlands lobbies for their interests and so do banks. They can do the same. I was concerned with the type of argument. It is extremely remarkable when you come out of such a financial crisis and put society on such an account, that you try to counter it with such false arguments as society says: you have to put your balance in order and solve your own problems from now on. There was my annoyance. As you're hearing, I haven't quite lost it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u208	There's been a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u209	Then I'll get to the motion. It calls on the government to make proposals to improve the tax treatment of equity and debt. I'll leave this motion to the Chamber. Some of this is already in the new proposals, and we shall return to this as soon as possible. Of course, Secretary of State Wiebes will do this, because it is about fiscal policy. The direction is shared by us and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u210	Mr Merkies is asking his last question during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u211	Mr President, the nature of an interruption is that you are also interrupting the Minister, but I understand your ambition to be ready by 24:00. Maybe we should move the clock a little bit. Mr Omtzig is interfering now and we will certainly be dealing with the clock of twelve. I was at the lobby about the following. We have seen that there was an entire mail exchange outside the law. Then I'm not interested in whether they participated in the internet consultation or not. If it is not about that consultation, I want to see it in one way or another, even when it comes to a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u212	We're about to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u213	This is also my point. I did not ask for an entire internet consultation for the letter of amendment, but if there has been consultation, please report it. I'll come back to the motion. What is the Minister's view of the tax environment when concrete proposals are being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u214	You can read the motion in different ways. It does not necessarily say that business facilities are shrinking. The motion could also theoretically be read in this way, but then I would also have to ask for cover that the deductibility of own funds should be thrown open, so that equity and debt are both deductible. In that case, this is a great relief for Dutch industry. This is a serious answer. The motion does not say that the facilities should be reduced or extended, but it must somehow be levelled. We are very aware of Mrs Neppérus' motion that we should look at the locational climate, including in the European context. We will. I will not carry out this motion with the aim of increasing the burden on business. Let's make a deal like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u215	It's exactly a minute before 12:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-18-tweedekamer-23.u216	This brings us to the end of this debate. We shall vote on the motion after the recess on 1 March. I thank the Minister and his officials, the people who followed the debate, the MPs, the Stenographic Service, the messengers and the clerk. I wish everyone a very nice recess.
