ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the House for having the opportunity to discuss this proposal tonight. The bill provides for a modest extension of the existing grounds for loss of Dutch citizenship after an irrevocable criminal conviction. It is good to point out for a moment that this bill does not create new principles or move any boundaries. Indeed, the existing loss grounds were already introduced on 1 October 2010. In all these cases, it is an irrevocable conviction for one of the crimes directed against the security of the State and containing a serious violent or hostile element. That bill was adopted unanimously by all members of the Chamber at the time. The debate on discrimination, on making a difference and on the relationship between these legislative proposals and the Constitution or a relationship between those proposals and European or international treaties has actually taken place at that time. At that time, on 1 October 2010, the principle was accepted by both Chambers that the Dutch Federation may, under certain circumstances, lapse after an irrevocable criminal conviction. Tonight we are adding a provision, namely Article 134a. Article 134a is necessary because the nature of people's involvement in terrorism has changed in recent years. We had hardly any Syrians in 2010. We had hardly heard of people from the Netherlands trying to co-organise terrorist organisations or terrorist offences in 2010. Faced with today's reality, the government has said, partly on the occasion of the motion of the then Member of the House of Representatives, that it is sensible and necessary to extend the possibility of depriving the Netherlands of its citizenship to that one Article 134a. Let me remind you of what we are talking about. We're talking about terrorist crimes. Those who are guilty of this are seriously damaging the essential interests of the Kingdom and are thus, in the opinion of the government and by now, also of a majority in the House of Representatives, forfeiting their claim to Dutch citizenship. Let us examine what kind of people we are talking about. These are people who do not want to accept the foundations of our rule of law. They are people who do not want to accept freedom of expression and freedom of religion. These are people who do not want to accept the existence of the Dutch State, who do not want to accept our values and who want to destroy the State and all the people who stand before the State. That's the purpose of terrorists. That is also the aim of the terrorists we have faced in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u2	It could also be minors. To what extent can they assess whether they are interfering with the fundamentals of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u3	It is good to recall that this subject was also discussed in 2010. The government said at that time that when it comes to minors, it is of course appropriate to take a good look at them and deal with them carefully. However, a minor may be 17 years old and also a very serious terrorist. The question then is how you deal with it; I will come back to that in a moment. The starting point has always been, even in 2010, that minors with these acts and their involvement in criminal offences of this kind may lose the right to Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u4	But these are people who have provided help and support, for example in preparation. This isn't about terrorists.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u5	That's gonna be a bit of a semantic discussion. The question arises as to whether Mrs Wezel agrees with me that the following is curious. If you buy explosives or explosives precursors, or if you buy or even manufacture bomb belt materials, or if you organise or contribute to a terrorist attack, for example by collecting maps or taking photographs, or if you conduct reconnaissances for the purpose of a possible terrorist attack, or if you contribute to the perpetrator's flight, those are all offences that may fall under Article 134a. Many Members will agree with me that this tends towards terrorist crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u6	This can also be about limited actions, such as collecting money or looking things up on Google. It may be even more limited, but it may still fall under 134a Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u7	It's possible. Soon I'll come to proportionality. I will take this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u8	Fortunately, in answering Mrs Wezel's questions, I heard the Minister express himself a little more nuanced. But in the beginning, in his tirade against all possible terrorist crimes, we share his abhorrence of that. I had the impression that he was talking more about another article of law, namely Article 140a Criminal Law, which deals with complete terrorist crimes, while the little bill we are discussing today is about providing hand and span services to terrorist crimes. Now they can indeed be extremely serious. But then it doesn't fit in with that general tirade against terrorist crimes. Then what's important is what the judge found out about it. The penalty measurement is important in this respect, as is the seriousness of the crime and any humanitarian reasons, such as the pressing circumstances mentioned in the letter. I was a little surprised that the Minister went so fast while we were talking about Article 134a.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u9	I fully agree with Mr Schrijver. Article 134a concerns people who deliberately provide themselves, resources or intelligence or try to commit a terrorist offence. So it really is a group of people who deliberately, consciously and intentionally contribute to the possibility of committing a terrorist offence. What I have just outlined is indeed part of the basic idea of people who commit attacks under Article 140a. But this is really about people who are instrumental in making it possible to succeed in a terrorist attack. This means that we do agree that these people can be instrumentally important in committing such an attack. For this reason, the government believes that this article belongs in this list. The new cause of loss is an example of persons who have been irrevocably convicted of cooperating or participating in a terrorist training camp, which has also been discussed extensively in the written round, or who acquire other knowledge for the purpose of committing such a crime. The addition lies in reason, because of the seriousness and nature of the behaviour which can so much harm the essential interests of our State and our society that withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is then appropriate. I note that this was the conclusion of the Council of State, which gave a blank opinion on this proposal. To be honest, I was a little surprised by the opinion of the SP Group. It concluded that this bill would be contrary to the Constitution and to a number of international treaties. I can only observe that the SP Group believes that this escaped the attention of the Council of State and the entire Second and First Chamber in 2010, when the principle of this bill, namely the possibility that, in the event of a serious terrorist offence, the nationality of a person lapses, was accepted by everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u10	Of course, we're talking 134a here. That also existed in 2010. It wasn't included in those articles at the time. I think that 134a is really different from those other articles. I think that has escaped the attention of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u11	I do not comment on what has escaped the judgment of the Council of State, but I consider the Council of State to be high. But, of course, it's about the principle. In 2010, the principle was laid down that a number of crimes could involve the loss of Dutch citizenship. If that principle applies today to 134a, it will also apply in 2010 to a whole series of offences, which were also contrary to the Constitution and European treaties, which would have escaped the attention of the Council of State. I don't think that's true. There is no question of this conflict with Article 1 of the Constitution. In that respect, I am in good company with the Council of State. How does it work in practice? A number of conditions must be met. There must be an irrevocable conviction by a Dutch court. That irrevocable conviction took place following the entry into force of the bill. There is also a second nationality, so that withdrawal does not lead to statelessness. I come to Mr Van Dijk's comments on this. Then we will have the stage of preparing for a possible decision to withdraw. The IND receives information about a Dutchman convicted of a terrorist offence. An assessment will then be made of whether the conditions for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship are met. The proposal to withdraw the Dutch citizenship could then be submitted to the Minister. That proposal will then be sent. As a result of that intention, the person concerned may or may not express his views on that intention. A balance of interests takes place on the basis of the view, weighing the interests of the State against the individual interests of the person concerned. This applies: it is applied, unless. I made that clear in the pieces, too. The Minister shall then make the decision known to the person concerned within a maximum of 16 weeks of the date on which the intention was given. If necessary, foreign legal measures may then be taken. That's how it's gonna be in practice. I shall come back to the question of the application of proportionality. Members Writer, Bikker and Wezel have asked what the added value is...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u12	I am glad that the Minister is going to come back to proportionality, but I would like a little more clarity now. Is the measure of punishment, or the imposition of penalties by the judge, also involved in the assessment of whether or not to withdraw?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u13	It is clear that, of course, there must always be an individual assessment. The starting point is that the Dutch are withdrawn, unless. Unless, of course, there is also the question of the degree of penalty imposed by the court, the nature of the conduct and the extent to which it affects the interests of the State. I fully agree with Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u14	Fine. Does the Minister still come to the conclusion of the criterion of "essential interests"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u15	Yes, although I say to Mrs Strik that I cannot, of course, give a kaleidoscope of all the considerations involved. It's really custom-made and just because it's custom-made, I don't think it's good to say: in these cases it is and in those cases it isn't. You always have to look at that and cut customization on the person, because each case will always be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u16	Is that consideration clearly stated in the decision itself, so that it is also clear how that consideration has been made and whether or not it can be appealed against?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u17	Of course. I come to the question of the added value of the bill. Today's addition to the Chamber fits into the existing legal system. The crime is similar in nature and seriousness to crimes that may already constitute grounds for withdrawal. That withdrawal reflects the fact that if someone seriously harms the essential interests of the Netherlands in this way, the relationship with the Netherlands can no longer exist. I also indicated in my introduction that people who deal with such acts generally do not want to recognise the essence of the Netherlands, our norms and values and our rule of law, and even fight against them. Because this crime is topical, including in the context of jihadist Syrians, the government believes that there is a need to incorporate this article of law. In the past period, from 2013 to 2015, eight persons have been prosecuted under Article 134a of the Criminal Code, six of whom have been convicted and two have been acquitted. An appeal against both the conviction and the acquittal has been brought, so there is currently no irrevocable conviction on the basis of Article 134a. Then I come to Mrs Strik's question. Doesn't the bill show insufficient trust in the criminal justice system? Why is withdrawal even necessary? I think it is very important that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship reflects the fact that the Dutch citizenship of the person concerned can no longer continue if he opposes the essential interests of the Dutch State. This is a structural and concrete issue in the case of a terrorist offence, also in accordance with Article 134a. Mrs Strik also asked about the relationship between the legal obstacles to the withdrawal of one's nationality on the one hand, and the desirability of the legislative proposal on the other. In the direction of Mr Schrijver and Mrs Strik, I confirm that the Netherlands is and remains bound by international law. The distinction between single and multiple-nationals is justified by the importance of preventing statelessness. That must also be in treaties to which we are bound. However, the seriousness of the breach of the legal order is not decisive in this respect. I will go into the issue of discrimination in a moment. Mrs Bikker, who I know is unfortunately unable to attend tonight, has asked how Dutch citizenship can be facilitating for persons covered by this bill. This facilitation is quite easy to describe. Of course, Dutch citizenship brings with it rights: the right to return to the Netherlands and freedom of travel in the Schengen area. Members will be able to imagine that both rights can have great value for terrorists. It is therefore the government's intention to take away these rights from a convicted person. Mrs Bikker asked why the withdrawal of nationality could now work, while this did not work in 2010. The trade-off was changed in 2010. In this bill, only one additional ground is added to the list of crimes. With the withdrawal it is expressed that, if you violate the essential interests of the Dutch State, withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is indicated. Then I come to the issue of proportionality. Mrs Duthler, Mrs Strik, Mr Schrijver and others have asked for this. In all cases, following an irrevocable conviction under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law, there will be a legal basis for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. In the case of a declaration of guilt without the imposition of a penalty or in the case of the imposition of a prison sentence of very short duration, e.g. because of greatly reduced accountability, there may be a special circumstance which would give rise to the withdrawal of the Dutch citizenship. I say to Mrs Wezel that, of course, minority can also be a special circumstance to refrain from withdrawing Dutch citizenship. However, minority does not stand in the way of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, but it does not stand in the way of the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship by definition either. I also note that it is frequent for minors to leave for Syria on their own, especially abroad. This generally does not happen or does not happen anymore with the aim of providing humanitarian aid there. Mrs Duthler asked how the balance of interests was reflected in the decision and how the judge then assessed it. Of course, the person concerned is given the opportunity to express his views on the proposed decision to withdraw from the Netherlands. The decision to withdraw the Dutch citizenship takes the form of a full and identifiable consideration of his personal interests and the interests of the State. Following the objection against the withdrawal, the interests may be re-examined. The court shall then review the decision on the objection on the basis of the facts and circumstances known at the time of the decision to object. The administrative judge assesses whether it has been reasonably decided to withdraw the Dutch citizenship. All the above is provided for in all legal guarantees known to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u18	This was a little fast. It is about weighing up the personal interests and interests of the State. I understand the interests of the state, but what should I think about the personal interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u19	That's really a little bit of coffee-dipping. I find that hard to do here. We've already identified that underage can play a role in that. The same applies to the extent of the penalty imposed by the court and to the possibility of accountability. I can also imagine you looking at the effects on the person and on his environment before you reach such a decision. These seem to me in a general sense to be elements you'll be looking at. You should also look at it, because it is a heavy substance, even if it is not of a punitive nature. It will have consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u20	The Minister states that the judge will be reluctant to consider whether the decision could have been taken in a reasonable manner. At least that's how I understand his answer. If you look at the Charter, which is applicable, you will see in Article 47 on the right to an effective remedy that this review must be complete. The judge must therefore be able to look very closely at these interests. He should be able to investigate whether it can take that decision. What kind of review does the Minister propose? Does he want to do it like he did in the Awb? Or does he recognise that there should also be a Union law explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u21	I think it should be about the explanation as in the Netherlands for all major decisions under the Awb by the administrative judge. It should therefore not deviate from the ordinary review, which, in my opinion, is generally perceived by everyone as a fairly thorough review of the reasons for a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u22	So, with my group, the Minister is of the opinion that Union law is applicable? Should it therefore take place in accordance with Union law and the Charter?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u23	I believe that it should be as it is in line with our legal standards and the agreements we have made, and as it always is. This is a decision of the Minister, of an administrative body, which is open to objections and appeals. That will not be treated differently than usual. The same applies to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u24	I'm missing an answer to my question. Are Union law and the Charter applicable to these procedures?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u25	I shall come back to that in the second term. One thing is certain: I am not aware that there are any objections to the way in which the administrative judge in the Netherlands reviews decisions of administrative bodies in the professional phase. The same review will also have to be applied by the Administrative Court to this decision. But I will return to the Charter in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u26	I hear the Minister coming back to what he said in the Lower House. There he indicated that the personal circumstances, the consequences and the humanitarian consequences for these persons were indeed taken into account. Now it is limited to the review in administrative law. This is a marginal test, which only looks at legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u27	I'll repeat what I just read. The decision to withdraw the Dutch citizenship takes the form of a full and identifiable consideration of his personal interests and the interests of the State. That's what I just said, and that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u28	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u29	I would like to come back to another phrase which the Minister read out. He said it's not a punitive measure. I hope he will deal with this in more detail later, because perhaps he has seen that various groups, including mine, in the written and oral debate, have asked the question under what circumstances a person whose passport is withdrawn and who is deprived of citizenship would not be able to accept such a measure as a punishment. "Punitive" means "punishment," "punishable." The minister says, no, it's not a punishment. That may be formal, because it is not from the criminal court, but from the administrative court. But in a substantive sense, it is not different from a criminal measure, is it? Or does the Minister have a special consideration about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u30	Mr Schrijver had already asked that question and I had prepared myself for it. I'll bring that up. I'll give you the answer now. Let me put this in front of you. Mr Schrijver just said: to withdraw the passport and to take away the Dutchmanship. Those are two different things. There is already the power in the Netherlands to sign a passport for revocation. This has an effect on the ability to travel, but has no effect on citizenship. I wanted to say that for the sake of clarity. This is really about citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u31	For clarity: therefore I used the intermediate word "and": to withdraw the passport and to deprive the Dutchmanship. I think if you take away the Dutchmanship, you'll withdraw the passport as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u32	Yeah, but not the other way around. On the other hand, you can signal a passport for withdrawal, but that does not mean that someone loses their citizenship. I am now trying to find my text on the lack of punitive character, but I cannot find it so quickly. Then it'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u33	Mr. Schrijver indicated that it would be okay to do so later.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u34	Mr Schrijver asked for confirmation that the withdrawal was not automatic. I'd like to confirm that here. The starting point is that, following such an irrevocable criminal law regulation, withdrawal takes place for this fact and the other facts, unless a different consideration is made. It contains the lack of automaticity. This balance must always be made on the basis of proportionality. I have already indicated to Mrs Strik the circumstances in which, among other things, this can play a role. Mr Schrijver also asked if I could confirm once again, for the sake of clarity in the Acts, that it can only be done after an irrevocable criminal regulation. I can confirm that. That's what the law says. I have already indicated to Mrs Strik that the penalty ultimately determined by the judge may be part of that proportionality weighting. Mr Van Dijk asked why there was no choice to lose citizenship if someone participated in a terrorist organisation such as IS. He also pointed out that this was perhaps the idea behind the Dijkhoff motion at the time. Perhaps the Dijkhoff motion was not dealt with literally, but certainly in spirit. In the government's view, it is undesirable to significantly increase the legal vulnerability of the loss of Dutch citizenship when joining a terrorist organisation. I also think that the automatic loss of Dutch citizenship makes it impossible to make that assessment. I think that proportional consideration is very important. In this case, these are certainly the nature of the conduct and possibly the penalty imposed by the court. That is why the automatic loss of Dutch citizenship has been waived. It was in 2010 and it is still so. For this reason, careful consideration has always been sought. Mr Van Dijk also asked whether the government could give a further weighting to the fact that in the case of fraud, statelessness is permitted when terrorism is not possible. I have also said in the House of Representatives that I can very well imagine that there were MPs at the time, and here I am also tasting this at the SGP, but perhaps also at the PVV at the mouth of Mr Markuszower, who wondered why we are being restricted by statelessness. As I pointed out in my introduction, it is often said that these are people who do not have anything with the Dutch State, who do not want to recognise Dutch standards and values and who want to violate the Dutch rule of law. The question arises as to why these people should be entitled to citizenship if they do not have a second nationality. There are two things we need to distinguish from each other. If there is fraud, which Mr Van Dijk asked for, this is a situation in which fraud was committed at the time of obtaining nationality. The basis for nationality has never been complete because of fraud in obtaining that nationality. If the correct facts had been known to the authorities, the Dutch community would never have been granted. Therefore, the fraud element is not comparable to the situation referred to in Article 134a Sr. At the same time, the government takes good account of the agreements we have made internationally, in which, for understandable reasons, we have established statelessness as undesirable. That is why the government will not be able to meet Mr Van Dijk's wishes. Mrs Wezel asked whether the government intends to consult another State or another State on the decision to withdraw nationality. That is not the case. There will be no consultation with the country of second nationality. Mr Schrijver asked whether it was no longer obvious for the criminal court to impose the withdrawal. This was not the case in principle, not even in 2010. After all, there is now only one ground added to the list of offences that we have decided on with great agreement with both Chambers. Therefore, it is not reasonable to opt for criminal law for this ground, Article 134a, whereas together we did not explicitly choose to do so. I therefore see no reason to reconsider the existing system. Moreover, I believe that there are sufficient safeguards in the answer to the questions put by Mr Schrijver, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u35	I understand very well that the Minister does not see any possibility of this in this relatively small legislative proposal, but I would ask him more in a general sense what he thinks of the idea behind this suggestion. Does he feel that this should actually be a jurisdiction of the criminal court rather than of the minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u36	I do not think I sympathise with Mr Schrijver and his group on this point. The Dutch Federation is more of an administrative matter than a criminal one. I really think it should be the government. After all, the government also grants Dutch citizenship. It is not up to the judge, but to the board, the government, to make a proposal to His Majesty the King. I do that almost every day now, with great pleasure. It is therefore reasonable for the government to take responsibility for its withdrawal instead of the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u37	Fortunately, I can largely agree with the Minister because he does much more than withdraws. The granting of a passport, the granting of citizenship of our country, is, of course, a competence of the executive and not of the judiciary. The withdrawal of this is something very far-reaching. That should be the case, at least, after a very extensive legal procedure. I have no doubt that all this will take place in the head of the Minister, but it is important in a rule of law that this can be fully tested. We're only gonna get out of this with the administrative judge. We have previously noted that, especially in the case of the Administrative Court of the Council of State, such a full review is not possible. That is why the concept of "marginal review" has become a priority. Does the Minister feel with us in this explanation that there is some difficulty in withdrawing citizenship?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u38	No. The awkwardness, I can imagine. After all, this is a very serious matter. However, I cannot sympathise because I do not feel that the system we have chosen is not well thought out. We have been thinking for a long time about how the judge reviews the administrative decisions. By the way, there has been a very nice polemic between Mr Loeff and another legal scholar whose name has now escaped me. At the time, we deliberately opted for this system because we wanted the administration to be governed and at the same time we wanted the judge to check whether that decision was reasonable. Moreover, in many cases, the judge concludes that this is not the case. I don't have to tell Mr. Writer. It is therefore not the case that the administrative judge in the Netherlands operates as a stamp machine and says: what a good idea, board, go ahead. I think that, with that background and with the same integrity that I expect from the judges of the administration, which I recognise, it will also go into this point, as happened in 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u39	I'm going to go back to the point of how this went in 2010. We just took the pieces and in 2010 it was very different. At that time there was a proposal to tighten up the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap with rules regarding the surrender of the nationality of the country of origin. At the time, we were talking about an order measure, but it was in a different tone than the tone that is being used today. Now there is talk of "absent unless there are circumstances." But in 2010 there was a completely different situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u40	But the principle is no different than in 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u41	In 2010 it was brought quite different. That was also the reason why there was a very different debate at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u42	But the question that arose in 2010 was whether the Lower House, the Upper Chamber and the Government consider it appropriate to be able to withdraw Dutch citizenship if people commit very serious terrorist crimes. The answer given at that time is: yes, we think so. That's the same answer I came to your room for today. We would like to add one additional article because we see that, given the current situation of Syrians and the way in which terrorist offences are dealt with now, there is a need to be able to withdraw from this point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u43	For the Acts, I would like to state that, in view of the 2010 report, it was different at the time than it is now and that it is therefore not a logical follow-up to the 2010 debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u44	That's what I'm establishing. I am happy to answer Mrs Wezel's other questions. It asked for a response to the point that it might be contrary to Article 7 (1) (c) of the European Convention on Nationality (EVN) if the Dutch citizenship is withdrawn after conviction of Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law, while there has been no serious damage to the essential interests of the State. That is how I understood Mrs Wezel's question. The list of crimes in the state law is a concreteisation of the concept of "serious violation of the essential interests of the Dutch state." This is included in Article 7 (d) of the EVN. It is not necessary to determine in each individual case whether irrevocable conviction for the crime is indeed a serious violation of the essential interests of the Dutch State. As I have already said, in all individual cases proportionality is being weighed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u45	Do I understand from your words that you are actually saying that if a crime has been committed under Article 134a, which in principle is already a sign of a serious violation of an essential importance? Or are you saying that it is not necessary to examine whether there is a breach of essential importance in every individual situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u46	In my view, this is how it works: if a conviction is made for Article 134a or any of the other articles of law adopted under the functioning of this system, then it automatically violates the interests of the Dutch State, but that does not mean that the Netherlands is being withdrawn. Then there is a 'yes, unless', where proportionality and personal consideration apply, taking into account all the circumstances involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u47	I would like to return to the situation in which the judge sentenced someone to one or two years' imprisonment. Then there does not always have to be a serious violation of an essential interest of the Dutch State? That's another thing than making a balance of interest in that case. If you have to consider that there is no serious breach of essential importance here, you will not even be able to pass that proportionality test.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u48	I do not agree with Mrs Strik on that last point. If the criminal court has irrevocably, so probably in several instances, reached the conclusion that a conviction is appropriate under Article 134a, then there is an act which, in the opinion of the criminal court, is so serious that you can speak of a serious violation of the interests of the Dutch State. This means that the threshold has been crossed which could lead to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. Then the rule is that that withdrawal takes place, unless. Then you fill in the proportionality and the personal consideration that I have already outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u49	Then we don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u50	The penalty is, of course, one of them, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u51	It's like the Minister wants to catch the train. It would be nice if he adjusted his pace a bit, so that what he says can also get through to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u52	I'll try!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u53	I find it hard to ask the Minister to slow down, Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u54	Of course we don't want to fall asleep, but this is happening very quickly. Article 7 of the European Convention on Nationality provides: "A State which is a Party may not, in its national law, provide for the loss of its nationality by law or on the initiative of the State which is a Party, except in the following cases:... d. conduct which seriously harms the essential interests of the State which is a Party; (...) " The Minister says that, in the event of a conviction under Article 134a, there is by definition conduct which harms the essential interests of the State which is a Party, but that is not always the case. That is what the Minister himself states in the documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u55	Yeah, it's not always the case, but it's basically the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u56	If it is not always the case, then Article 7 of the European Convention does not allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u57	There can only be a withdrawal of nationality if the requirements set out in the European Convention and in Dutch law are met. That is the starting point. If the description of the offences referred to in the law, which may lead, is fulfilled...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u58	No, you're turning it around now. A conviction under Article 134a does not always involve conduct that seriously harms the essential interests of the State party. By including 134a fully in 14 (2) you create the situation that in those other cases, where no damage is caused, Dutch citizenship can also be deprived. You say that this is the logical consequence of the 134a violation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u59	Mrs Wezel, there is also a second term. This was your third interruption in this little debate. You should have kept that short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u60	I have to go back to the description of the crime in Article 134a. What's there is quite a bit. This isn't about people on Twitter saying what they think of anything. This concerns people who make a very concrete contribution to the possibility of a terrorist offence. That's not nothing. It's up to the criminal court to decide whether or not you're convicted of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u61	Mr President, the first two questions were about the train and this concerns the content of the legislative proposal. So we can do it again in a moment, but the Minister is simply not answering my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u62	You can see that, but I would suggest that you raise this again in the second term if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u63	The first two concerned order situations, which is quite different from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u64	You asked the Minister a question. I suggest the Minister responds. If you are not satisfied with this, you will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u65	Let me repeat the way I look at it. If you are irrevocably convicted by the criminal court for a crime as defined in Article 134a, presumably in several instances, there are very serious crimes which, in the government's view, lead to a violation of the interests of the State. The whole basis of this bill is that it justifies the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. We have then said that this will happen unless the proportionality weighting and the balancing of personal interests show that this is not indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u66	I'm going back to the core; that might save a second term. The Minister says, therefore, that we can conclude from an irrevocable conviction by a criminal court that, according to the judge, there has apparently been a serious fact that has affected essential interests of the State. The Minister should consider whether he is actually going to implement his administrative measure by taking down Dutch citizenship. I can now hear the Minister say that he can come to the conclusion that the fact is not so serious and that it is not so essential to affect the interests of the State that that measure needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u67	It's possible. It may also be that the personal interests of the person concerned imply that in the final weighing you come to the conclusion that you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u68	That is the principle that it is not automatic. The Minister said that if the judge were to give a judgment, it would appear to be necessary to draw the conclusion that the judgment of the court concerned a serious fact affecting essential interests. So it stops in the legal procedure and we start again in the administrative procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u69	That's right. That is with all the guarantees that belong around it in our rule of law. Then I try to answer Mr Schrijver's and Mrs Strik's questions on Union law and its application. Mr Schrijver said: let's bet a good bottle of wine on that. I've learned never to do that, so I won't take that bet. But I'm always very interested to talk to Mr. Writer about that good bottle of wine. Let us say first of all that nationality law is also primarily seen under European law as a national competence, but Mr Schrijver knows that many times better than I do. Through the Union citizenship link, there is a link with European law. The Netherlands considers itself bound by these limits, as the government firmly believes in the legislative proposal. I would point out to Mrs Strik that the overall review of administrative law is in line with European law and is therefore not contrary to Article 47 of the Charter. It is an effective remedy. Marginal scrutiny is also, as I have just said, in line with the separation of powers. The Steering Board shall manage, make a proper assessment and shall also duly motivate it. The judge shall assess whether the board has been able to reach that decision in reasonable terms. This is how we set up our system. In doing so, I recognise the Union's obligations under Article 47 of the Charter. Mr van Dijk has asked whether I have received information from the Council of Europe on the vision and working methods of other treaty states. The secretariat of the Council of Europe has indicated that it has no role to play here. Member States have therefore been approached directly on this issue through the contacts of the Council of Europe. Several responses have been received. The practice appears to be very diverse. None of the countries has indicated that they have concrete plans to cross the borders of the ECN. For some countries, the national constitution precludes the withdrawal of nationality on the initiative of the State. This applies, for example, to Poland, Sweden, the Czech Republic and Finland. Denmark and Belgium have indicated in their response that they wish to respect the limits of the EVN, although Belgium itself has not ratified the EVN. In Germany, withdrawal is not possible where this leads to statelessness. This makes the German system comparable to that of the Netherlands. Germany is considering incorporating the same possibility into the law as the Netherlands is doing now. Italy has not ratified the EVN, but it has lost ground in which statelessness may be at issue. There is also a social debate in France at the moment about increasing the possibility of withdrawing French nationality. In the meantime, the United Kingdom seems to be the only country that accepts statelessness in any form. This may be explained by the fact that the United Kingdom is not a party to the EVN either. Mrs Wezel has asked if I can guarantee that those who are being deported will not be tortured if it is known in that country that it is a terrorist. It goes without saying that the person whose Dutch citizenship is withdrawn is also subject to an entry ban. The risk of a person returning to inhuman treatment is always part of the decision to impose an entry ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u70	Does the Minister consider, after he has drawn up that list and mentioned countries such as Italy and England, that countries that have not ratified those conventions, that ECHR, are better off fighting terrorism? If the Netherlands were not a treaty partner, would the Minister now have more resources to fight terrorism, as England apparently has? And would he have liked that better?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u71	The fight against terrorism consists of many measures other than the withdrawal of citizenship after an irrevocable criminal conviction. There are very good reasons for choosing to prevent statelessness at the time. That is also why many countries have ratified and signed the conventions that see them. Being stateless can have very serious consequences. I do not think that in itself affects the fight against terrorism. The withdrawal of citizenship does, of course, help to prevent a person from committing a terrorist attack in the Netherlands or to facilitate someone for that purpose through the rights attached to Dutch citizenship, for example on the grounds that such a person can travel freely in the Schengen area. I was in the process of answering Mrs Wezel's question. She asked about the risk of torture. I repeat and hereby confirm that there is no expulsion of the person concerned if it is to be assumed that there is a risk of torture. That is also the policy of the Dutch Government. Mr Van Dijk then raised an issue which has already given rise to a number of questions. Can the death penalty play a role in this respect that the Netherlands, so early on, Mr Van Dijk, is prepared to allow the extradition of terrorists to countries where the death penalty can be imposed? I would like to point out that the Dutch Constitution prohibits the death penalty and that, in the view of the Dutch Government, the introduction of the death penalty is contrary to the international obligations of the Netherlands. The cabinet has no intention of making any change to that. I note that Osama bin Laden was the example of Mr Van Dijk if he had been arrested in the Netherlands, could have been extradited to the US, but that the Netherlands would have asked for the guarantee, as we always do, that the death penalty could not be enforced after a conviction has taken place. Mr Van Dijk, Mr Markuszower and Mrs Bikker have asked whether it is not a good idea to revise the Treaty because of the interpretation of the European Court of Justice which is contrary to the text of the European Convention on Nationality. It is, of course, not for me to judge the interpretation of the European Court in the light of the Treaty of the Council of Europe. I can only try to take the best possible account of the limits imposed on us by the Court and the European Convention on Nationality. I do this by creating room for the withdrawal of nationality, but at the same time keeping an eye on the need for proportionality. There is therefore no reason for me to initiate a revision of the Treaty. Mr Van Dijk asked whether, outside the context of Union citizenship or statelessness, there would be room for legal loss. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that there seems to be a strict margin for automatic loss in those cases, but that is very complicated because the second nationality of the person concerned would then determine the way in which the loss takes place. In that case, a person of German nationality could automatically lose his nationality, while a person of Moroccan nationality, for example, could lose his citizenship by withdrawing Dutch citizenship. Perhaps that would make little difference in effect, and I admit that to Mr Van Dijk, but it makes things much more complicated and therefore the government has not chosen to do so. Mr Schrijver asked whether it was in accordance with the child's right to apply the bill to children. At this point, the system of the law as it already exists is not changed. Under the current state law, the Dutch citizenship of minors can also be withdrawn. I do not see why this would not be in line with the Charter or the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In all cases, these are young adults. In all the cases we know now, there are eight of them, they are young adults. Young children will not, or always will, be subject to reduced criminal liability. Furthermore, in criminal law too, minors are not excluded by definition, but I would point out that in the individual balance of interests, the minority of the person concerned can of course also be taken into account. I come to the point of discrimination. Several Members have asked about the relationship of this proposal with discrimination. In the government's view, as with the existing legislation, there is no question of legal inequality. In the case of persons with a single nationality, statelessness is caused and this is not the case in the case of persons with a multiple nationality. The distinction between single and multiple-nationals is justified by the importance of preventing statelessness. The seriousness of the breach of the rule of law is not decisive in this respect. This means that a person of multiple nationality is not equal to a person of single nationality. As in 2010, the proposed regulation is therefore perfectly compatible with the ECHR, the IVBPR and the UN Convention on the Status of stateless persons. Mrs Strik asked me to respond to the ruling in Hode and Abdi against the United Kingdom. This judgment refers to unequal treatment between students and workers on the one hand and refugees who were married prior to the flight on the other, with regard to the right to family life and specifically with regard to obtaining a short-stay permit. The Court does not consider this unequal treatment to be in line with Articles 8 and 14 of the ECHR. I do not see, given what I have just said about the comparison and lack of equality between the two cases, how this judgment could be relevant to the present legislative proposal. But I suspect Mrs. Strik doesn't feel the same way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u72	Looks that way. She has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u73	I believe that the Minister said earlier in the written reply that we are dealing with equal situations. In any case, this was made very clear by the Minister in 2010. It was made very clear at the time: there are similar cases, but in one case I have an obligation to prevent statelessness, so I cannot withdraw. So we're dealing with identical cases. In the case of Hode and Abdi, there were indeed similar cases; that is recognised by the UK and recognised by the ECHR. From the UK's action, one group I have to deal with differently in relation to international obligations, the Court said that this was not sufficient justification for that unequal treatment. That is why I see absolutely a parallel with this situation. The same crime has been committed and people are therefore in the same situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u74	I don't see that. I understand very well what Mrs Strik is saying, but this is about the situation in which someone has a multiple nationality and someone else has a single nationality. That doesn't make those two even. That they committed the same crime, I agree with Mrs. Strik. So they are completely equal in relation to the crime. You will be convicted under Article 134a or for any of the other crimes that have long been included in the law. You're no different in that. But in effect, you are. There is a difference, because we all recognise that the development of the Dutch law must not lead to statelessness. There is therefore a difference between the two cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u75	Could any other justification not be that the perpetrators, because they themselves seek a less lasting connection to the State, are less entitled to equal treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u76	I have to think about that for a while, but I honestly do not think so, because the connection with our country is in some sense not a basis for consideration when assessing whether the Dutch are being withdrawn. What all the people who are condemned under Article 134a or for one of the other already existing terrorist crimes have in common is that they are fighting the Dutch State and the Dutch standards and values. In that sense, I see no difference between the two. Mr Van Dijk asked a question that was also asked in the Lower House by the group chairman there, Mr Van der Staaij. What opportunities does the government see for reducing the inequality between terrorists by restricting the rights of the Dutch? I have already said, on a note submitted by Mr Van der Staaij on this subject, that I will examine that thought together with my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations Office. That investigation is still ongoing. I will inform the House of Representatives in due course. I come to the issue of transitional rights. Mrs Bikker, Mr Engels and Mrs Strik asked whether it was a punitive measure or not. I would also like to reply to Mr Schrijver on this point. When are we talking about a punitive measure in the Netherlands? In the end, the Court can issue a review. The Court has examined several times whether there is a criminal charge. At that time, the Court also examined in substance whether there was a criminal charge and held that the concept should be interpreted autonomously. Three criteria were then formulated to assess whether a particular measure could be classified as a criminal charge. The first is the classification of the measure under national law. The second is the purpose of the measure. The third is the seriousness and effect of the measure imposed. According to the classification of national law, the first element, there is an administrative measure in this case. The measure is not intended to constitute a punitive sanction or deterrent. The goal is not to add suffering either. Mr Schrijver asked in the first term whether the Minister could rule out the possibility that it would be experienced in this way. Of course, that is not a standard we have established in the law. It is not a standard that what is experienced as a punitive measure also determines whether it is a punitive measure. I admit, losing Dutch citizenship can be seen as a punitive measure. However, when I look at the target group we are talking about, this will in many cases not be seen at all as a punitive measure. On the contrary, the Dutchmanship and everything that the Netherlands and the Dutchmanship stand for are rejected. The seriousness of the measure may give rise to its classification as a criminal charge, but several countries already have the possibility of withdrawing their own nationality as an administrative measure. The withdrawal of nationality has so far never been regarded as a criminal charge in justice in the countries around us. The bill also does not entail any new criminalisation. The first sentence of Article 7 ECHR shall not apply. The question is whether there is a heavier penalty within the meaning of the second sentence of Article 7 ECHR. This is not the case in the Government's view either. There is therefore no reason to believe that the transitional right is contrary to Article 7 of the ECHR and is therefore declared unbinding. In Welch v. United Kingdom, the European Court of Human Rights set out the criteria for determining whether this sentence applies. These criteria, which must be considered in conjunction, are: does the measure follow a criminal conviction, what are the nature and purpose of the measure, what is the qualification under national law, what procedure does the measure take and is it imposed and what is the gravity of the measure? The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship follows a criminal conviction. Moreover, it is a relatively heavy measure. We agree on that. Then you could be thinking that there is a penalty, but on the other hand the measure does not automatically follow a criminal conviction, is not punitive in nature, as I have just substantiated and is not intended to be punitive, because it is a measure prepared and imposed by the administration under national law. This is preceded by an individual balancing of interests. Such measures can also be found in foreign law. As an example, I would like to mention the undesirable statement. Those measures, too, have never been assessed as penalty or criminal charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u77	The Minister has put a lot of emphasis on whether it is a punitive measure and whether it is covered by criminal law. Let us simply take the principle of legal certainty. These are or may be people who have already committed a crime at a time when the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship would not yet be the result of that crime. As a result of the entry into force of this law, if it is adopted, that may still be the result. Isn't that a source of tension with the principle of legal certainty and the principle of trust that we also have in administrative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u78	That is possible, but not such a degree of tension that we should have a different opinion on this. I remember that this discussion also took place during the review to the advantage and disadvantage. The discussion was also about retroactivity. I was there in a different capacity at the time. Anyway, then a majority of the First Chamber chose that retroactive power because of the importance of the situation. That goes for the same thing here. It is a matter of retroactive effect to the irrevocable conviction. If the irrevocable conviction falls before the entry into force of this law, it shall not apply. If it falls after that, then the law may apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u79	I understand that, but doesn't anyone have to be able to see the consequences of a crime before committing it? Someone hasn't been able to foresee it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u80	I understand that Mrs Strik says that, but I would like to refer to the nature of the crime that is being committed. It's not theft. In many cases, the person concerned assumes that he himself will not see the start of the criminal case because he has left elsewhere. This really concerns people who deliberately choose to contribute, as stated in Article 134a, in a structural way, according to the criminal court to the extent that an irrevocable conviction is appropriate, to enable a serious terrorist offence to be committed. In view of the importance of society and the importance of the Netherlands not to have these people in the Netherlands and not to have them back in the Netherlands, I really think that the transitional law and the way in which the government has chosen it should apply in this case. D66 has said that cooperation and tailor-made work are important to reduce the dangers of a jihadist movement. The party wonders how the bill fits into the approach of jihadism. Let me say first of all that Mr Engels is absolutely right when he says that cooperation and customization are the key words for a successful approach to jihadism. This is also the starting point of the action programme that I am implementing together with my colleague, Mr Asscher, on Social Affairs and Employment. There must be a balance between, on the one hand, the integrated approach to jihadism, i.e. prevention, and, on the other hand, its repression. Those two together offer the possibility, depending on the case in the local case, to take a package of measures to minimise the risks posed by a person as effectively as possible. The government's commitment is to keep people in the Netherlands, not to encourage them to leave and thus solve the problem. Measures have recently been taken in a number of areas leading to much more support in the context of prevention. An example of this is the so-called exit path, in which jihadists can be specifically involved in a deradicalisation programme to get them out of the group of radicalized individuals. In addition, the family support programme is very important, in which families of people who radicalize are eligible to be supported and helped in deradicalising the person who threatens to radicalize or leave. These are two important and recent steps in the action programme which have also been implemented. Wherever possible, efforts will always be made to release a person from his radical ideas and return to full participation in society. That is also the government's starting point. A package of measures is available in the action programme, which the Cabinet considers to be necessary in a number of respects. For example, the cabinet wants to increase the administrative capacity to protect national security. With this bill, the cabinet also wants to further protect the interests of the state. Mr Rombouts and Mrs Bikker have said: make haste with prevention and with the prevention of radicalisation. To show that haste, I just indicated which programs there are. Those programmes have also been launched recently. Implementation of the action programme is under way. The cabinet reports on this regularly. The prevention of growth for the jihadist movement is an explicit part of this. The cabinet considers it very important that there is not only a focus on repression, but certainly also on prevention. Because here too: prevention is much better than cure. If a person goes over the line, criminal action will have to be taken where necessary. Following an irrevocable conviction, this bill may apply. Mr Markuszower asked whether the legislation could not be much faster. The government is not just about that, I say diplomatically. The cabinet follows the planning as agreed with the parliament. Of course, we fully support Mr Markuszower's idea of speed. However, the preservation of the rule of law, which we all want to protect, and the maintenance of care, are also necessary. The legislative proposals of this cabinet are complementary to the current instruments. The cabinet is already putting the available resources into the fight against jihadism. Mrs Duthler asked what measures have already been implemented. For this purpose, I would like to refer her to the reports on the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme. We report on progress four times a year to the House of Representatives. The execution is on steam. All the measures that are now in place are being applied with great regularity. Mrs Wezel asked how often Dutch citizenship has so far been withdrawn. Mr Schrijver and Mrs Bikker have also asked for this. The answer is that there has not been a withdrawal, because there have been no cases where the requirements have been met. The sentences that will now be issued will always assess whether the conditions for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship have been met. As I said at the beginning, eight people have since been prosecuted under Article 134a of the Code of Criminal Law. Six have been convicted and two have been acquitted, but both the acquittals and the convictions are not irrevocable, because there is still an appeal in all these cases. Furthermore, I can inform the Members of the Chamber that there are currently 80 criminal investigations into 100 suspects of terrorist offences.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u81	I have a question the Minister may not be able to answer suddenly. I have here a court ruling of 27 January 2015 in which a suspect was convicted of Article 134a with a prison sentence of one and a half years. I do not find that prison sentence very interesting at the moment, but this is a case of irrevocable conviction. Did they go into cassation here? Are there any more judgments like this? Maybe in the meantime, the Minister can have his officials find out about that ruling of 27 January 2015, ECLI:EN:GHDHA:2015:83.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u82	I do need to find out, because for that I do not have the answer ready. I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u83	May I also add a question to the wish list of selected items? Just before Mrs. Duthler interrupted, the Minister reported that there are 80 criminal investigations in progress against about 100 persons suspected of terrorist offences. Does all this mean that there are suspicions within the scope of Article 134a, which is the subject of today's debate? Or is that in general? That first one would surprise me very much. If it is in general, then your remark is very interesting to take note of, but I do not think there are many similarities with the debate on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u84	No, this is really about all terrorist crimes and certainly not just about Article 134a.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u85	You already scared me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u86	That's why I said it exactly as I said it. It concerns 80 investigations into 100 suspects suspected of terrorist offences in the broad sense, and certainly not only within Article 134a. Mrs Wezel asked if I think there is a security risk by taking away the Dutch. Looking at what these people have been irrevocably convicted of, I do not think it is likely that the reduction of Dutch citizenship increases their security risk. We are already talking about people who are seriously at risk of security. That's why the government is putting this measure in the First Chamber tonight. If citizenship is lost, it is also the aim to remove someone from the Netherlands. That's how we mitigate the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u87	I would like to mention an example of a boy of Moroccan descent who cannot be deported after he has been deprived of Dutch citizenship. Then what could happen to that person at that time? He can't work. What's he gonna live on? This could create security risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u88	I would like to remind Mrs Wezel of the following. When we are talking about people who have been convicted by the criminal court for a crime in which they have committed themselves specifically, structurally and intentionally to cooperate in or facilitate a terrorist offence, we are talking about people who have been convicted of Article 134a. This means that this person is a security risk and that he is harmful to the interests of the Dutch State. That is why we choose to make this option possible. This means that it must always be considered whether expulsion is possible in an individual case. Also for Morocco, expulsion is never possible in advance, but may be difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u89	If it's not possible, what do you do with it? Then what do you do with someone like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u90	Then we will have to do everything we do now to protect Dutch society from such a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u91	May I ask the Minister how much longer he will need?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u92	I have two more questions from Mrs Bikker and Mrs Wezel. Ms Bikker asked why the State Committee on Private International Law and the Advisory Committee on Civil State and Nationality were not involved in the consultation. I note that the bill has been widely consulted. This bill has no implications for private international law. Nor have I seen any need to consult the Advisory Committee on Civil Status and Nationality, because this is particularly important if the legislative proposal has a much broader impact than only on the work of the government. The last question was from Mrs Wezel. She asked for my response to the opinion of the Council of State of November 2015. In my view, the opinion which Mrs Wezel referred to on another bill, namely the Bill amending the National Law on the Netherlands in relation to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security, saw. I submitted that bill to the Dutch Parliament on 7 December 2015. In due course, I will be happy to discuss this opinion with the First Chamber when the bill has arrived. This brings me to the end of my answer to the questions put.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u93	Thank you. We shall then have to wait for the second term on the side of the Chamber. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union had to leave the meeting earlier because of illness. I call Mr Rombouts.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I'm glad he got to my question, too, because that was just one. The answer to that was a joyous vote for our group. He actually says: prevention is better than cure and, moreover, measures in the field of prevention may have a wider scope and a more integrated nature. That is why I am going to propose to my group to vote in favour of this bill, especially now that the Minister has explicitly said that he is in a hurry to implement the measures in the plan of action jihadism.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u95	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions raised in the debate and, of course, for the debate itself. I am pleased to hear that fortunately this is still a relatively small number of potential perpetrators of this indeed serious crime. At the same time, we should not make it bigger than it is. We are talking about the provision of hand-out services, however serious this may be in specific circumstances, but it is not about terrorist crimes as such. In the Minister's replies, I noticed that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship under the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap has not so far taken place and that this particular article has so far produced a small number of prosecutions, six of which are actually still under judicial review. At some point I got the impression that the Minister suggested that all eight cases concerned young adults. Did I understand that correctly or is that not the case? In any event, he said that he did not rule out the possibility of withdrawing the Netherlands in such cases. I conclude from this that when it comes to children who are not yet young adults, so who are 15 years of age or younger, he may be able to agree that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship can never be considered if the parents are resident here and have Dutch nationality. I welcomed the Minister's comments on the deradicalisation programme, family support and exit strategy. Let us hope that a very preventive effect can be taken on the immediate living environment. I thank the Minister once again for answering the questions. I will be happy to give the advice to my group to consider voting in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u96	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his prompt response to the point. Some people use a multitude of words to compensate for a lack of depth, but this minister manages to combine a multitude of words with depth, for which compliments. Those who commit themselves to terrorism or to its preparation, and thus try to disrupt our free society, are unworthy of Dutch citizenship. In such cases, depriving the Netherlands should be done with as little detour as possible. As far as the SGP is concerned, that should be the clear signal from this bill. The SGP regrets that the legislative proposal, after all, is only a rather thin deduction of the original intentions, as expressed at the time in the Dijkhoff motion, the starting point for this bill. The SGP will therefore vote in favour of this bill, but not with too much enthusiasm. Of course, the comments made by the Minister on the extradition of terrorists to countries where they can receive the death penalty were not surprising, but rather somewhat disappointing. After all, I still find it rather presumptuous to refuse the extradition of terrorists, for example to the United States, decisively if they can possibly receive the death penalty there. They are our ally in the fight against terror. It is not up to us, as a dot on the globe, to dictate to such democratic states of the rule of law what penalty they may or may not apply. Anyone who lets 9/11 or Paris work in itself will be able to ask how long this beautiful weather legislation will prove to be sustainable. I hope for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u97	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group thanks the Minister for answering the questions. As the minister pointed out, these are often young adults, mostly with a ggz background. It is therefore important to look very carefully at what is happening to these young people. In the case law you can also see that the judges are punishing very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u98	I just have a question about the ggz background of the people who are covered. Does the Secretary of State endorse that? Do most of the suspects covered indeed have a ggz background?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u99	I've got a source.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u100	I'm not gonna say anything. I'm not gonna... I'm gonna... I'm
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u101	I'll give you the hyperlink in a minute. HTTP://www.elsevier.nl/Netherlands/background/2015/6/Many-Syriegangers-are-psychically-disturbed--1772785W/ This is an article from Elsevier in June 2015, which shows that many Syrians have a mental disorder. It is therefore important, in the view of the SP Group, to look carefully at how these people are treated. After all, they're still people. The SP Group has supported its objections to the legislative proposal. The Minister has not been able to remove all these objections. The SP Group cannot therefore accept this bill, but the Minister may have already made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u102	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by thanking the Minister on behalf of the D66 groups and the OSF for his reply. I would like to continue by saying at least two things about my support for the cabinet and the minister. Firstly, I would like to express my support for the fact that the Minister has made it very clear that he does not wish to interfere with the constitutional and treaty-law ban on the death penalty. He doesn't want to mess with that, as the SGP suggested. I also support the cabinet's intention not to mortify existing conventions that guarantee fundamental rights, as proposed by the PVV. In this context, I would like to point out that my group considers it very important to note that our legal system is based on a broad legal awareness among the legal partners in our society. It is therefore very good that exceptional or even extreme proposals which would like to infringe that legal order or that legal awareness should be adopted for notification. This is particularly true in the First Chamber, because we are primarily monitoring constitutionality and treaty conformity. These are key values that underpin our democratic rule of law. I find it extremely pleasurable that the Minister has made perfectly clear statements on this matter. I note that this is one of the rare occasions when the Minister and my group are on the same page. I'm gonna keep going. The Minister is starting to laugh suspiciously now, but he can also continue with that. I asked for the place of this bill in the broad approach to jihadism, because my group doubted whether that distinction and that positioning were absolutely clear and whether things were not going to get mixed up. But I understand that this bill is the key to tackling radicalisation and countering the degradation of the essential interests of the State. They must be defended. This is, in itself, an acceptable context, regardless of how in concrete cases the criminal court will judge and how, in concrete cases, administrative measures may subsequently be dealt with. That is a different story, but we are talking about the case. Let me say something about transitional rights. I agree with the Minister that we are talking very clearly and very dogmatically about an administrative measure. So we are not talking about a punitive measure. If we are not talking about a punitive measure, we must also note that the relationship with the term 'criminal charge' and even the term 'penalty' in the treaties is very difficult to construct. We should not do that, because then we are going to conjure up legal concepts. In this sense, it is important to note that the imposition of the measure is never an automatic measure. That is also a very important point. In particular, Mrs Strik raised the principle of legal certainty and the principle of trust. That's a relevant point. The view of our political groups is that the criminal procedure should be left out of the question for a moment, because that is another regime: in the event of a possible judicial review of an imposed measure, the administrative judge will consider to what extent the principle of legal certainty or the principle of trust could have been infringed. I have heard a number of times this evening that the administrative judge would only be a marginal judge, but I believe that this was the case 50 years ago. The Administrative Court shall fully review the legality of administrative decisions, including all general principles of good administration and other codified legal standards, as set out in the General Administrative Law. The administrative judge is also the Administrative Law Division of the Council of State, but I am not looking at anyone else in this regard, in the opinion of administrative bodies, even so far that this is often irritated. There is therefore no need to be concerned, because if there is a reason for a judicial review of an imposed measure, then all facts and circumstances, but also legality, are fully assessed and certainly not marginal. I shall propose to my group that the OSF should, of course, make its own assessment, but one will be aware with interest of what I have said here in order to accept the proposal. I would like to add that we do not think that the content of the legislative proposal adds much to the instruments that we already have. It is not very impressive, but we have not been able to see that there is a fundamental violation of constitutional, treaty or other legal principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u103	It is always nice to get a lesson from Mr Engels, but I wonder whether the remark that this has been the case for 50 years in the administrative court is no longer motivated by the euphoria about the 50th anniversary of D66 than by the fact that the General Administrative Law Act has existed for 50 years, which is not the case. There is indeed some concern, including in the literature, that the Department of Administrative Law is not always able to carry out a full assessment. Where tax law or that sort of thing is concerned, we can do it. I fully agree with him: a full review. However, especially with regard to these kinds of issues, when assessing a ministerial decision to the highest level, I think that a full review of the literature is not always common.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u104	I have to answer this, but unfortunately I will go through my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u105	You were over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u106	I'll try to temper the euphoria of my long-standing party. In any case, I did not intend to give a lesson to the very esteemed colleague. I'm just a simple state law teacher. Furthermore, I have very little sense of administrative law, and I would like to keep it that way. Apart from that: I remember so much about it, or think I know so much about it, that there are indeed nuances, but then we have to reason very subtlely. The principle is that the administrative judge can fully assess the legality of administrative action against legality criteria. Next, it will be discussed that it concerns the facts and circumstances surrounding a specific administrative measure. If there are interests involved and, in addition to the legality test, there is a balance of interests, the judge cannot always go so far in the balance of interests that it could be said that he is sitting too much on the seat of the board. On that one aspect of this balance of interests there is still a certain marginal review. However, the picture that has been sketched out here and there at least, I think I understand it from my relative incompetence, as if the administrative judge were merely a marginal judge and that this judicial review of possible measures imposed by the minister would be incomplete, is too far-reaching a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u107	Thank you, Mr Engels. In spite of your incompetence, you've convinced a Leiden professor to look like one. That's an achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u108	Euphoria again!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the first-term questions. The PVV is pleased that the Minister agrees with her that it is urgent to make new laws that can be instrumental in our fight against terror. However, our group is still concerned that, despite its word of agreement, this cabinet is failing to act and act in the fight against terrorism. I sincerely hope that this remark will make me wrong. The PVV is therefore looking forward to more anti-terrorist legislative proposals to be dealt with, which hopefully will be more substantial than the legislative proposal we are debating today. Our group will support this bill because, as I said earlier, something is better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u110	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his reply. This debate again shows that by extending the grounds for withdrawal by means of preparatory acts, all questions are serious violations of an essential importance, is it proportionate? Getting tighter as you move further away from the hardcore terrorist crime itself. That also makes sense to me. There has just been talk of a sentence to one and a half years. Then it becomes very important whether it is all heavy enough to move on to such a far-reaching measure. In any event, I have noted that an individual examination is taking place, whereby the criminality, the question of whether there is serious damage to an essential interest and all circumstances and interests are weighed and that that consideration is already made known in the decision itself, i.e. that it is substantiated and that a judicial review is taking place in accordance with Article 47 of the Charter. Mr Engels has already discussed the Awb in detail. It is good to stress that if there is to be a test of whether there has been an act of proportionality in accordance with the principle of Union law and there is a fundamental interest, a judge who must be able to carry out full scrutiny. I would like to draw attention to a thesis by Mrs Baldinger, "Rigorous scrutiny versus marginal review', from 2013, in which she specifically concluded that Article 47 requires this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u111	I do not want to leave aside the possible misunderstanding that Mrs Strik and I differ on this point, because that is not the case. As far as I have always referred to the General Administrative Law Act, I have therefore wished to argue that the main starting point to which the administrative judge assesses the action is whether there is a conflict with a higher regulation. That can be any high-level arrangement, including the one mentioned by Mrs Strik. In this sense, the General Administrative Law obliges the judge to take the above aspects into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u112	Fine, thank you. The Minister states that the judge can reasonably assess whether that decision could have been taken. That reeks a bit of a marginal test, while the judge must look at those facts and circumstances himself. Another point concerns discrimination. According to the Minister, there are no similar cases, so that reasoning does not apply. He has referred many times to 2010. That is why I looked at what the Minister said at the time. It says in the Acts that Mrs Quik-Schuijt asked what the difference is between a Dutch terrorist and someone with a dual nationality, a bipatride terrorist. The Minister said that there is no difference in principle; both break with the Dutch legal order. The limitation stems from our obligation to prevent statelessness. We have to accept that limitation. The Minister nods, but that is exactly what the ECHR has made very clear: an international obligation requires this group to be treated in this way. But that does not justify treating another group less favourably. Then you have no objective justification yet. About the withdrawal itself and the reason why I note the following. The Minister clearly stated that we do not want these people on our territory anymore, because that is unsafe. That's why we're gonna have to withdraw. This means that the Minister accepts that people elsewhere are a risk to security. Should we want to do that with our policies? If you do not withdraw, the judge could still impose conditions, such as remain under the supervision of the parole board. You could then exercise more control over them than you would when you evict them as soon as possible. In this case, it is quite cynical to note that we have just decided to terminate the agreement with Morocco, which could mean that we can no longer expel people. These are precisely those who cannot renounce their nationality. In particular, we are talking about those who can now be affected by the new law. Mrs Wezel was right to say that it would not be unrealistic to expect these people to walk around indestructible and be much more difficult to follow and control as an undesirable stranger. This raises questions about the effectiveness of this bill; it may even be counterproductive. The Minister does not consider the principle of legal certainty and the principle of trust as absolute as my group. Of course, we adhere to the General Administrative Law, but not to these crimes. That is not what we think, and we think it is crazy to make a distinction. It is precisely principles that must be applied consistently, that sign our rule of law, whatever actions we are talking about. In short, my group does not think this proposal is the right way forward and prefers the full functioning and effectiveness of our criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u113	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister indicated that it was a limited amendment to the state law, but it is about something. It is about serious crimes, about co-organising, preparing and assisting in the preparation of terrorist crimes; crimes against public order. It also includes the provision of hand-and-string services. In the opinion of my group, that is right. If you cooperate in any form in organising a terrorist offence, you will affect the essential interests of the Dutch State. That is a justification for my group for taking away Dutch citizenship. My group, and with my many groups, has asked for the weighting of interests and the weighting of interests. It is also a good thing that we have developed and deepened this in the first period. However, my group still has a few questions about this. I have just referred to a judgment of 27 January 2015. When I saw the penalty of 18 months, I thought that might be such a penalty that the Minister might consider as a factor in his decision not to withdraw Dutch citizenship. Is that suspicion justified? My group would like to know a little more about this, as well as about the issue of age, which Mr Schrijver has just asked. If we are talking about 15-year-olds and an irrevocable sentence of 18 months, could such a combination of factors give rise to the Minister not to withdraw the Dutch citizenship? I understand that the Minister cannot make a harsh statement about this now, but perhaps he can give a little more direction than he has done so far. That would help. All things considered, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u114	We need to get back on the side of the government. The minister seems to be able to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u115	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Court for their comments in the second term. First of all, let me thank the groups of the CDA, the PvdA, the SGP, D66, the PVV, the VVD and perhaps the OSF for supporting this bill. I think that we have taken a small but significant step together. It is important for the palette of measures we have to try and prevent terrorist crimes in the Netherlands. I say to Mrs Wezel that, after her remark to speak more slowly, I have tried very hard to do so. This is naturally difficult for me, but I hope that she will have found some difference after she has asked me to do so. I am now trying to get back into the mode in which I will speak more slowly. In the direction of Mr Rombouts, I confirm that the government attaches particular importance to prevention. I thank him for stressing the importance of prevention once again in his term. In the direction of Mr Schrijver, I note that not all eight persecuted adults are young adults. I remind you about minors in the general sense. The withdrawal of nationality is not excluded in the case of minors, even in the case of 14- or 15-year-olds. Because if a young person aged 14 or 15 is convicted by the criminal court of a terrorist offence, including in Article 134a, there is, of course, something really going on. A judge will not do that soon if there are no very concrete and serious reasons for it. In my decision on withdrawal, minority will be one of the factors that I take into account. This also applies, of course, to personal circumstances. Mrs Wezel gave the example of a person whose parents live in the Netherlands. I cannot say how, but these are circumstances which naturally take into account the balance of personal interests. I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for the compliment he has given me. I will then forget that he also noted that he considers this bill to be a rather thin extract of the original intentions. I am defending Mr Van Dijk's right to say that, of course. That is perhaps one of the reasons why we disagree with the extradition of persons to countries where the death penalty exists. I note, however, that the government does not allow itself to be taken away from its position, not even by Mr Van Dijk. Mrs Wezel has indicated two things to which I would like to respond. I would have said that it's mostly young adults. I certainly cannot confirm that in a general sense. Terrorist crimes are mainly committed by adults and it is also obvious that mainly adults will be condemned in full by the criminal court. Nor can I confirm in general terms that there would be a ggz background for all Syrians or a vast majority of them. We simply lack the image of the Syrians. Undoubtedly among those Syrians there will be persons who have a mental or mental disorder. However, this does not mean that they have already come into contact with the ggz. I note that I have not been able to convince the SP Group of this bill. I very much regret that because I have tried very hard to do so. I would like to thank Mr Engels for taking away Mrs Strik's concerns about the role of the administrative judge. I myself am a simple civilist, so I withdraw from this debate as soon as possible, but I do confirm that, in my firm conviction and that of the government, the guarantees that should be provided for the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship by means of opposition and appeal and the full judgment of the administrative judge in accordance with the rules we have in the Netherlands are fulfilled. That is ultimately a choice we made in response to the controversy in 1911. I couldn't come up with the name "That was bad of me," but it's about the controversy between my predecessor Mr. Loeff and a very renowned member of the Dutch legal family Struycken. They had a discussion about whether administrative law belongs to the judge or to the board itself. In the end, we chose not too long ago to include administrative law in the judiciary. That is what certain decisions are for. I recognize the picture that Mr Engels has outlined about the way in which sometimes there is thought about the administrative judge, the review and its scope. Those who like to read something about Loeff and Struycken I like to refer to the article in the Magazine Themis of 2014, episode 2. I also refer them to Professor Polak's reflections in the booklet on the commemoration of the coldest place on earth that was published in 2013 at Leiden University, in which I myself was involved as a publisher. He too has considered this controversy and the consequences it has had for our country. I would like to thank Mr Engels for agreeing this time too. It is slowly becoming a trend that Mr Engels agrees with this Minister. I would therefore like to question his words that this is one of the rare cases. In this case, there is n=3: the budget, an earlier bill and now this bill. I think we're on our way very nicely. Maybe I can find a bill that Mr Engels can disagree with. Then maybe we can break the line we've been using again. I note that Mr Markuszower of the PVV Group said that it would all have been a bit louder and a bit more. I take good note of that. This is in line with the ambition of this cabinet to take major steps forward in all areas, both in terms of repression and prevention. Then I'll come to Mrs. Strik. She quoted what my predecessor, Mr Hirsch Ballin, said about the legislative proposal in June 2010. But she didn't do that completely. It began with the phrase showing that there was no difference. However, the whole quote reads as follows: "Discrimination can never be seen apart from the reasons for making distinctions. Only then will it be discrimination." And now it comes: "There is a justified distinction in relation to avoiding statelessness." That is what the Minister said, and I fully agree with that. I also note that I maintain that there is no distinction between the two persons of a single or multiple nationality who are guilty of the same offence, for example Article 134a. I took care of Mrs Strik's concerns about the role of the administrative judge. I couldn't quite place what she said afterwards about whether someone is better off being in the Netherlands. She initially asked if it was better to exercise control. Then she asked whether it is not very difficult to exercise control, because then someone walks around the Netherlands freely once he is a stranger and cannot be deported. In essence, it does not matter whether someone in the Netherlands is walking around with Dutch citizenship after serving his sentence and is a danger to Dutch society or whether someone is walking around without Dutch nationality and is a danger to Dutch society. I do not see where the difference Mrs Strik points out. My starting point and that of the government is that someone who is guilty of these serious crimes is at risk of being withdrawn from the Netherlands. That's the essence of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u116	I'm gonna have to give you a quick explanation. My point is that this bill obviously wants to make the Netherlands safer, and hopefully also the world. If you take away people from the Netherlands and turn them off, they'll make things more unsafe somewhere else. This expansion is then very focused on the Dutch interest. I think that's a rather limited view of freedom. If you condemn them here, release them on parole, monitor them or impose any kind of measure, I really still think that you have more chance of them deradicalizing or coming into line, for example, than if you immediately take them away from the Netherlands and put them at the airport. That's one way. The other side is that someone becomes an unwanted stranger if it doesn't work at the airport. He then stays illegally in the Netherlands and is indestructible. Then it is more difficult to monitor how a person behaves and what development someone is going through than with a Dutchman who is registered and can show himself everywhere and will therefore be more in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u117	I'm starting to get a little despondent. Mrs Strik is actually proposing that someone in the Netherlands should operate under conditions for life, in the interests of safety. Our rule of law does not provide any basis for this. If you don't have any title to keep an eye on someone, then someone's status really doesn't matter anymore. If such a person is a danger to our society, you will have to keep an eye on him anyway. Moreover, it is common practice for serious criminals to be expelled after serving their sentence. There will then be good consultation with other countries. It is then up to those other countries to assess the risks of such a person. So it has not been said at all that this poses a threat to other countries. I do not recognize myself in the image Mrs Strik sketches on that point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u118	The Minister is now making a pure comparison with the expulsion of foreigners who have committed a criminal offence. This is about Dutch people. We move into the Netherlands and then turn them off. I think that is a difference, because that citizenship itself is also an achievement and a right that will be taken away from people. I think the difference is important. The Minister cannot compare this with the expulsion of foreigners because they committed a crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u119	There's no difference at all. Anyone who loses his Dutch identity because he is guilty of a very serious crime that harms the interests of the Dutch State will lose the Dutch citizenship. At least, he could lose that, if eventually the board judge feels the same way. Then he is a stranger and is therefore the same stranger as all other strangers. Whether it's a criminal stranger or a terrorist criminal stranger, it doesn't matter, of course. It is quite common for expulsion to take place at that time, in good consultation with other countries. If it is not possible, then we will eventually have to keep an eye on someone based on our rule of law. We'll do it as well as we can. That is also what we owe to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u120	I have one final point. The point I made is that we're talking about the treatment of Dutch people. How do you deal with Dutch people who committed a certain crime? My group is more convinced that we can make sufficient use of criminal law for this purpose and should not make a distinction between one Dutchman and another. So you don't get to ask how you deal with strangers and the answer that you treat strangers the same. No, then you're looking at how to get the Dutch back in line.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u121	I note that there is no difference of opinion between me and my predecessor on this point and that there will not be any. The purpose of this bill is to add one provision to the 2010 Law Amendment, which was also accepted unanimously by the First Chamber, where this discussion was not conducted to that extent at the time. Then I come to the questions that Mrs Duthler has asked. I'm gonna have to let her down. The information I was able to find out in the speed of events is that the judgment of 29 January 2015 was the subject of a cassation. On the basis of the same standards and values of our rule of law, to which I attach great importance, I cannot respond to that judgment, let alone to go further, because the case is under trial. In general terms, I have already said that this personal consideration can, of course, also play a role in the final measure of punishment applied by the criminal court. Moreover, in general terms, until the date of entry into force of this law, all the final convicts will not come into contact with that law. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions. I would like to thank Members for their contributions in the second term. I very much appreciate the majority of the House's support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-16-eerstekamer-9.u122	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on this at the beginning of the sitting on 1 March.
