ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone. The next item is the commemoration of Piet de Jong. He died on 27 July at the age of 101 as the oldest former government leader in the world. I would like to welcome his family and the Prime Minister. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. "I saw the ships and knew what I wanted to be." It is a quote by Piet de Jong, recorded in Trouw in 2008. By the sea no one could spoil anything, the sea is always beautiful, he thought. He spent a lot of his life there. During World War II, he was commander of the submarine O 24, first under British and later under American command, sinking as many as eight enemy ships. In 1971, in an interview in Het Parool, he said he wanted to become an admiral deep in his heart. "It took me a long time to get rid of that," he said. "Admiral is a very nice position, you know." It was different. In 1959, Piet de Jong was asked to become Secretary of State in the De Quay cabinet. Not because of his political affinity, but because of his Catholic background. In order to join this cabinet, he became a member of the KVP. In the next three Cabinets, he was Minister of Defense. From 1967 he led the first post-war cabinet to complete the journey, a coalition of KVP, ARP and CHU. It was a time of political and social unrest; of hippies, provos and crazy minas, the Virginhouse occupation, hostages and demonstrations. But Piet de Jong remained the person he was at sea: full of rest and relativism, meek but steadfast. "Don't get ahead of yourself, drive it," he said. "As long as it goes well, I have to stay in the background. If it goes wrong, someone has to be responsible. That's me." At his swearing-in in 1967, De Jong announced that he would "take care of the store." With retroactive effect, we can say that he failed himself and his cabinet. Although he was known as a conservative, he initiated fundamental changes. Under his leadership, the minimum wage and the individual rent subsidy were introduced, the electoral turnout ended and the position of homosexuals improved. De Jong also introduced the weekly press conference at the end of the ministerial council. Not only to ensure that journalists leave him alone on Friday night, but more importantly, he said that openness was part of a functioning democracy. People had a right to know what had been decided. "We're not a secret society!', he once said at the Haagsche Courant. For Piet de Jong his faith was his main motivation, the basis of his actions. "And the essence of that foundation," he said, "is the commandment that you must love your neighbor, that you must seek to help your equal." As Prime Minister, he has been able to do that like no other. He led the Netherlands through a turbulent time, lavering between leaving space and intervening. He kept course and ensured stability, and that made him popular and popular with a wide audience. After the elections in 1971, he was sidelined. That hit him. Gradually he distanced himself from the everyday Hague, but he remained critical and involved. His last public performance, at the CDA Congress in 2010, is the best illustration of this. Piet de Jong never became admiral. And that is a good thing, I say on behalf of Dutch society. His transition, from sea to shore, has brought the Netherlands much. During King Willem-Alexander's inauguration, I sat next to him on the bus. I remember how beautiful he looked that day. It's been an exciting day for me. "What a special day," I said to him. He looked at me, and he proudly replied, "This is my third inauguration." This illustrated how long and how intensive Piet de Jong has been part of our political landscape. As a substantively motivated ruler and a worthy prime minister, warm and humorous. In parliamentary debates he often managed to parry opposition attacks with a joke, but in everything he sounded due to how much he respected the parliament, how much he was involved. He enjoyed that not a day was the same, that there were always wrinkles that had to be smoothed out. It was not in his nature to speak about it widely. He was too sober, too modest for that. But the fact is that Piet de Jong, almost unnoticed, has left a strong mark on Dutch politics. We are very, very grateful to him for that. On behalf of the House of Representatives I wish his daughter, sons, grandchildren and other family, and of course the CDA, much strength. We won't forget him. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Piet de Jong once said: "There are two kinds of people: those who think that the world stops at the beach and those who realize that the world begins at the beach." Today we commemorate him. Piet de Jong was Prime Minister. He was Minister and Secretary of State for Marine and Defense, but he was mostly submarine captain. He always did. Every day he was aware of the greatness of the world around us, which begins where the coast passes into the sea. That consciousness and that experience marked him as a politician and a director. It made him able to relate strongly, that he never let himself be carried away by vanity or the delusion of the day and that he, regardless of the situation, was steadfast and firm. His Catholic faith was at the root of that. Without faith, it was, in his own words, "as if you were on a mad compass." Already at the age of 19, Petrus Jozef Sietse de Jong traded the wall for the spacious soup. He spent the war years on submarine O24. At the beginning of the Second World War, he managed to sail from the Waalhaven in Rotterdam to the other side of the canal. He sailed the world seas, fought with the Allies and would not set foot again until 1946. Piet de Jong literally made a flying entry into politics in 1959. A helicopter hoisted him to a cable on board. Ashore he was asked to become Secretary of Defense for the Navy on behalf of the KVP in the De Quay cabinet. His career as a naval officer ended, but his heart remained by the sea. He said: "If you cut me, you will first find the sea and then politics. I'm not really a politician." For a man who was not of politics, Piet de Jong has been of great importance to the administration of our country. As Prime Minister, he was a beacon of stability in a turbulent period. In the late 1960s it fermented and bubbled in society. Gnomes, mad minas and squatters were on the barricades, the Virgin House was occupied and the Vietnam protest reached a peak. Much of his courage, decision-making and calmness were reflected in his approach to the Molucca hostage situation in the Indonesian residence in Wassenaar. According to his biographer, he performed on top of his potential at that time. At that time and at many other times he kept the peace. Piet de Jong had the ability to laver between tradition and innovation. He attached the achievements of the Dutch rule of law, but he also had a keen eye for the changing world in the 1960s. His fellow ministers praised him as a man of good relations. In his cabinet he created a pleasant atmosphere. He gave confidence and forced respect with his intelligence, his frankness and his steadfastness. "His humor drops down on you like a golden rain," a newspaper once wrote. A good example of this is his own definition of the concept. He called humor "a touch of perfume in the sprouts smell of everyday life." Now that I see the microphone here, you know the anecdote, I must remember that when he first stood in the Old Hall, he said: "President, can you lower the periscope?" I myself remember with warm feelings the conversations and encounters I had with him. Even at a very old age Piet de Jong had lost nothing of his perceptiveness, his combatibility and his touch of irony. Piet de Jong died at the age of 101 after a rich and meaningful life. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish his children, relatives and friends the strength to bear this loss. Hopefully they feel comforted by the realization that a lot of people remember him with affection, with appreciation and respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-09-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that you can pay your condolences to Mr Piet de Jong's family at the Members' Restaurant.
