ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u1	You have all signed up for almost one and a half hours of speaking time in the first term. That means it's gonna be pretty late. I would therefore ask you to take this into account in your enthusiasm for interrupting each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u2	For the whole treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u3	For the first term of office, I say to clarify for the Secretary of State. I welcome him, of course, just like the last two people in the public gallery. But perhaps a lot of people at home are still following this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. As a result of the decline in the number of pupils and the increased complexity of maintaining a small school financially sound independent, more and more cooperation schools have emerged in recent years. Even more often informal cooperation schools have been created. The CDA understands the desire of school authorities to broaden the conditions under which cooperation can be achieved if the continuity of public or special education in a region is compromised by the decline in the number of pupils. Furthermore, we believe that school boards in primary and secondary education are just as likely to encounter the unnecessarily severely tightened conditions in the case of regular mergers by the merger test. Despite our appreciation for the search for opportunities for cooperation for schools threatened with abolition, we cannot avoid the well-founded criticism of the Dutch Association for Education Law and the Education Council as well as the extremely negative opinion of the Council of State. The council even advised not to send this law to the Chamber. The cooperation school should remain a constitutional exception. That's also recognised by the Cabinet. It is clear, among other things, from the fact that this administrative form cannot be established, but can only be established after at least six years of funding for the individual boards wishing to form a school of cooperation. If there are enough pupils to ensure the continuity of public and special schools, there can therefore be no cooperation school. However, we believe that the administrative form of cooperation school with this legislative proposal is at the same time in a privileged position when it comes to decommissioning the merger test. Why, so I ask the Secretary of State, does the Cabinet not choose to treat boards that wish to proceed to a regular merger in the same way as regards broadening possibilities, such as the continuity criterion? Does the Secretary of State recognise that it will be significantly easier to reach a cooperation school than to arrive at an administrative merger? Is the cabinet prepared to create a level playing field in terms of the conditions under which schools can engage in regular mergers or form a school of cooperation? In order to maintain our dual system of public and special education, the CDA believes that there remains a clear administrative distinction between public and special education. We reject a cooperation school under public education. We do not see how the government can become responsible for education based on religious or philosophical principles, while at the same time ensuring neutrality requirements. However, we see a responsibility for the municipal authorities with regard to the supervision of the public part of the cooperation school, as well as laying down in the school guide the guarantees of both the special identity and the public character. We have tabled an amendment to ensure that a school of cooperation cannot be formed under public administration. We do not see anything in imposing on the authorities the way in which the identity of special education within the cooperation school should take shape in an identity committee. This leads to additional administrative burdens and can be seen as yet another obligation from The Hague to create a prescribed place to deal with your identity. In the opinion of the CDA, the identity of a school takes shape in the work of and the cooperation between management, parents and the college of teachers. After all, they are the identity carriers par excellence of the school. We have also tabled an amendment to remove the Committee on Identity from the legislative proposal. The CDA has another question about the State Secretary's assumption that this law removes barriers to cooperation between schools. Is it not true that schools which are organized in perhaps the most clean form of organisation we know, namely that of an association, cannot form a school of cooperation? Is the cabinet prepared to find a solution to this? The CDA wishes to join the cabinet in seeking a good and responsible opportunity to enable cooperation schools in sparsely populated areas, where there is a decline in the number of pupils. The adoption of the amendments we have tabled is crucial for us to support this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u5	I am always surprised at what the CDA believes is freedom of education. Apparently, freedom of education is what the CDA likes. Anything that's in there, it's okay. As soon as it gets out, for example, if a public and special school together chooses to continue under a public administration, it should not be allowed by the CDA. How does that relate to the freedom of education? Who's it with, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u6	Mr Van Meenen has taken the lead in the attack on the issue of freedom of education. I think I am a defender of that freedom of education. I'd like to maintain that freedom on good grounds. The government has a responsibility for adequate public education. I'm very attached to that. That is what we discussed in the legislative proposal before us. This is an independent responsibility of the government: sufficient public education where parents united in governing do not manage to set up education in another place. Now we have a rich pluralism in this country and I cherish it. At the same time, however, our dual system is shrinking. Whether public or special education is likely to have to stop because of a drop in the number of pupils. That's when it also says to the CDA with many other parties that you have to offer the opportunity to work together. Mr Van Meenen's question is under what form of government that can be done. The government cannot be responsible for setting up a philosophy of life or a religion. That is why we say that it is fine to have this cooperation, but within our dual system it is under the banner of special education. In addition, I give all the space to organise this cooperation school with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u7	The point is that Mr Rog believes that this cannot be done under public flag. Collaborative schools may consider that this can be done. It is a question of where that choice ultimately lies. Mr Rog says that it does not belong to the government. The CDA just knows better. In Mr Rog's view, it cannot be that the government, the municipal government, is responsible for maintaining special education. According to Mr Rog, that is simply not possible. If, according to the schools concerned, it is possible, I think it should prevail. That's freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u8	Mr Van Meenen is turning it into a kind of referendum. If a majority chooses to do it under public flag, then it should be possible. This is not how our system is organized. We deal with a precarious law. It is a law which the Council of State says should never have gone to the Chamber and on which there is a great deal of criticism. In my view, Mr Van Meenen has come to a huge end when I say that my group is at the heart of the idea that, in the chosen way, a school of cooperation can indeed be created from public and special education. We are only saying that all educational lawyers say that this figure within our dual system leaves no room to place it under public administration, precisely because the government has a different task. This should ensure public education in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u9	I hear Mr Rog explaining his amendment. I wonder what he'll want. I am referring to the second amendment: not an identity committee. That is not the case now. The administrations of public education and special education must now create a third legal entity to maintain the school of cooperation. That's a lot of red tape. That is why it is proposed to set up such an identity committee. Does Mr Rog want to keep that bureaucratic burden with the third legal entity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u10	For the sake of clarity, this is the amendment on item No. 9 on the deletion of the identity committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u11	Mrs Ypma rightly points out that there is bureaucracy for cooperation schools even now. I'm open to any suggestion of reducing it. In this legal process and in the amendments proposed by the government, I have weighed those elements well. I believe that an identity committee is a mould in the structure that is not specific to how identity is experienced and furnished. It's not the school's own thing. That is why I have tabled this amendment. When Mrs Ypma comes up with a proposal to reduce the administrative burden or simplify the structure while we can carefully establish a cooperation school, I am her husband in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u12	I think that Mr Rog can then go along with the proposal and the Committee on Identity. In practice, informal cooperation schools have an identity committee in which parents and teachers discuss and agree on both vision and daily practice. Does Mr Rog agree with me that this is less bureaucratic than the current practice of creating a third legal entity?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u13	Now we come to an interesting point, because Mrs Ypma brings up something that is also often there from the schools themselves. For the record, I certainly do not want to turn against identity committees when the school of cooperation needs them. I merely advocate that we do not again impose a legal mould on education: in this form, identity must be safeguarded. I think that's about the school. This is without prejudice to the fact that, apart from the Committee on Identity, I am absolutely in favour of new proposals to reduce the administrative burden associated with this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u14	Does Mr Rog want to maintain the possibility of setting up a third-party legal entity or an identity committee or of taking care of it in a third way?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u15	I want to think about any simplification of the structure and I do not want a mandatory identity committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u16	Mr. Chairman. The number of pupils in the Netherlands is falling and this is particularly noticeable for primary schools in sparsely populated shrinking regions. There are major challenges ahead in these schools. That is why it is important, for example, that the small school allowance was maintained in 2014, thanks to a motion by the Christian Union. That is why the Christian Union is also making extra money in the election programme to maintain education in shrinking regions. However, there is more to it. Can parents choose the school anywhere in the Netherlands that fits their beliefs or their educational vision? Can they still choose in villages in Groningen, Limburg, Zeeland, the Green Heart or the Alblasserwaard for a school with a strong identity, for example a Christian school or a free school? For the Christian Union, it is a fundamental right of parents that there is an opportunity to choose. That is why I think it is so important that the last school of direction should be allowed to continue. Whether they are reformed, Jewish, evangelical, monessori or free schools: schools with a strong identity are quality schools, as recent research has shown. With that look, I'm looking at this bill on cooperation schools. Is there anything left to choose for parents? How do we guarantee that every parent in the Netherlands can choose the school that fits their own belief and vision? How do we enable school boards to maintain quality at their school, including in shrinking areas? The Christian Union is open to talking about change if it allows us to preserve quality and diversity in education. In this respect, according to the Christian Union, we need to look in particular at funding, foundation standards and lifting standards. Concretely, if we lower foundation standards and lifting standards, we will give more room for new schools and keep schools with a strong identity open. Unfortunately, I have not yet seen such a proposal from the cabinet. I do see two legislative proposals in the Chamber that affect the identity of schools, including a bill to remove the direction in education. Schools in sparsely populated regions are laughing at it, because they are already happy when they can keep their one village school in the air, and in densely populated regions there is already a lot of choice. Parents are for the most part satisfied to be very satisfied with the choice they have. I still find it difficult not to see the solutions the Secretary of State is seeking for shrinking regions as an attempt to restrict the scope of special education. The Secretary of State is beginning to draw on the wrong side of the rope, as we think the Christian Union is doing, by working in directions without looking at funding and standards at the same time. The legal status of the cooperation school has a special history. In 2006, Article 23 of the Constitution was amended, a unique event, with the agreement of the Christian Union. There was an exception for cooperation schools to the dual system, but explicitly as an exception in our education system of public and special education. The bill we are discussing today gives more room to form cooperation schools. That is a good thing in itself. However, the big question is whether the school of cooperation in this legislative proposal is still an exception within the framework of the Constitution. According to the Council of State, no. It considers that the school of cooperation is becoming too much of a regular third form of education and that it requires amendment of the Constitution. The law is being stretched so far that even the threat of school closure will no longer be the decisive criterion for setting up a school of cooperation. A third of the primary schools will soon be merged into a cooperation school by the Secretary of State. This means that the school of cooperation is no longer the exception provided for in the Constitution. The Christian Union understands the Secretary of State's concern about small schools in sparsely populated shrinking areas. We also share this concern, but in areas with high standards of elimination, where the size of schools around the lifting standard is not a threat to the quality of education, there is no reason to allow for faster cooperation schools. Rather, in densely populated areas, you would want to lower that lifting standard, which also changes the moment when a cooperation school would be created. If a school of 180 students in Friesland can survive well, a school of this size can survive in Amsterdam as well. I have therefore tabled an amendment to the effect that cooperation schools in sparsely populated areas can be created more quickly and earlier, so I hope to think with the Secretary of State, but not in densely populated areas, because there is no need. In this way, the school of cooperation remains an exception, it remains within the Constitution and the possibilities are extended where they might be needed. The Secretary of State appears to want to promote the cooperation school as a third variant in the education system. For example, I read in the written round: "The government does not want to deny schools in large cities by definition the possibility of merging into a cooperative school." This contradicts the claim that it should only be an exception in the event of shrinkage. Another remark is: 'The government also considers that it does not matter to the extent that there is a drop in pupils in the training of cooperation schools.' I note that the Secretary of State goes much further than the Constitution allows. The Council of State is literally saying that the bill is contrary to Article 23 of the Constitution. The opinion also states that the addition of special education under a public foundation is "not compatible with the Constitution." And yet the Secretary of State continues the bill. You cannot just leave the Constitution aside, I ask the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has said on several occasions that he leaves Article 23 untouched, but this bill is contrary to this constitutional article. Does the Secretary of State suddenly want to change Article 23? Or does he want to amend a law in violation of the Constitution? I can't possibly agree with both scenarios. Can the Secretary of State explain why this bill creates fewer obstacles to the merger into a cooperation school than a regular merger between, for example, special school boards? That's weird, isn't it? Mr Rog pointed out this as well. In setting up a cooperation school, public and special education will be governed by a single board. This could be the public school board. This raises many questions for the Christian Union, because as it is now being designed, a school of cooperation is more public than special. Informally, we have seen that, in particular, foundations acting from the point of view of special education, show that it can be done. I would like to mention the fine example of the merger of public primary school De Achthoud and the Christian Ichthus School in Wolphaartsdijk. Here, Christian education shows that it also realizes that public education is a valuable "direction" that should remain available to parents. On the other hand, like Mr Rog, I am not convinced that a government foundation can be given the task of managing and maintaining one preferred nomination. That would affect the neutrality of the government. This law creates the possibility for a public foundation to become the competent authority. This creates the crooked situation that special education is to be covered by the government, the public authority. It seems to me constitutionally very dubious that the philosophical education is given under the authority of the "neutral" government, including administrative appointments and supervision by the city council. The Secretary of State does not share this view in the written round. Isn't that what he's doing to get the government to interfere with education in particular? The law also requires that the school is generally accessible. This may be in line with the nature of public education, but is contrary to the law of special education. Doesn't the Constitution conflict with this bill here, too? I am not yet clear what the position of the staff is. Can staff still be appointed on the basis of the special part of the school? The answer appears to be based mainly on public law. For example, it says that only on the basis of a "functional competence" staff can be appointed on the basis of the belief of life. Is that just the religious teacher? Or does the Secretary of State have a broader view of that? One of the essential features of special education is that the basis of the school is shared by staff, identity carriers. Mr. Rog said so. I have just concluded that the freedom to appoint staff on the basis of the basis seems to suggest little more with this law. In fact, that leaves only the publicly required identity committee. This is an advisory committee which monitors the public character and the special part of the identity of the school of cooperation. Isn't that almost a lack of recognition of the value of special education? Especially in special schools, philosophy of life or the educational vision is reflected in all aspects of the school: in personnel policy, in teaching, in the atmosphere and in the way in which they interact. Is an identity committee, an advisory committee really going to preserve the special nature of that particular part of the cooperation school? No, because the committee must monitor both the public character of the school and the preservation of its special character. She does so by making up half of "public" people and half of "special" people. With an identity committee that monitors the public character of the school, the Secretary of State actually acknowledges that public education is also a non-neutral direction in education. Look, and we in the Christian Union can come up with that very well: all areas of education, including the public, are equally sweet and equally special to the Christian Union. The Christian Union cannot accept this bill in its present form, which extends the legal exception for cooperation schools so far that there is in fact no longer an exception. Moreover, undesirable interference by the government is taking place in particular education. More importantly, the bill does not contribute to a future-oriented solution, whereby parents have something to choose in their village, city or region. The Secretary of State is beginning, as I said, to pull the wrong side of the rope, inter alia, by effectively abolishing the directions and turning the cooperation schools into a general form. It would be better to change lifting standards, foundation standards and funding models, to lower standards and to enable schools financially to make future-oriented choices, whether while maintaining independence or through cooperation with other school boards. In the long term, we should make all education special. Public schools also deserve to be a good direction, because education is never neutral. And education certainly isn't government. Education belongs to both parents and teachers, as identity carriers at school. That would really be a future-proof solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u17	I have a bit of the same question as I asked Mr Rog. This identity committee is now in practice a good solution in which parents and teachers together make decisions about the identity of the school and daily practice. So what is the alternative that my colleague Bruins has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u18	I don't have an amendment to amend that part of the bill. I don't really see a better alternative as soon as possible, except that you would say: you have an identity committee for the public part and you have an identity committee for the special part, and that those two do "something." I'm glad it works well in several places. If a school of cooperation is created on a voluntary basis, there is, of course, a lot of good will from directors, teachers and parents. And where it goes voluntarily and in good will and is an exception to the law, and it is an opportunity to maintain schools in small cores where there is shrinkage, this might be the next best option.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u19	So, if I understand correctly, does Mr Bruins think that is better than that third legal entity, which you then have to create and which produces a lot of bureaucracy? At least that's how it's experienced now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u20	I always have difficulty with something that results in bureaucracy, but I will study Mr Rog's amendments carefully to see what we prefer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u21	Mr. Chairman. Miss Janneke can tell passionately about the school where she works in a village with 500 inhabitants. It's pretty hard work at such a small village school, she says, but you get a lot in return. The 42 children at her school are very tolerant, also to the care pupils in the classroom, and they assume differences in the classroom. She's trying to get the best out of every kid. The school gets a fine assessment from the inspection and Miss Janneke shines when she talks about her school. The only thing she regrets is that half of the village goes to a Christian school 2 kilometers away. The teacher's dream is that those two schools are gonna work together. It is perfectly possible to start daily with a joint opening that does justice to the different backgrounds. Maintaining identity under one roof; that would be so beautiful. The children can only not learn to calculate Christianly, but is that so bad now? In a municipality down the road, a lot of work is being done to maintain two village schools. The public and Christian schools are talking to each other to have their schools working together in the two villages as a cooperation school, in both situations with agreements on dealing with identity, staffing, dealing with participation, with a return scheme of the staff. But the deal isn't over yet. There are all kinds of regulatory barriers. We can do something about that from The Hague. That is why in March 2014 I submitted the Co-operation for Education initiative paper on removing legal barriers to the start and maintenance of cooperation schools. The aim of this initiative paper was to make Miss Janneke's dream possible, as well as many schools and municipalities, by lowering the legal thresholds for starting a cooperation school. Because of these thresholds, schools refrain from starting a school of cooperation and then start an informal school of cooperation. Because of the decline in population and the consequences, it is important that schools work together on denominational boundaries. The practice actually creates obstacles to the law. We're behind here in The Hague. We must do something about that. My goal is to ensure that schools do not disappear at random, but that a school of cooperation that fits in with multiple beliefs and visions of life can continue to exist, for example a village school, which provides a formal guarantee in the longer term that both the public character and the special identity will continue to exist while at the same time respecting the diversity in the Netherlands and ensuring accessible schools. The bill is in line with this initiative paper. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that. Before the elections, it is important to regulate legally what we wanted to achieve on this point. Adjustments should have been made years ago. We're a little late. I myself wrote an initiative paper in 2014 to encourage the cabinet. Many schools are now closed or merged into informal cooperation schools, but once this law has been introduced, there are opportunities for the future. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that. The reason why cooperation schools are now difficult to establish lies in the complexity of the legislation. We're the only ones who can fix that. At present, the establishment of a cooperation school is only possible if the number of pupils in one of the schools concerned falls below the lifting standard within six years. School boards in areas with a drop in apprenticeships now often decide to close schools before this lifting standard comes into view, for example because the existence of a significant number of small schools could threaten the financial health of a school administration. For example, there is a risk of continuity before the lifting standard is reached. Schools that want to move forward together because of shrinkage will no longer have to wait for this bill to be lifted. The legislative proposal rehabilitates the continuity criterion, which means that either of the schools to be merged will be threatened with liquidation. It provides guarantees of equivalence between public and special education. The special identity and public character of the school are also guaranteed by an identity committee at school level. Finally, the bill provides for a school of cooperation to be maintained by a public education foundation. Apprenticeship decline is a major problem in several areas of the Netherlands. Especially in villages where there are now several primary schools of different denominations, waiting for just one to fall over. Parents and school boards indicate that they see cooperation schools as a solution to the problem. I would therefore like that to be accepted. A school of cooperation was created as an exception to preserve duality, to prevent competition and to counter the distortion of supply. The demands to establish a cooperation school are extremely strict. It's not a viable map. It only happens in very exceptional cases. Let's face it, it's about parents' wishes. For that reason, our dual order was once built. It is precisely with this that we can argue cooperation schools informally and formally. The NCOR has also shown that, if you can demonstrate it objectively by means of apprenticeship projections and a period of time, constitutional requirements are met, while at the same time space is given to the field. That's the space we like to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u22	Mr. Chairman. With this law there will be an extension of the possibilities of setting up a school of cooperation. A public education foundation can also maintain a cooperation school. That is a step forward. But why so careful? Why does our Liberal Secretary of State insist on the dual system by still imposing many complex conditions on the establishment of a school of cooperation, including in this law? This is only possible in the shrinking areas. Is it not time to modernise that article almost 100 years after the birth of Article 23? So we step away from "we've agreed to that before" or "that's the way it is." Already in the debate on Mrs Ypma's own-initiative paper in 2014, I asked: if those concerned want to move towards a single administration, would it not be appropriate not to stand in the way of them? I'm gonna ask you again. If demand is low, can we also welcome it outside the shrinking regions? I have tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u23	My group will wholeheartedly support that amendment. I'm gonna say that again. But if the SP wants to live up to these words, I wonder why it still attaches itself to the merger test, because that is exactly the same. This is also a wish of the bottom, namely of schools that want to go together, whether administratively or not. Then the SP says: ho, wait a minute, first a fusion test; first let's check if it's all right. Why? Why do we not also say goodbye to the merger test in primary education, as I ask Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u24	This is conveniently thought out by Mr Van Meenen. If we abolish this, why not abolish it? Because it's two different things, Mr Van Meenen. We all have rules on education; just ask the Secretary of State, because he can explain very well what he expects from schools. The fusion test is part of that. Mr Van Meenen says it all: if schools meet the conditions, they can go together. I believe that we should pay particular attention here to the possibilities of starting a school of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u25	I quote Mr Van Dijk myself. He says: if the desire to start a cooperation school comes from below, who are we to get in the way? We must allow that wish from below. That exact reasoning also applies to merger, doesn't it? Why not there, I ask Mr Van Dijk. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u26	Because a merger is different from a college of collaboration. I am concerned here with modernising a dated order. I think I can get D66 on that. But scaling up is a completely different subject. In that we must be cautious. So having a merger test doesn't mean there's a merger ban. Let us look at how we can make these requirements as flexible as possible, but I think that abolishing them is too rigorous.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u27	I am doing my utmost to understand Mr Van Dijk. I think he is now advocating that, if a public and a special school so wishes, whatever the size of the threshold should be wiped out completely! In the case of a cooperative school, cooperation shall be permitted. However, if two special schools wanted to do so, that would not be possible. Have I understood Mr Van Dijk so well? Or does he think that these schools should have the same free fusion space as he advocates in the merger of public and special education?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u28	No, Mr. Rog didn't quite get it. The SP is in favour of the fusion test, which has been set up to maintain the human dimension of education, in particular in order to counter the administrative scale increase. Every time two schools want to go together, regardless of their denomination, we have to carefully check whether those schools are public, special or both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u29	I still do not understand Mr Van Dijk. So now he's actually arguing that this law shouldn't go through like this. So we can expect an amendment from the SP, which states that the merger test will be retained, even if a school has 83 or fewer pupils. That's what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u30	I would like to thank Mr Rog very much for keeping me alert. I will go into good consultation with the Legislative Office again. Mr Rog may be able to look forward to a new amendment. Of course, the SP is in favour of an acceptance obligation for cooperation schools. We are in favour of the acceptance of all schools, including cooperation schools. I can tell the chairman that there's a bill somewhere in this building on a shelf. I think Mrs Ypma can tell us exactly where that is. It's been there for ten years. It's a gran-di-oo bill. So not only support my amendment to regulate an acceptance obligation for cooperation schools, but support the legislative proposal as a whole. Of course, I am calling on Mrs Ypma again, and I hope for the last time, to get on with it now. Christmas is approaching. Wouldn't it be a nice idea to present it to the Chamber at this time of year?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u31	Mrs Ypma will explain whether a present is coming for Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u32	Does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that we should certainly table that bill if we reach a majority and therefore cross the line of the VVD, but that we should not table it if it does not reach a majority? Then the future will only get further away, because then the acceptance obligation will be voted off here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u33	No, I disagree. We have the GVO/HVO bill. Excuse the abbreviation; that means: religious and humanistic education. Mrs Ypma did not know whether it would get a majority. She still doesn't know that, if I'm right. The same applies to the obligation of acceptance. Mrs. Ypma, you need to look at the contents. The bill for that acceptance obligation is great. Put it in front and the VVD can't get around it. I promise to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u34	I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk that in both cases these are brilliant legislative proposals. But we also have to make sure they get a majority. The difference is that I am confident that the SP is going to approve the hvo/gvo bill, but that the VVD has clearly indicated that it will reject the acceptance obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u35	Well, well, well. So now Mrs. Ypma says she trusts me more than the VVD. We'll remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u36	Let's leave the interpretation in the middle. You may continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u37	Wait a minute. The VVD is very much about the acceptance obligation. I can show you a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u38	This is not the treatment of the bill for an acceptance obligation. We're not gonna cause entrapment, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u39	One sentence, Mr. Chairman. Because we have to quote the VVD correctly. I have a motion in which the VVD simply supports the acceptance obligation. Mrs Strauss also said in front of a Tim Hofman's camera: yes, yes, under conditions we can agree to that. In short, there are opportunities. Now to Mr Bishop. With him, I'm not so sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u40	I do not think Mr Van Dijk is giving me the floor, but the President. Mr President, thank you very much for your permission. Sometimes Mr Van Dijk talks about the concept of freedom of education. Every time I hear him again, I think: what kind of freedom is that? Is that the freedom that should lead exclusively to non-religious education? Let me look at the amendments tabled by Mr Van Dijk. If there is tension in a school of cooperation between public identity on the one hand and special identity on the other, what does Mr Van Dijk say in the amendment to item No. 12? "In resolving disputes referred to in the previous sentence, the public character of the school of cooperation shall prevail."
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u41	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u42	Is that freedom of education as proposed by Mr Van Dijk? I would like to mention another amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u43	We're just gonna correct something for a second. The amendment in part No. 12 has now been replaced by the amendment to item No. 15, but that may not be relevant to this point of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u44	In substance, I do not think that makes much difference. In the amendment to item No. 13 states: "Cooperation schools are open to all children without distinction from religion or belief." That's what this bill already deals with in a certain way. Excuse me, Mr President, but perhaps Mr Van Dijk will be able to reconsider the concept of freedom of education, which has grown in Dutch tradition and is enshrined in society. Maybe he can take his one-sided "public education" glasses off and respect that parents can make other choices and then leave room for them in government policy instead of carrying out the compulsion, pressure and pressure of "it must be public." I would like to consider that to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u45	The question was shorter than the introduction, but we are now going to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u46	That's what I do with love. You have two kinds of freedom in this discussion. There is the freedom of Mr Bishop. That is the freedom to establish schools and to conduct their own admission policies. Unfortunately, that can lead to such a school being able to say to a student who doesn't exactly fit in with the identity of that school: you can't get in. That's freedom for those parents and that kid, because that kid isn't getting in. It's a limited choice of school. That is Mr Bishop's freedom. My freedom is the freedom of choice of school, true freedom of choice of school: we make all schools accessible and no child, no parent will be refused at the door of any school, starting with cooperation schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u47	Of course, I know this story from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u48	Because it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u49	This is an extremely narrowed concept of "freedom of education." Freedom of education is freedom of direction, establishment and establishment, with indeed also an element of freedom of choice for parents towards schools that have profiled themselves in a certain way. Isn't the freedom of education much more than the obligation of acceptance? Mr Van Dijk cannot believe that this is the absolute minimum of freedom of education. I'm just willing to explain in a good conversation the classic Dutch approach to socially embedded education based on freedom of education, to have a good talk about it under a good lunch or something similar. I'm offering my help.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u50	I'm sure you can't resist this warm offer. And then Mr Van Dijk is going to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u51	Does that include a glass of wine? Then there's talk to me about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u52	Certainly, but at the end of this day's work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u53	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u54	The evening is not over yet, so now Mr Van Dijk is going to answer the question. Then we shall resume the debate. I understand that your colleagues have already joined your conversation, so that's gonna be fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u55	Yeah, I do now. Mr Bishop describes it correctly. He clings to the classical interpretation of the freedom of education: the freedom to establish a school and to pursue a door policy. I'd like to modernise it. The SP is a progressive, modern party. I would like to go to the 21st century and open the schools to all children. And further, we keep maximum freedom within those schools to shape the education. Only, Mr Bishop, is that with many more children, many different children rather than one type of pupil.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u56	Mr Bishop, we are not going to have a whole debate here on the freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u57	No, I have a very brief comment. Mr Van Dijk states that he is of a progressive, modern party, but that is actually funny, and I also like to share that with you. He does not realize that his plea is not 100 years old, such as Article 23 of the Constitution, but 200 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u58	Mr Van Dijk is going to think about that, I see. He's continuing his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u59	Yes. I'd say open your doors to everyone. I will continue to do so, because this law needs to be implemented carefully. The characteristics of public education "general accessibility' and "pluriformity' shall be preserved. You invest a lot of influence in the municipal councils and the identity committees. In order to have the consequences in practice, I would like to present a few cases. Yes, I always doubt: is it plural "casi" or "casuses"? But we'll find out. Case one. Suppose, I ask the Secretary of State, that an openly gay teacher apply to a cooperation school. The Christian minority does not want to accept him on this basis or wants to change the basic principles of human resources policy to that effect. The Committee on Identity does not come to a common position. So what do we do? Can we guarantee that in that case the principle of non-discrimination is maintained or not? Case two. Christmas celebration leads to discussion between believers and publics. The identity committee wants to make it a peace party and give the religious aspect a smaller role, so that everyone's party becomes. The government wants to emphasise the Christian component. What are we doing in such a dispute? Is a compromise possible? And is, in the same case, a teacher who comes from public education obliged to pay more attention to religion in these cases if the government so wishes? I think it would be good if, in these cases, the essential characteristics of public education were to prevail, as Mr Bishop has just said, my amendment to section No. 15 already correctly explained. Finally. This legislative proposal may lead to problems in the recruitment of staff. Teachers from public education, for example, are subject to civil law when they come under special administration. This leads to changes in storage, transition fees and super-statutory arrangements. Can this lead to a less good employment status for a public education teacher who is going to work under a special school board, and vice versa? Teachers from public education may lose their appointment, similar to that of an official. Is that likely to cause any problems? Has this also been discussed with interested parties such as the trade unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u60	Can Mr Van Dijk explain to me how I can reconcile his statement that, in the event of disputes, conflicts or dilemmas, publicity must prevail with his call for this law to be non-discriminatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u61	Yes. I just presented the case. Let's say a gay teacher is applying to a collaboration school, and one comes to the conclusion that he doesn't fit in with that school. Then my party says: I find that inappropriate, because I don't want to look at someone's sexual preference but at someone's quality. It must be a good teacher; the other thing I don't think is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u62	It is already very regrettable that Mr Van Dijk here suggests that believers are against gays and non-believers for gays, but I'm gonna leave them alone for a while. It's too late for that at night. But again, how can Mr Van Dijk claim that something is non-discriminatory if he lets the public character prevail over a special character? So you're deliberately discriminated against. And then you say, "Something that's areligial goes for something that's religious." That's just discrimination. That's not non-discriminatory. Then Mr Van Dijk may sound very uplifting and modern, but that is just discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u63	I'm not saying Christian parties are against gays, not at all. I note, however, that there are rules that allow special schools to express preferences for staff. Fortunately, the Chamber has adopted the single-fact bill, which reduces these possibilities. I do not want such matters to play a role in such disputes. That's difficult for Mr Bruins, but you have to make a choice. What form of discrimination prevails? Do you give the school the right to choose its staff or do you say "we don't"?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u64	I do not feel that this is a lack of clarity, but rather a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u65	I would like to move away from this particular example, because that puts two types of discrimination against Mr Van Dijk. I'm talking very simply about whether Christmas is going to be a Christmas party or a light party. Then why does the public character prevail over the religious character? On what does Mr Van Dijk base that? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u66	Last attempt, Mr Van Dijk. Then you add it to the good conversation, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u67	Because education is a public matter that we all pay for. When you have a cooperation school, you add two schools together and two types of students: public and special, just to put it bluntly. At that time, I believe that the public character of the school should prevail, for example so that all pupils are admitted. It would be strange if a student could still be refused at a cooperation school involving a public school. We shouldn't have that anymore in this time of year, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u68	No, Mr. Bruins. Now we're really going to Mrs. Ypma. I believe that one of your colleagues would like to continue on this point. Otherwise, things are gonna get out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u69	I will do the same at this point, but with a slightly different approach. I understand what Mr Van Dijk wants to do with his amendment on admission. But this point is about a conflict in which the public character prevails and the special character is therefore made subordinate. Is Mr Van Dijk not afraid that schools will think strategically and that this can turn out very wrong, namely that they are not starting a school of cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u70	I find that very speculative. I think we should not be shy about that. It is clear that the SP would like to have a discussion on Article 23. We do not need to abolish that article today, but we would like to modernise it. The cooperation school is, of course, a wonderful phenomenon to engage in that discussion. The special schools remain. The public schools remain. And the Secretary of State proposes to set up cooperation schools in between them. The question is which denomination, which vision of education, then prevails.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u71	I am as strong a supporter of the cooperation schools as Mr Van Dijk. It is precisely for this reason that I do not want this to be anticipated, that there is strategic thinking and that this amendment makes schools less likely to set up a school of cooperation. They may as well think that they can become a public school, because that character prevails over the special character.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u72	I think that's an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u73	Mr Van Dijk claims to be a strong supporter of this legislative amendment, but his speech will not lead to more support for it. The schools that are currently working informally or formally together are even schools whose representatives are still sitting in the public gallery at this time, out of conviction to seek each other out. What Mr Van Dijk is doing in front of it is a very controversial sketch. In addition, he immediately says that he is the referee who says that the public are always right. Then he comes up with some kind of reasoning, namely that that tax pays. We all do that with each other and so they are by definition right. Can Mr Van Dijk explain that again? Do the parents whose children used to have special education pay no taxes? What is the relationship with the moral right that Mr Van Dijk wants to leave with the public part of the cooperation school? Can he explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u74	I see Mr Bruin nodding so violently that I almost think the question comes from him. However, that is unthinkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u75	It could be an extension of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u76	Yeah, that's right. The point is that the special schools have privileges that public schools do not have. For example, they can apply an admission policy. I find it strange that if we finance a special school, then it has the right to say: that student can go in, but that student cannot go in. Then I'm thinking, huh? It is generally funded and then it must also be generally accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u77	My question was not about that at all. My question was about the fact that Mr Van Dijk is actually in the forefront of that good marriage of the cooperation school. He notes at the front that, when it comes to choices, the public school is by definition right. He'll say something about taxes I can't follow. He can explain that. Mr Van Dijk is talking all the time about Article 23 and abolishing special education, but we are not talking about that at all. I would like an answer to the question of what his basis is to believe that in such an organization that unites, public character always prevails. What's the argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u78	I think I explained that very clearly. I submitted three cases to the Secretary of State. Let's not be so suspicious. Let us assume that in 80% or 90% of the cases the public and special schools agree that they want to give good education. There are, of course, points of discussion. I mentioned a few points, such as the Christmas celebration or the homosexual teacher, about which discussion may arise. My party says that then public school should prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u79	Thank you very much. Then we will listen to Mr Van Meenen. He's eager to make his contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u80	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my speech, I cannot fail to comment on the indignation shown by Mr Rog here. I also disagree with Mr Van Dijk when he says that public character must always prevail in advance. However, Mr Rog stated here half an hour ago that the administrative association could never be carried out under a public administration. Then the special should prevail. It is therefore not entirely strange to measure with double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u81	This calls for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u82	Yeah, this is entrapment. Perhaps Mr Van Meenen can then begin his contribution by reflecting on the constitutional character and the constitutional guarantee of public and special education and why he thinks, in spite of all kinds of teaching lawyers, the Council of State, the Education Council, etc., that a school of cooperation under public administration is a fantastic idea. It would be nice if Mr Van Meenen, instead of making accusations, could give an explanation. How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u83	I'm not blaming anyone. All I see is that letting one thing prevail over another in one case is a good reason to question a colleague and, in the other case, it is self-evident that it prevails, whether or not supported by the Constitution. I am not going to work on that here, because I do not have time to do so. I have said enough about it, because in my view it can be...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u84	Mr. Rog, one moment. We have a bill here. I think, also in view of the hour on the evening, that we should focus primarily on that. I really do not think that we are discussing comprehensive general discourses on this extremely important subject at the moment. Make your question a little more specific than asking for a general explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u85	I will, but it is Mr Van Meenen who brings this up out of nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u86	That's why I allowed you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u87	Mr Van Meenen has interrupted me with the question of why we have tabled an amendment which regulates that a school of special character under a special administration can be an excellent school of cooperation. Can Mr Van Meenen explain why he believes that a school of cooperation could be excellent under public administration? Isn't that contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u88	That's two different things. If two schools wish to go together and choose to do so either under a special administration or under a public administration, this can work very well. This is completely separate from the Constitution. Whether it works properly depends only on how people shape this cooperation locally. In doing so, the Constitution does not matter at all. Mr Rog's argument that this is not possible is the Constitution. Of what Article 23 of the Constitution makes possible or not, you can find anything. We will find a lot of that, but my point is that quite a few people have run away with the freedom of education in the last century. Those people have granted themselves that freedom, as has just been shown in the debate on admission. I have said it before: whose is the freedom of education? My thesis is and remains: it belongs to the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u89	I'd like to know what D66 says in this. I know that party is closer to the SP than to the CDA when it comes to article 23, but maybe I'm wrong. I gave a case. Suppose, after a heated discussion, a school of cooperation decides to devote more attention to the Christmas story, the birth of the Lord Jesus, in the lessons, and there is also a public teacher who doesn't have much to do with faith. What then is the solution of your party if it is decided by majority: public teacher you need to do more about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u90	In my contribution, I will come back to dispute resolution in the case of a school of cooperation, not specifically in this case but more generally. If Mr Van Dijk will allow me, I will tell my story first. If there's a question left, I'll be happy to answer it. By the way, I found his case so I learned: one case, two case very enlightening. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's answers. Mr President, I am glad that my time is still standing still. A great service!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u91	I'm gonna let him walk again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u92	Now let him walk extra fast, 'cause I'm gonna make it quick. Mr. Chairman. D66 is positive about the present bill. It makes school cooperation easier than it is now. At the same time, it continues to offer scope for choosing a certain identity as a school. As far as D66 is concerned, that is real freedom of education. Cooperation between schools can be highly desirable, for example in shrinking areas if there are not enough pupils to keep multiple schools open. But as far as D66 is concerned, it's not just about shrinking areas. The government only wants to enable the school of cooperation in exceptional circumstances, and it does so by setting a so-called continuity criterion: a school of cooperation should only be created if continuity is at stake. This is established on the basis of simple formulas. Let me mention just one: the lifting standard plus 67,797 minus 0,339 times the lifting standard. Of course! That is the way it must have been meant by those who had Article 23 in mind. Those are the ways you keep evil out of the door, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u93	Mr Bruins, I see you want to interrupt. However, Mr Van Meenen has only registered for five minutes. Do you think it's okay that we let him finish his speech first? If so, then I will be the first to allow you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u94	Too bad, too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u95	You cannot always have it as you wish, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u96	No! A Protestant-public school, to name but one combination, must only be created by a merger and not be founded. I don't keep finding it these days, because why wouldn't you want a school like that? Where's the resistance? Is that protecting your own pillar? The possibility of setting up such a school is also freedom of education, isn't it? D66 would like to remove this unnecessary barrier for schools to work together. The SP has tabled an amendment to remove, among other things, the continuity criterion from this legislative proposal. We will wholeheartedly support this amendment. Once again, this does not apply to the amendment in which public character prevails in advance. Next, a few comments on the division of roles between public and special education and the final power of perseverance. A large number of amendments have also been tabled on this subject. What happens if there is a conflict between the identity committee, the municipality, the umbrella school boards and the administration of the cooperation school itself, for example because the education is not public enough or is not special enough? By the way, I don't want to make this problem any bigger than it is. Fortunately, the current informal cooperation schools do not experience any problems in this respect. The government also likes to leave this to the schools, by means of a dispute procedure which they themselves form. In order to strike a good balance between public and special education in the school of cooperation, this seems to me to be a right choice. That is the answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. Let us ensure that schools come to a dispute procedure. Let the schools settle their own disputes and let us not do so in advance or afterwards in this Chamber. However, it would be a good thing to monitor this properly, especially if the choice of public education comes to an end. I ask the Secretary of State if he intends to keep a finger on the wrist at this point. My group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal. However, as far as we are concerned, the freedom to cooperate may become even greater. We will continue to work on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u97	There is another question from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u98	I have nurtured the formula: lifting standard + 67,797 - 0,339 x lifting standard. That formula is fantastic. Compliments to the employees of the Ministry! That formula comes out beautifully at 200 in the event of an lifting standard of 200.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u99	Fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u100	Yeah, if betas are a rare species of animal here in the Chamber, it should be possible for one another. I have tabled an amendment which deletes this complicated formula and which says that under 60 it is okay to do so. This means that in shrinking areas we give more space than we do now and that we give less space in densely populated areas. Because of this wonderful formula, which we love so much, a third of schools in the Netherlands will soon be given the opportunity to become a school of cooperation, even if there is no threat of abolition. Does Mr Van Meenen think that there is still an exceptional situation and that this law complies with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u101	What is an exception is not an objectively defined concept. It is about Mr Bruins that I am quite right to say that there is an opportunity to do so in the situation proposed by the cabinet. There's no obligation to do that. There is no school in the Netherlands that is obliged by this bill to become a cooperative school. That's freedom. I am concerned that the choice of whether or not to become a school of cooperation rests with the parents of that school. That is what I am maintaining here, and I do not need a continuity criterion for that. I only need the criterion that those for whom that school exists want it. As a government, we must stay very far away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u102	I agree with Mr Van Meenen that you can discuss where this law still complies with the Constitution. As the formula is now, it leads to the possibility for one third of schools to become a cooperation school. So what is the taste, Mr Van Meenen's assessment? Are we still talking about exceptions? Or are we dealing with a law that violates the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u103	I'm not a lawyer. Mr Bruins has already said it. I'm just a simple mathematician, so yeah, what's an exception? We've already established that it can't be cut with scissors. I fully understand Mr Bruins' question. If I were to say that it is contrary to the Constitution, then we are dealing here with an inappropriate legislative proposal. I'm not going that far. I think that the bill is an excellent legislative proposal, which can work very well in our country's practice, and which actually gives the freedom of education back to some extent to those to whom it belongs, and those are not the drivers in chalk-line suits who decide which pupil is admissible or not. No, it's just the parents of children in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u104	Mr. Chairman. I understand I'm really lagging behind right now, 'cause I'm gonna come in here in my chalk stripe suit and you know it. Then my colleague's opinion is clear. After years of intensive debate, there has been broad support for amending the Constitution in 2006 in order to enable a school of cooperation. The basis for this could be the confidence that this solution was intended only for emergencies. That's how it's regulated in the law. Unfortunately, the exceptional nature of the cooperation school has disappeared in this bill. Through this bill, as many as a third of all schools are eligible to become a school of cooperation. My question is: is the legislator not responsible for preventing thousands of schools from being eligible in advance? This is, in fact, a violation of the dual system as we know it, a system which has proved its worth and which results from its results in a year or so and, as far as I am concerned, the freedom of education associated with it. The intention of the Constitution is crystal clear in this case, according to the Council of State. It is precisely because the Council of State is always reluctant in its judgments that it is quite remarkable that the Council of State has given its opinion on this matter "contradictory with the Constitution." Tension with the Constitution is often found in the advice given by the Council of State, but it even speaks of conflict with the Constitution. Surely it is not enough for the government to say that it sees it differently? Does the legislator not have a duty to seek better compliance with the principles of the Constitution? For the SGP, the core of this debate lies in the crucial criterion of continuity. The intention of the Constitution is clear, also according to the Council of State and other experts: the threat of abolition must be the result of the development in apprenticeship numbers. That is no longer the case in this bill. The government raises a smokescreen, with permission, by still using the term "continuity" but broadening its implementation. For example, the view of directors on the desirability of a merger can also play an important role. A school that lives well above the lifting standard without any dirt on the air should simply become a school of cooperation. Why aren't these schools getting in the way? That is precisely the contradiction with the principle enshrined in the Constitution, which the Council of State also points out. How is this consistent with the Constitution's assertion that unnecessary opportunities should be excluded as far as possible, even for the sake of diversity in supply? As the external supervision of the competent authority in relation to identity largely lapses, the monitoring of that identity will mainly rest on the shoulders of the identity committee. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the legal guarantees for the maintenance of public and special education by this committee must be sufficient. The legislative proposal merely stipulates that there must be a balanced composition of the Committee on Identity and, as far as we are concerned, that is a good standard to start with. It is particularly important, however, that the members of the committee appointed for the purpose of public education or special education in the case of decisions on such education should have a "supervisory influence" in legal terms. That is not what the proposal says. I have therefore tabled an amendment to item No. 14, on which I would like to receive a response. This amendment guarantees diversity within the school of cooperation and gives the Committee on Identity much more room for manoeuvre than just to go through it either by majority or to a dispute committee. The government leaves the role of the identity committee to those involved. In any case, it is clear that the committee should only be given an advisory status. This modest interpretation has been chosen because the government does not want to interfere with the competent authority. That freedom usually sounds like music to us, but it is precisely in the case of the cooperation school that the question is whether this is the best solution. Once we want the school of cooperation, it is important that the interests of both sides, of the different denominations, are well and firmly secured. In this context, the SGP considers an advisory status and an uncertain outcome of dispute resolution to be too low. The cooperation school is generally accessible. This makes the explicit amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk on this point superfluous in itself. The SGP understands this principle because pupils are admitted to the school as such and not to public or special education in that school. In order to ensure that all pupils can receive public education, admission must be guaranteed. At the same time, the possibility of exclusive special education within that school remains. Can the government confirm that the view on the accessibility of the cooperation school has not changed compared to the current law? Finally, the proposal assumes that parents with a formal school of cooperation would be better off than an informal school of cooperation. That assumption is questionable in our view, because in any case the school of cooperation remains a more complex instruction, in theory and in practice, than the normal school. The school of cooperation is actually an impossible possibility, which, legally speaking, always raises tensions. Legally, it'll always be a bit of a sand. It's a solution in situations where there's really nothing else you can do. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the commitment of those involved should be primarily aimed at finding solutions other than the formal school of cooperation? Moreover, the SGP considers that it is a rather curious gesture and that it is not desirable that schools should be allowed to form cooperation schools with retroactive effect. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that for the sake of time. I see a colleague has already left, and I will be leaving soon, because I have to catch the last train.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u105	The last train does go fast. We shall go briefly to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u106	Keep him short, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u107	I would ask you both to be brief. I'm sure that last train will do the trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u108	You are putting me in conscience trouble now, because my interruption would mean that Mr Bishop would miss his train...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u109	You can do it very briefly, and so can Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u110	If you continue now...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u111	I'm moving on fast. I would like to ask Mr Bishop what he intended with his question to the Secretary of State: does the special nature of the school of cooperation still exist, even when it comes to admission policy? What did he mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u112	A student is admitted to the cooperation school, but a cooperation school can have different accents. Depending on the identity of parts of such a school, a student can fit very well or less well. I think that, judging by the question with which a student is best served, you should keep educational space to make choices. That is actually the essence of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u113	But can these choices imply that the special part within the cooperation school says: we would like to have students who fit into our basis and who actively endorse it? In that case, my amendment is not superfluous at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u114	That's not gonna happen very often. It is not obvious that this type of school, with a strong identity, will switch to a cooperation school. It is clear that this is an aspect of setting up education. As far as we're concerned, this shouldn't change either.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u115	Mr. Chairman. Where the numbers of pupils are decreasing, this has a major impact on education. It is a pity not only if this leads to the disappearance of schools, sometimes with a long tradition, but also for parents and pupils, the choice of educational provision is distorted. Discussions in the Lower House on shrinkage in education have already led to a number of adjustments and flexibilisation of regulation over the past period. Education legislation often has its origins at a time when the population grew in the Netherlands, but this is no longer the case in 2016. In order to give every child the opportunity, our education must be future-proof, even in areas where the numbers of pupils are shrinking and the survival of a school is therefore being called into question. The VVD is therefore pleased that we have already taken a number of steps in recent years, recognising the huge challenge of keeping shrinkage, quality and freedom of choice in balance. Tonight's discussion fits in with this line as far as I am concerned. In recent years, we have discussed, among other things, the merger and the rules associated with it on a regular basis. Soon we will be talking about this again. A merger is not always a solution because it can also destroy the identity of schools. An opportunity to go together, but to preserve the differences in the identity of the schools, is the so-called cooperation school where two different schools combine under one roof. Since 2011, it has been possible to create such a cooperation school, but its conditions are so strict that it is hardly used in practice. However, there are more and more informal forms of cooperation. So we want to work together, and that is profit, especially in shrinking areas, but it is the tough conditions that are now being imposed on the school of cooperation that are in the way of schools. That's too bad. In the case of informal cooperation, there is no certainty that the differences in identity of the partners will be maintained in the long term. The freedom of choice for parents to choose the school with the identity that best suits their child is lost. Thus, in shrinking regions, the formal school of cooperation could be a solution in order to avoid any further deterioration of education and to maintain parental freedom of choice. The relaxation proposed now makes the relationship between public and special education more balanced. At present, public administration can only contribute to the formation of a school of cooperation by giving one of its schools to the special administration. In the new situation, public administration may also be the competent authority of a cooperation school. I welcome this proposal in the light of the motion I tabled in September 2014 to make the possibilities for action between special and public education more uniform. I still have a few more questions. The first one is about the identity committee. The statutes of the competent authority or school board in so far as they relate to the identity committee and any amendments thereto shall require the agreement of the municipal council. In addition, the cooperation board must report annually to the city council. Why was it chosen to make the cooperation board responsible for this report and not the identity committee itself? What are the powers of the city council in relation to this report? Is there sufficient knowledge among the members of the city council to be able to judge this correctly? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The legislative proposal makes the standards under which the school of cooperation can be implemented more flexible. It is no longer the case that a school should be below the lifting standard before cooperation is allowed. Even if there is a threat of continuity, formal cooperation may be initiated. That is now designed in a formula. It has been discussed before, so I will not repeat it. To what extent can schools cope sufficiently with this? What, for example, were the reactions from the practice collected in the drafting of this bill? New regulations are now also on the table to create more room for new schools. In particular, the category "general special" is currently a collective category and needs to be renewed and widened. I ask the Secretary of State whether this regulation for the school of cooperation has taken account of any new schools that may arise. To what extent can they also form cooperation schools in the future? My final question to the Secretary of State is why he didn't include a law review in the bill. Finally, the legislative proposal is partly motivated by dissatisfaction with the functioning of the current legislation. We are adapting them now, but that does not mean that we are sure that things are going to work out better in practice. In any case, it always seems to me wise to review legislation periodically. I have therefore tabled an amendment on this point. As far as I am concerned, this specific law should also take into account how the use of this legislation develops in the various regions. I'm rounding up. Shrimp is a fact and with that it is a huge challenge for education to shape it well. This requires smart solutions from proactive school management to keep shrinkage, quality and freedom of choice in balance. Cooperation between school boards can help. It is therefore necessary to simplify the current rules for cooperation. On behalf of the VVD, I therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u116	Mr. Chairman. This bill could provide a solution to the problem of shrinkage and drop in apprenticeships. The current legislation is insufficient to manage these developments now. Now it is only possible to set up a cooperation school if the number of pupils in one of the schools concerned falls below the abolition standard within six years. School boards in areas with drop in apprenticeships often already decide to close schools before the lifting standard comes into play, for example because the existence of a larger number of small schools could threaten the financial health of a school administration. For example, there is a risk of continuity before the lifting standard is reached. Schools that want to move forward together because of shrinkage will no longer have to wait for this bill to actually be lifted. This proposal rehabilitates the continuity criterion. It guarantees the equivalence of public and special education, while ensuring the special identity and public character of the school by the identity committees at school level. It's a real polder solution and we should be happy about that. Finally, the bill provides for a school of cooperation to be maintained by a public education foundation. We think that's a strange figure. Other parties have already referred to this. I wonder how the Secretary of State will react to this. School boards have indicated that the bill is in line with practice. This makes it feasible and feasible as far as our group is concerned. The proposal provides more room for schools to cope with drop in pupils. It also provides more security for parents. However, we do believe that a school of cooperation should remain an exception for those cases which cannot be achieved in any other way. We therefore ask the Secretary of State to ensure that this exemption is granted. We'd like to get a response. Perhaps he can ensure that the critical parties can also be kept on board. I'm closing up. The aim of the bill is to provide solutions to make it easier to set up formal cooperation schools in shrinking areas and to stop the growth of informal cooperation schools. This bill is therefore also on the list of urgent legislative proposals. We understand the urgency, too. We are in principle in favour of this law. Beautiful, viable primary schools in the village are of enormous importance for the cohesion and vitality of a village. Sometimes we have to pay for that. We have to turn in some things for it sometimes, but we get a lot in return. As far as PVV is concerned, the most important thing is that it stays with exceptions. We therefore warmly invite the Secretary of State to bring this bill into balance. That's all I want to say. And I would also like to say that these are always nice debates, even though it is late at night. That's also because of one of those hooligans from the PVV, pardon the SP, that's dangling right through the porcelain cabinet. It always comes to nice debates, and that is something that can be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u117	As chairman, I share that completely. Mr Van Dijk would also like to add a compliment to that, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u118	I just think of it as a nickname.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-12-14-tweedekamer-15.u119	The follow-up to this debate will be scheduled for next week.
