ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Aruba's 2016 budget should have been ready by the end of the year. The government asked the College of Aruba for financial supervision to be postponed and for its introduction to start on 31 January 2016. It's now February 2nd and the work isn't done yet. To say that there have been many political changes in Aruba is absolutely not the case. Aruba is in a unique position that it has a government that can rely on one party that has the absolute majority since 2009. The Prime Minister of Aruba was crystal clear five years ago that there would be a balanced budget for Aruba. The special thing was that that balance sheet would only be made if the revenues were to catch up with the over-expenditure. That is not the case to this day, despite all promises. How reliable is Aruba as a partner in agreements relating to financial soundness? When I finish the list, I see that the treatment of Aruba's budgets was always too late. The last one, 2016, is again not in accordance with the opinion of the College Aruba financial supervision. I would like to mention a number of points on which the College of Aruba is critical of financial supervision. The College considers that it is advisable to use a more prudent estimate of nominal economic growth. The planned decrease in staff costs, including the employer's contribution of 6 million Antillean guilders, lags significantly behind the 90 million reduction envisaged by the Government of Aruba. The financial management of Aruba is not yet in order. On the basis of a self-assessment carried out by Aruba itself, it can be concluded that 42% of the indicators in financial management do not meet the minimum requirements. That is why I have the following questions. Why does the Eman government of Aruba have every opportunity to demonstrate that it is unable to come up with a correct budget in good time and in substance? What agreements are we going to make in the future to get Aruba to sound financial management?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman expressed his concern about developments in the Aruba budget. He pointed out that the budget was not adopted too late for the first time. The government shares these concerns. That is also the reason why, in consultation with Aruba, we have established the College Aruba financial supervision, which is similar to the college that was already working for the other countries within the Kingdom. That college has assessed the budget and made a number of comments. That is also why the States of Aruba are still discussing this budget at the moment. The commitment is, of course, that the Government of Aruba will eventually and in the short term present a budget that can pass the test of criticism. The College of Aruba financial supervision will therefore look again at the budget and advise the National Council of Ministers on the budget that will be adopted after the discussions that are taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u3	That is good to hear, but we have to conclude that the CAft, the College Aruba financial supervision, has already made a judgment. There's solid lyrics in there. I mentioned two, but I shall mention one more. Finally, the College noted that Aruba's resilience is nil and that its negative equity amounts to 2.4 billion Antillean guilders by the end of 2014. That's a big worry. You can see that Aruba is unable to get that budget in order. We make appointments every time. I have here another balanced budget agreement signed by the cabinet itself. I am glad that the government is in talks with the Government of Aruba, but it has been for some time now. How do we force Aruba not only to conduct a sustainability discussion on the environment and climate, but also a sustainability discussion on the sustainability of finances? If there is something worrying, then it is that huge financial gap that arises on Aruba without any steps being taken to close that gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u4	The concerns about the financial gap, as expressed by Mr Bosman, are shared by the government. That was also the reason not only to talk to the government of Aruba, but also to set up a college of financial supervision for Aruba. That College Aruba financial supervision has indeed made critical comments. However, I cannot immediately conclude that the problem will not be solved. The hope and, of course, the expectation is that, on the basis of the advice of the College itself, the Government of Aruba will come forward with proposals and measures to close that gap. In relations within the Kingdom, an independent country within the Kingdom itself has the responsibility to put the budget in order and to take the appropriate measures. If that is not the case, it is up to the National Council of Ministers to consider whether additional measures should be taken. It is, however, the government itself that must, in consultation with the States, give effect to that financial statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u5	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u6	I agree. However, we have seen in the past how that works in the Antilles, what happens when the financial position is no longer sustainable in the Antilles. We know where the bill is presented, namely to the Dutch taxpayer. It's just gonna end up here. That is why the VVD considers it important that this control is sharp. We now see, with all due respect to the college, that supervises that well...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As I said at the beginning of my contribution, it is remarkable that Aruba gets that space every time. After all, it has a government with a majority party that has been in power for five years and these steps are not being taken. The VVD expresses its disappointment at this, which is perhaps not a question..... that Aruba has not been able to achieve a balanced budget in those five years and thus a better future for the people of Aruba.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u7	I share the disappointment that it has repeatedly failed to arrive on time with a budget. That is also the reason for the additional measures. Mr Bosman pointed out that the bill would always end up with the Netherlands. As he is no doubt aware, the financial relationship between the Netherlands and Aruba is different from that between the Netherlands and the other countries of the Antilles. On the other hand, funding is really regulated through the Netherlands. Aruba goes independently to the capital market. That must also be an incentive in itself to get the budget in order, but there is absolutely still work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-02-02-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you.
