ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, as well as the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mr Merkies as the first speaker. Mr Merkies spoke on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me outline a little bit about how a debate like this is generally going. First there are some generally well-managed speeches by financial spokesmen and then there is a story of the Prime Minister in which he generally lists some lists. That is a fairly long speech that has already been prepared without knowing our questions, for which officials have been hard at work and in which we come out well as the Netherlands. After this commercial break follow the real answers. The risk is always that it is said: this is too specific, this is actually something for other ministers. I would actually think it would be a good idea if the whole profession were full and all the ministers would be present. If there is a difficult question, then we can call these ministers forward. That may also be an idea for the Accountability debate. I think that a number of VVD ministers in particular would be called forward frequently. Of course, that has everything to do with the General Court, which has found serious shortcomings in the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Office and not least in the Ministry of Security and Justice. They've never been so negative in their judgment. When I talk about "serious imperfections," I mean in plain Dutch that it's a huge gang. It's a huge gang in the Department of Security and Justice. We saw that yesterday. Apparently they are organized themselves so badly that they could not even organize a cover-up. The Ministry's barely getting checked out. The Ministry can't really prove what happened to the money on V and J. Isn't that very painful, at a time when security in society is so under pressure and confidence in that ministry has fallen to such a low point? To what extent can we still rely on information from the Ministry of Security and Justice? There have been cuts in all areas of security and justice. We now look back at the year 2015 and look forward to the year 2016. Last year we also discussed it extensively. I've highlighted the state's attorney's office at the time. In Rutte I and II, as much as 20% of the budget has been cut. Now, last weekend, another leaked internal note showed that the State's Attorney's Office sounded the emergency clock at the Ministry. Things remain on the shelf because of the lack of capacity. This does not allow enough attention to be paid to tackling organised crime. They even say they're not ready for an attack if it were to be committed. Cybercrime cannot be dealt with. Trafficking in human beings cannot be sufficiently addressed. Those are really very serious things. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister if he recognizes this statue. The D.A.'s office says it's supposed to be 40 million in structural terms. The question is whether the cabinet comes to the same conclusion and believes that this should be included. It's not just a matter of money. The Ministry is just too big. Yesterday they also discussed it in detail. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it was just not a good idea to put police under the V and J ministry? And doesn't the ministry function too party politics? Ever since the VVD delivered the directors, you can see that information hasn't gotten any better. Information is supplied fragmentedly and sometimes not at all. Control of the ministry from the Chamber and society is therefore simply not possible, and that is a serious matter. The control of national police is also poorly possible. Moreover, the General Court says that the formation of the national police has begun with the unrealistic assumption that a task could be carried out simultaneously with the construction of a centralised management system. Any normal-minded person would agree to that, but does the Prime Minister agree? Does the Prime Minister also see the capacity problem in the police and throughout the criminal justice chain? In the field of security, I'm also thinking of the Defense Department. I'd like to know how the Department of Defense forgot to report a budget overrun of 400 million. We'll find it in the Final Act, but hasn't the Chamber been sidelined? Moreover, there are serious exceedances here too, shortcomings. I have to use the right word: "massive gang" in normal human language. The General Court of Auditors said last year and also now says that the defence industry is making a huge change in itself and is doing predatory work. DOD needs to make sharper choices. Is she going to make it and give us more insight into the maintenance process? The last serious flaw is with the Tax Office. Last year it was actually the same story. There are highly outdated systems. The Minister of Finance says: we started it last year, so it would be a miracle if things were going well now. The Investment Agenda would have taken a new path and there will be a roadmap. I've been here for about ten years and I haven't heard anything else in the last ten years. We have had several programs to reduce complexity in ICT. About nine years ago, we had the plan of approach simplification operation Tax Service of De Jager. In it he found exactly the same things: outdated systems, legacy. In five to ten years, that would have been resolved and all systems would have been replaced. Well, that's where we are now. It looks a bit like the film Groundhog Day, in which the lead singer starts the same day every time. Only the leading player got smarter and learned from the previous days. That doesn't seem to be the case with the Tax Office. For example, if a new plan is to come in a few years' time, simplification of the tax administration and now really or something like that, I ask the General Court not to monitor it, but simply to keep monitoring the old system, the old programme. I'm also curious about the monitoring of De Jager's plan. We should not start over every time and pretend there has been nothing in the past. If we start every time from the beginning, it's like we haven't learned anything. The General Court has also identified problems with the GGZ. They haven't been solved yet. In addition, there are striking shortcomings. It is strange that there is so much money left, while at the same time there are huge waiting lists for the ggz. We are all familiar with the problem of confused persons. It's very strange that these people can't be helped, also because you're actually moving the problem to another field. The fact that too little money is spent here ends up on the police sign, which is already under enormous pressure and is dealing with all those confused people and their actions. There are more examples of savings in one area causing problems in another. We all heard the shocking news last weekend that patients are being refused hospital emergency services because it's too crowded there. There are more and more elderly people who are not well-organised and cared for at home. It's gonna happen to you that you're in an ambulance and you're gonna have to stay on the side of the road. I hope it never happens to the rulers. Does the Prime Minister see any connection to this gap in the care of the elderly? Hundreds of nursing homes are closed. As a result, people have to stay home longer. But they don't get the care they need there either. After all, there has been huge savings in home care. In the letter of fire it says: this does not allow simple medical assistance or nursing to be provided early, which quickly escalates the demand for help in an emergency care demand and inevitably in hospital visits. Does the Prime Minister see this connection? Does he intend to remove the planned additional savings of half a billion more on institutional care for the elderly and the disabled? Last year there were a lot of problems with the pgb, just like the year before. It was then decided that the case would be carried out centrally by the SVB. A lot went wrong there, a lot had to be done manually. You can see that there has been a huge overrun: initially it would have been 810 million, but that has become 1.2 billion. We haven't had a good answer for that yet, which I'm still waiting for. Can we still have it? Surely we cannot say: we are talking about the fence thrown at the municipalities, who have to justify it? It is indeed nationwide, so I like to have a national responsibility. Moreover, according to the Court, the underlying causes have not yet been resolved. Some bottlenecks are already known to be resolved in 2016. At the end of 2016, the same malaise threatens to return. How does the cabinet anticipate that? A few years ago, under the leadership of our Prime Minister, it was decided to raise the AOW age. The idea was that older people would work longer. But in reality we see that there are too few jobs. Older people just stand aside, they can't get a job. SZW has around eight schemes to help people over 50 years of age get a job. But what does it turn out to be? Mr Asscher does not know how many older unemployed people make use of these schemes. Some measures he doesn't even know how much they cost. How is that possible? Then a logical recommendation from the Court of Auditors is to measure the number of older people reached by policy instrument. And that's what you think: that's what any normal thinking person can think of. But then Minister Asscher replied that he was going to see what he was doing with the recommendations. When I come home in response to the question whether I want to take out the garbage bag, answer that I'm going to see if I'm going to do that, I don't have a happy day. Seeing if you're doing anything isn't really an answer. You can just say this is a good idea, right? Then let's just do it. Finally, I come to the 30% rule, a rule for expats. A few years ago, in 2012, that rule was changed. The first 30% of the salary of expats is not taken into account for the Tax Administration. Only then will taxation start, including all kinds of exemptions. At first, it was examined whether you had a scarce expertise. Then it was said: we are going to do it easier, namely on salary. If you earn more than €36,889, you'll be part of the rich group of expats and you'll get even richer. I think this has something very perverse. Does the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance agree? It is really very strange that only those people get a bonus, especially now that the General Court has said that it does not even know if this works. The cabinet does not keep track of whether this is effective, based on the idea of obtaining expertise from other countries. It also has something crazy when European countries start competing with rules to get rich people away from each other. I think this has something very perverse. So the question is whether this has an effect on the location climate. Do you really bring in scarce expertise with this? Actually, we don't know that. Moreover, there is uncertainty about costs, because they have actually only increased. In recent years, they have increased by another 100 million while, according to the new measure, they should actually decrease in 2012. There is, in fact, a lack of clarity about this too. Unclearness is therefore a trump card. I would like this to be clarified. It's now about 700 million. We do not know what the effect is and whether the money ends up with people who simply do not need it. Should the cabinet not therefore consider abolishing this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u3	That is precisely what my question is about: what exactly is the SP's proposal? Should the system be better organised so that it is focused on its content? This means: these people are scarce in the Netherlands and we have to get them out of the country; let's do this more effectively. Or does the SP simply say that this should be abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u4	I'll put it in perspective. This is a measure of 700 million. I was just talking about an amount of 40 million, which means that we cannot deal with serious crime and which puts things on the table. So this is only 40 million. Here's 700 million. A large part of that money comes from people who don't need it. I'd say get rid of this. Instead, you can indeed set up a better system: if you really make costs, there is another story. Now, however, it is simply this: if you are rich enough and fall into the rich part, you also get extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u5	I do acknowledge that, because I too am concerned about the budgetary impact of this whole story, but I do hear the SP say that they want to think about a better arrangement in terms of real added value, in terms of functions that we otherwise cannot fulfil and in terms of attracting innovation and expertise to us, so that it remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u6	As far as costs actually incurred are concerned, someone who goes from one province to another also incurs costs for the relocation. So we shouldn't go through this to the infinity. Remember Don Shepard, Aegon's boss, was taken from abroad and made $6 million? The tax authorities don't even look at the first 2 million, and of the next 4 million, he may be allowed to subtract things and so on. That's really not proportionate to the costs he has. So now we are really dealing with a slippery measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr. Chairman. This is the last year of responsibility of the Rutte II cabinet. The Rutte II cabinet has done a heavy job. Due to the economic crisis, strong measures were needed. Everyone in the Netherlands has felt that. This has also led to uncertainty among people, but the measures we have taken have been taken because we wanted the economy to grow again, more people to work and the budget deficit to fall. In short, the Netherlands had to get stronger out of the crisis. It is therefore good to see that the Netherlands is doing better now. That's what you can see from the companies that are expanding and investing, and from the wages that have risen again. People have confidence again and spend more. The housing market attracts, fewer houses are underwater and people dare to buy a house again. We are therefore making economic progress again and we owe this result to the hardworking Netherlands. In 2013 there were bright spots, in 2014, according to the Minister of Finance, the sun was really shining and in 2015 it continued to grow by 2%. Exports also contributed positively to this. The Netherlands is back in place five of the list of countries with the most competitive economies in the world. The Netherlands had never had so many jobs: more than 10 million. Thanks to all hardworking Dutch people, SMEs,zzp'ers and farmers, 100,000 jobs were added in 2015. Unemployment fell from 660,000 to 614,000, but remains still too high. Public debt has also fallen for the first time since 2006, and this is not insignificant for the future and for future generations. The budget deficit has also fallen to 1.8% and is therefore less high than expected, and the General Court has again approved the 2015 National Account. As far as we are concerned, none of this is a reason to sit back. After all, we still spend EUR 34 million a day too much. 2015 was also an eventful year. There was international unrest and instability. The attacks in Europe caused uncertainty about security for many Dutch people, including in their own countries. But the large flows of refugees also created uncertainty. Can we handle it, and is my neighborhood still safe? The VVD said that it would tackle the refugee crisis and it did so. Last year there had to be considerable additional costs, but the Turkey deal has also brought results. But we certainly cannot sit back at this point either. Like I said, we're not here yet, and there's still work to be done. This also applies to resolving the shortcomings in financial management in the management of a number of ministries. The criticism of the General Court of Auditors is firm on points which we cannot and must not ignore. However, I would first like to mention a few positive points. The number of shortcomings in the management of the Empire has decreased from 50 to 27, as has the total number of imperfections in Defence and V and J. In addition, the shortcomings in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs have all been resolved. Deficiencies in procurement and information security have also been greatly reduced. My compliments on that. However, there have been more serious shortcomings: three instead of one. At that point, therefore, we still need to get our hands on the ground. The problems identified in the operations of the Ministry of Security and Justice, the Ministry of Defence and the Tax Administration do not fall out of the sky. These are complex problems that in some cases have been going on for several years and require an adequate and structural solution. How is the cabinet going to solve these problems and at what rate? What should be done to ensure, at least, that there are no further serious deficiencies next year? The VVD notes that measures have already been taken in the ministries and that they have also been launched. Examples include the Broad Agenda and the Investment Agenda of the Tax Administration from 2014 and 2015, and measures were also taken at the Ministry of Security and Justice at the end of 2015. In addition, the Ministry of Defence has been working from a difficult starting position over the past three years to address the financial problems. The VVD wants this approach to be pursued vigorously, but we realize that you can't jump off the floor in the attic and that it takes time to put an organisation back in order. The VVD has a number of questions about this. Are additional measures needed and, if so, what? Can the approach be accelerated in a responsible way? Are the serious deficiencies taken up next year in such a way that the label is no longer "serious" and what else is needed? For example, are there sufficient investment budgets for the Tax Administration's IT approach to solve the problems there? And why were the improvement points regarding the control function at the Ministry of Security and Justice not implemented in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u8	The VVD asks the government if there are sufficient budgets at the Tax Office, while there is a billion euro on the shelf for investment, including in ICT. But does the VVD also ask the same question about the Ministry of Security and Justice? The D.A. says it cracks and squeaks and they can't handle it. Colleague Merkies referred to this as well. The National Detective has published an extremely critical report. The prison system can't handle it. The national police aren't running. Is there also the question of extra budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u9	For example, I mentioned the approach of IT in the Tax Administration. I think we should take the signal sent by the D.A.'s office this morning very seriously. During the budget debate, a motion was passed to examine in the spring paper whether additional money should be sent to the Ministry of Security and Justice, including the Public Prosecutor's Office. That motion was supported by the VVD. As Mr Omtzigt knows, we consider it important to invest in security.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u10	So far, only safety savings have been made. Apparently, the VVD wants to reverse that in the year before the election. The Ministry and the Minister themselves write in their annual report that the chain has been strengthened, that the rule of law has improved and that everything works. Does the VVD Group share those conclusions from the Ministry of Security and Justice's annual report? Or does it share the conclusions of the General Court, which says that the Ministry is not in control? That picture was also somewhat confirmed yesterday in Mr Oosting's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u11	I think there are major challenges at the Ministry of Security and Justice. There is a reason that extra money was made available for the Ministry last year. We are concerned about a number of developments, for example about the degree of clarification. That is too low as far as we are concerned. That is why, some time ago, we also tabled a motion for an attack plan to increase the clearance rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u12	But then the key question remains. The only people who don't think it doesn't work are the minister and the ministry itself. They write in their annual report that the chain of custody is, from the time the crime is committed, that the police, the prosecutor, the court and the prisons are better functioning and robust. Does the VVD take that conclusion? Or does she renounce it, as Mrs De Vries just did, and does she think that the Minister should draw a different conclusion about his own ministry for 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u13	Measures have been launched in the Ministry of Security and Justice in recent years. The Court of Auditors has also indicated that they are good measures, but they will still have to prove themselves in practice. That is why I have a number of questions to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mrs De Vries makes the point that the problem was actually there a few years ago and that we need to do something about it. Is that the image Mrs De Vries sketches?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u15	I don't think I used the words "putting points on the i." I said that we should take the observations and comments of the Court of Auditors very seriously and not ignore them at all. We need to look at the measures that have already been put in motion and are following closely whether they are going to have the desired result, but I do not think we should have the illusion that we can solve this with a snap. They are incredibly complex problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u16	Again, things have been going on for a long time. For example, the transition to the national police was made precisely as the solution that would really solve the problems. The problems have only gotten bigger. There are major problems throughout the criminal justice chain. Mrs De Vries puts a bit of the picture that we are on the right path. Can it at least indicate whether it agrees with the Public Prosecutor's Office that there is a large capacity shortage and that 40 billion should be added? Sorry, I'm saying it wrong; I can see the Minister of Finance watching. We need 40 million more in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u17	As I said in response to Mr Omtzigt's interruption, I think we should take the message from the Public Prosecutor very seriously. I also referred back then to a motion adopted at the time, also with the support of the VVD. So I don't think it's true that we don't take it seriously. I didn't say that at all. We believe it is important that good measures are taken. Some of them started at the end of last year. They must therefore prove their impact in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u18	So I'm not getting an answer. Can Mrs De Vries simply say yes or no to the question of whether she thinks there is a structural need for an additional 40 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u19	I believe that we have supported this motion. Mr Merkies knows our position on investing in safety, but we make that choice at another time. We also make this choice integral to many other priorities that remain, but security is very important to us. I have two further points to make on the shortcomings. The Minister of Finance is systemically responsible for the financial management of the Empire. We are curious what he has done about this recently and what he is going to do about it. Finally, on this point, I would like to ask which adjustments to the tax system are and are not possible. In fact, the Court of Auditors gives the impression that major changes are not possible or risky. The Secretary of State has indicated that there are some possibilities. So I'd like to get more clarity on that. In a more general sense, the Court of Auditors notes that there are EUR 601 million in budget overruns in the final laws that should have been reported earlier. Of course, that's way too much. After a few years of improvements at this point, there is now a reverse movement. The Minister of Finance has promised that he will, in line with recent years, call on the ministries to keep the management of these expenditure obligations in order. As far as we are concerned, that is a little thin, because this point simply affects the budget law of the House of Representatives. For MPs it is sometimes a hell of a search to find a few million for their ideas and here about 600 million are just being deployed. What are the causes of this high amount in the past year? And how does the Minister intend to turn the tide so that next year we do not have to adopt so much money through final laws? As far as we are concerned, accountability is not only about whether the tax money has been spent according to the rules, but also about whether the desired results are being achieved. The General Court notes that the perception of the impact of the policy is not sufficiently present in all cases. The VVD wants to know how he's gonna improve this. In his response to the findings of the General Court of Auditors, he says he will continue to discuss this with the House of Representatives and the General Court of Auditors. As far as the VVD is concerned, that should be a bit more proactive. So how is the Minister going to deal with this in concrete terms? As far as we are concerned, policy reviews are an important tool for the House of Representatives to assess the effectiveness of the policy. It is striking that a lot of policy reviews were delayed in 2015; in terms of the VVD too much. What are the causes of this? The VVD is committed to regular and timely review of the policy. How much policy has not been vetted over the past four years and how much has not been vetted over the past seven years? That is the minimum standard we have agreed on. Then I'll come to the guarantees. The government's policy on guarantees is now 'no, unless', and that is more than right, because guarantees are not without risk. However, the overall risk for the public authorities over the guarantees provided has increased in absolute terms to over EUR 198 billion in 2015. How is that possible? I thought the idea was to reduce the guarantees. It was also agreed earlier that all guarantee schemes would be reviewed once more. What is the state of play? What's that gotten you so far? What is the Minister going to do in this context in the near future? Hardworking Dutch people, entrepreneurs and companies are willing to contribute to a better Netherlands, but they expect the tax money to be well spent. Are citizens and businesses getting value for money? Accountability day is therefore important for the VVD, because we will check whether the tax money generated by all citizens and businesses is well spent. That's why the VVD attaches importance to fixed, important moments such as Prince's Day and Accountability Day. This seems to be affected by the new Compatibility Act. We are now saying that we believe that at least these moments should not disappear. Our conclusion is that much has been achieved, but that there is really still a lot to be done. So as far as we're concerned, get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mrs De Vries makes it look like things are going so well in the Netherlands. The people in the country just don't notice it at all yet. I would like to know from Mrs De Vries how the VVD is looking at the PVV's plan to use precisely the interest rate counter that this finance minister is getting kicked into by the low ECB interest rate for the low interest rate group. Those are the pensioners. What does Mrs De Vries think of this proposal? Isn't that at least reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u21	I think it's very clear that the elderly are having a hard time. This has been the case in recent years. Other groups also suffered from all the measures taken and from the economic crisis. Last year measures were taken aimed at the elderly, for example to restore purchasing power. This happens every year and will happen again in August of this year. At that time, we need to look at the relations between the various groups and, if necessary, take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u22	I am glad that Mrs De Vries recognizes that the elderly are having a hard time and that pensioners are being caught. However, I do not hear her say anything about this in her speech; she simply puts it aside. The fact is that older people have been declining in purchasing power for eight years. Some elderly people have already had to turn in hundreds and sometimes thousands of euros over the last ten years. And now there is an interest rate counter of 1 billion dollars that Mrs De Vries has also been able to see, which means that the deficit is lower than expected. Is it not more than normal to say that we are giving back to the elderly the billion that we get free of charge thanks to the ECB's policy? Directly €300 extra AOW for all pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u23	I think I made it clear that many Dutch people had a hard time during the economic crisis; I also support the older people in the Netherlands. By using the windfall, Mr Van Dijck increases the budget deficit. He speaks precious words about the elderly, but I also want to look at the future generations, the children and the grandchildren of those elderly. In fact, Mr Van Dijck poses an additional problem. Again, I have already said that in August we can see what these famous purchasing power cards look like. It will also examine what measures may be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mrs De Vries spoke at the beginning of her speech on the issue of refugees; she was pleased to see that numbers were falling again. This seems to be a bit financially motivated, because we will have to spend less money on it and we will be able to go back to the order of the day. The refugees who are here, we offer to a limited extent facilities. We ask for language management at the end of primary school. Does Mrs De Vries agree that in this way we facilitate a very large group of people in the Netherlands for an impossible position on the labour market? There is no Dutchman who finds a job with a language mastery at primary school level. Does she agree that it is penny wise, pound foolish to deal with the integration and training of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u25	Language and education are important for integration. They are, of course, minimum requirements. Moreover, not everyone can reach the highest level. The point is that you can function in this society and get to work. I think that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u26	The language level that we are asking for is so low, namely, at the end of primary school, that we know that this means that people do not have a chance on the labour market. Surely it cannot leave the VVD untouched that we are so badly accommodating a large group of people in our country that they do not have a chance on the labour market? The refugee shelter costs a lot of money and my group is happy to do so, but does Mrs De Vries agree that if you really want people to come to prison and contribute to our society, we must invest heavily, not only in language but also in training, vocational training and refugee training?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u27	I believe that this is the difference between GroenLinks and the VVD. GroenLinks believes that the government should solve every individual's problem. In my opinion, it is also a responsibility of those involved to see how they can move forward. This is offered as a minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u28	That is strange, because no matter how you turn it or turn it around when you see life-size arrivals that you offer a large group of people in our country no more than a chance of a benefit, it should appeal to the VVD that we give them a chance at a job. I am very surprised at this attitude. Apparently the VVD does not feel responsible; it leaves it to the individual. In this way, we continue to pay benefits and we do not give people the chance to get to work here. They shall not be accompanied therein. I find that astonishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u29	This is a bit weird, because there are other ways of educating people and taking training. I think you are making a bit of a caricature of it now, and I do not think that the subject is very appropriate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u30	In the contribution of the VVD I did not hear a word about 50-plussers, let alone the plight of pensioners. Was it a deliberate choice not to talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u31	I've been talking about Dutch people who have had a hard time. All Dutch people have had a hard time in the economic crisis, especially the elderly. However, there are many more groups that have been struggling in the economic crisis. If you're going to be unemployed, you're going to have a very complicated situation anyway. In my view, the policy should be aimed at seeing how we can get more people to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u32	When the economy went bad, this cabinet, as well as the VVD, the elderly and pensioners knew very well how to cover up these problems. When things got better, things went to the workers alone. I think that's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u33	Now you take a walk with reality. Millions were spent last year, including the recovery of purchasing power for the elderly. I find the image you're sketching a little unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u34	I will tell you the figures in my contribution later. The purchasing power of pensioners has fallen significantly behind those of workers. So I think you're taking a walk with the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u35	I have a question for Mrs De Vries about the Ministry of V and J, which has been the VVD's flagship since 2010. We must now all note that it is too large and too complex. The internal checks-and-balances are out of order. We have seen all the examples in recent months. The Court of Auditors says that it is not in control and that it cannot be adjusted. D66 has said before that it wants the police to return to the Ministry of the Interior and that there will be a smaller Ministry of Justice. Last Saturday, the group chairman of the VVD said in De Telegraaf that it is a real option to split up and reduce V and J. That's a bright spot. In the First Chamber, a motion was adopted by Mr De Graaf van D66 on the elaboration of a split-up of V and J, in which the police go back to Home Affairs. Given all these facts, does the VVD agree with D66 that we should ask the Cabinet to come up with a plan before 1 January for a way to divide V and J in the next cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u36	The only option I think is for the police to be separated from D66. The group chairman of the VVD said in the interview that there are problems with V and J. I just outlined that one, too. He has also said that the scale can play a role in this and that you must want to look at it. However, there are also advantages in bringing the police to this ministry. You need to take a good look at what might be a solution to the problem. I do have some doubts about coming up with a plan to do that next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u37	I say this precisely because you do not have to do this from today to tomorrow or today during this debate. You need to think this through. That is why I am going to ask the cabinet to come forward with such a plan before 1 January, in other words before the next elections, so that it can play a role in the debates. If I hear Mrs De Vries correctly, I am very positive today. That's a correct conclusion, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u38	As I said, I question a plan for 1 January. I do think you should think about what it takes to solve the problems at V and J. I am also curious about the reaction of the cabinet to this point in your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u39	I am very constructive today: 1 February, is that a good solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u40	I don't think we should be doing cow business with that kind of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u41	I have a question about the second parade of the VVD, namely Defence. We have been building up together in recent years to try to make an extra budget for that. That's what happened. We're grateful for that. The Court of Auditors, as we know, has made it very clear once again that there is a considerable shortage of money, especially if we want to comply with the NATO agreements, because it is about billions. Does Mrs De Vries agree with this knowledge that extra money should be added in this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u42	In fact, we raised together for more money to the Defense Department. This has also been achieved on a number of points. However, the Court also points out that money is not always the solution. It also has to do with the organisation of the business. As I have just pointed out, we find security in its breadth, i.e. defence, security and justice, important issues. This isn't the time to make any decisions about that. That needs to be looked at towards Princess' Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u43	But then the hole is big. I can already hear the Minister of Finance souffle that the Court of Auditors is not saying what I said. No, but I add up different things. NATO does say so, and that is why we simply have the agreement to comply with the 2% standard. We are talking about 2% of 670 billion, that is 13.4 billion. That's five billion more than we have now. Shouldn't this cabinet finally take a big step?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u44	There was no need to souffle, because I read the Court report myself. It does say that it is not just the solution, but it is important that there is enough money. I also said that we cannot get off the floor in the attic at once, because we also have to consider other priorities, as well as defence, for example, security at the Ministry of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u45	What the Court of Auditors has written down is that there are quite a few shortcomings in the Ministry of Security and Justice. We are all looking for a good solution in the longer term. I agree with Mr Koolmees' plea to make that ministry a bit more manageable, but we also need to do something now. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that we should have a more rigorous monitor of the money that is in the national police, the criminal justice chain and the courts, as we have done in the F-35, for example? Does she share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u46	I think that would mean turning it into a big project. There are advantages to a large project, but also disadvantages, because there are a lot of time and energy in reports. I believe that we should be given sufficient information to monitor these developments. Measures were launched at the Ministry at the end of 2015. I would prefer to be able to follow that closely in the documents we always get from the Ministry, so there is sufficient information in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u47	I'm not looking for a big project either, because I can see that there are hooks and eyes attached to it. I can see that there have been shortcomings in Security and Justice for a number of years in a row. It's a big and important ministry. It's also about our rule of law. I would therefore like, perhaps with the General Court, a better check to be made, a better understanding of where exactly the pain points are and what we may need to change in order to make things better there. So I'm not saying it's supposed to be a big project. I am concerned that we are looking for a way to get a better grip on the situation in the area of security and justice. The VVD can't argue with that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u48	Grip and control are always good as far as I'm concerned. Measures have been put in place. The General Court has indicated that these are good measures to gain more control and control over the Ministry. I think we should be able to follow them in a good way. I do not know what other matters the Christian Union is looking for. Anyway, maybe there are suggestions for that. We'll have to weigh it down. I trust that we will receive the good information and that we will be able to follow the changes that have been and are being made and we will also receive sufficient information from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u49	I will also draw attention to it in my own term. Perhaps the rulers themselves can also shed their light on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr. Chairman. We may be having the most important debate of the year. The government is the last missionary to account for its policies. The Court of Auditors checks this and makes great use of the opinion of the Court of Auditors. I will speak on behalf of the CDA Group on the general picture and then deal specifically with the three major problems in three core departments. Finally, I would like to make a number of separate points. It is a good thing that the budget deficit is falling thanks to economic growth and a compliment, despite a significant reduction in the natural gas revenues that the government has also had to absorb. For the first time in a long time, the Netherlands is in a situation where there is no acute budgetary problem and emergency measures need to be taken. Partly thanks to the sale of ABN AMRO, the debt has even fallen slightly. That could go on with ASR next year. The economy is attracting, but rather the CDA has advocated caution. There are great uncertainties: terrorism, refugees, a Brexit and the economic situation in China and Brazil. Moreover, unemployment is still too high with 614,000 unemployed, 6.9% of the labour force. That was 3.7% in 2008. The post-crisis recovery in employment is considerably less rapid than everyone hoped. That is also not surprising because at the beginning of this cabinet period, the cabinet deliberately opted for fewer jobs with the leveling party of Spekman. That is one of the reasons why we still have too high unemployment. Yeah, there were job plans coming up from Asscher. Only, the government's policy letter says that the government is working to reduce unemployment and the only thing it mentions in the fight against unemployment is the tax cut, while the job plans, which have been spent a great deal of money, are not even mentioned. Is this the final confession of this cabinet that these job plans did not work? The good news is that the financial management of the Empire has been lawful. That's up to 100%. A number of ministries are doing just fine. Education, Culture and Science have eliminated all its shortcomings, which is worth a compliment. This does not mean that we agree with the whole policy of OCW. I would remind you of our vote against the loan system, but its implementation has gone well. That is what we are seeing together today.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u51	I just heard Mr Omtzigt say something about leveling or, what I prefer to call, sharing honestly. There are a lot of groups in society that have suffered from the crisis and have had it for their choosing. What the hell is the CDA? What else was the cabinet supposed to do? Should the lower incomes have turned in more? Could there have been less demand for higher incomes? Shouldn't the mortgage interest relief have been limited? What exactly is the CDA's view? What would you have done to the right?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u52	A number of things; read our counter-budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u53	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u54	Very good. Then Mr Nijboer could have seen that we had previously cut subsidies for electric and semi-electric cars, for example. These economical cars have been spent a total of 6 billion. We would have spent that on lower excise duties, which Mr Nijboer could have spent differently. We have constantly warned of the problems with the pgbs. They've resulted in an excess of 400 million. No cuts. The implementation costs of the SVB were twice as high. The same disaster scenario is now threatening the Ministry of Security and Justice. If the opposition's plans had been implemented and especially where the entire opposition warned, it would have gone a bit better with this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u55	I would like to thank Mr Omtzigt for the answer to the question he did not ask, namely what was in his counter-budget. I've read it. However, I am referring to his comment just now on fair sharing. He felt that the cabinet had shared too fairly and that there should have been more demand for low incomes and less of the highest incomes, as this would have resulted in more employment. I would like to ask Mr Omtzig what measures they were. It was not the reduction in excise duty, which everyone pays, or a technical environmental measure that could have been better. Mr Omtzigt wants to share more unfairly. What would he have wanted?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u56	A technical environmental measure is not the same as 6 billion in subsidies for clean cars which turn out not to be clean afterwards. I'm trying to separate the main and side business here. That leveling party I was talking about meant higher marginal rates for the middle class and discouragement of labour and therefore in the models of the CPB, which Mr Nijboer praises so much, a slightly higher unemployment than there otherwise would have been. If it had not been for that leveling party, unemployment would have been lower and there would have been income effects. We have constantly put forward counter-proposals in our counter-budget. Mr Nijboer can read that too. They have to do with a flat tax, with a mortgage interest rate that was deductible at the uniform rate of a flat tax. They are all just in it and Mr Nijboer could have just seen it. In some cases, they would have worked out just fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u57	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u58	I therefore understand that the CDA of the highest incomes, of which a higher contribution has indeed been requested, would not have done so. The CDA would like to reverse that and get it at lower incomes. Then it's clear what the CDA stands for. This is quite different from what the cabinet has chosen to do and share fairly in crises, which the PvdA stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u59	Mr Nijboer could have seen in the counter-proposals that the CDA's reduction of the burden in the last year was more significant in the case of middle income, families with children, and even more so in the case of the amendment that we tabled with the Christian Union and the SGP, the sole earners. We have been very clear on this. The PvdA has made radically different choices for partners, when, for example, one of the partners was ill. Then the PvdA says that this is not bad at all and that they may earn even less than a single person with the same income. That's inimitable from the Labour Party. I would like to add my voice to what Mr Merkies said about the 600 million extra expenditure, particularly the 400 million on defence, in the final laws. I'll be right back on DOD. There is also a limitation in control. Money has been properly spent on a number of issues, but we still cannot check it properly because the annual accounts are not there. I am thinking of the ggz, the municipalities and a lot of parties in the care field, for which the healthcare fund has not yet drawn up its final annual accounts in recent years. Formally, money has been lawfully spent at the time when the government transfers the Wmo funds to the municipalities or the funds reach the hospitals, but the annual accounts are not yet available. The ggz is a very pressing example of that. Does the government have a plan to ensure that by 1 January next year we have resolved the problems of the late financial statements and their failure to establish them? I would like to hear a concrete proposal from the Minister for Finance. I come to the three core departments on which the Court of Auditors has expressed its greatest concern. There are serious shortcomings in the Tax Office, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Security and Justice. That's three red cards, and that's unacceptable. Two years ago, just after the beginning of this cabinet period, there were still zero. So they were created during this cabinet period. The question of this debate is whether the Prime Minister leaves the solution to these problems to his rulers or whether he also feels responsible for the defence of our country, for the rule of law and for correct tax collection. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I'll start with the Department of Security and Justice. The Ministry of Security and Justice, which sometimes seems to still function as a party office or at least as the publicity department of the VVD, writes in its annual report: "At the same time, important steps were taken to strengthen the rule of law in 2015. [...] The improved cooperation between the partners in the criminal justice chain is paying off: the chain as a whole is performing faster and better." This is the chain of the police that detects criminal offences, the prosecution that detects them, the courts, and then the prisons. What do the individual partners write? Chief of Staff Erik Akerboom: "I wonder if the police can continue to do what they do without extra money." The Trade to Truth report, which is about tracking: "In general, there is a lack of finance and innovative capacity to support detection processes." The public prosecutor's annual report published today: "The quality and performance of the public prosecutor are under heavy pressure." The Court of Auditors is critical of the national police, cannot determine whether the cuts have had an effect on the prison system and cannot determine anything about the Reinforcement performance criminal justice chain programme. There are therefore two departments of security and justice: one reality of the minister and the ministry and one reality shared by the General Court, the opposition in the Lower House, the Public Prosecutor, the police, the judges and the prison system. Does the government share the view that the sentence I have quoted in the annual report of the Ministry of Security and Justice is not correct? Does that also mean that this sentence should simply be rewritten? Then the IRS. It is remarkable that the heavy ones are not maintained. This is particularly true of the conclusion of the Court of Auditors that the core of democracy is affected because changes in tax legislation cannot be implemented or at great risk. When it comes to the Tax Office, the Chamber should be able to make decisions. We get the most fantastic half-yearly reports every year, but the real story, including all the exclamation points and alarm calls, we need to hear from the General Court. It is shocking to see that almost every tax reform, including a reform of surcharges, is almost impossible or not feasible by many of you here. I asked the Secretary of State at the reorganisation plans whether they could be combined with the tax revision. He said yes at the time. The urgency of the supplement system has not diminished. How do we proceed with this now? Can we receive from the government a list of reforms that are possible in the next cabinet formation? How are we all going to make a plan here? Do we all get to hear "niet, it can't"? In a clause it says that we can only change one VAT rate once over the next seven years. Now you don't want to do that every year, but the fact that you can't do it at all because of non-working computers is the other side of the story. I have a specific question about the huge IT deficiencies. The General Court writes that the renewal of the system of turnover taxes was no longer in operation in 2011 and in 2015 the replacement of the system would have been permanently cancelled in 2015 after it had previously been shut down. When has that ever been communicated to the Chamber with a clear letter of inquiry? What did the new system, which has never been put into operation, actually cost? What impact does this have on the Tax Administration? Defense is the third problem. A word of appreciation for the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Finance, who at least admit that there are problems. In this respect, they are already one step further than the Minister of Security and Justice. If you do not recognise that there are problems in your annual report, then of course the solution to these problems will be much more difficult or the problems will simply not be solved. It is really irresponsible that for the first time Defence and therefore the Netherlands cannot meet the objective of defending the Dutch territory. That is the constitutional task, in accordance with Article 97 of that law: 'For the defence and protection of the interests of the Kingdom, as well as for the maintenance and promotion of the international legal order, there is a military force'. And then it says in the annual report that the armed forces cannot defend their own territory. The operational readiness of the units is only 59%, while two years ago it was far above 70%. We had to read this in the Court of Auditors' report, because we could not find these figures in the Defence Annual Report. Let me give you an example from the letter of September from the Minister of Defence. We have 67 F-16s. 11 of them should be ready. The objective was to have six ready as of 1 January 2016. We have 18 NH90 helicopters. According to Defense's own weak targets, two of them had to be ready. On 1 January 2016 it was one. We have two mid-range air defense games. According to the government "the exchange of data with the NATO air defence system with the current radio system is not possible." So they're not operational, like the Patriots, who need to be checked out. We therefore have no effective air defence because we cannot exchange data with our NATO partners. A mechanized battalion had no vehicles and had to train on foot. In the rest of the world, people are laughing their asses off, but it's to be ashamed of. I can go on for a while, but I'm gonna ask you a couple of key questions. Is our country adequately protected from external threats? How does the Prime Minister feel about this? Was he shocked or did he know this? Can the government state, by section, what is the state of readiness at the moment, as indicated in the September letter? Why wasn't it in the annual report? Since this is so bad, I would ask the government to report on its readiness to do so on a quarterly basis, on 1 July, 1 October, 1 January and 1 April. If that is not possible, I can always ask Parliamentary questions about it, but I assume that, if it is wrong on such an important part, we do not have to make a major project to get these essential questions answered. I come to a number of loose topics. The cost of asylum is in billions. The Court of Auditors indicates that it is difficult to measure. There's not one number to paste. The long-term implications for care and education after the first year of care have not yet been identified. It is unclear exactly what is happening with the asylum budget reserve. What's going to be done with that half a billion dollars? How can we as a Chamber gain insight into and control expenditure? I would like a response, including a proposal on how this can develop in the coming year. This is an uncertain item, much more uncertain than any other item in the budget. The CDA Group fully understands this, but we do need to be clear about what is happening there. We have the same question about the reserve for renewable energy. This now amounts to more than one billion, brought up by the storage that Dutch people pay on their energy bill. Is this money also legally spent on renewable energy? Can the Minister guarantee that? At the point of the MH17 much effort has been made by the government, but especially by the team that is constantly working on it. Many treaties have been renewed and many international consultations are taking place. What did the Prime Minister himself do in 2015 to bring his three objectives closer? When can we expect what results? Already in the autumn of 2014 the Chamber was promised to come up with a prosecution strategy. How can we, once a suspect is in the picture, bring that suspect to a court of law? We would hear that in November 2014, but that is still unknown. When are we going to get a ruling on this? Almost 300 people have been killed with a rocket in an area where two superpowers are conducting a proxy war. There must be sufficient evidence available at a number of offices in Washington and Moscow. The decentralisations were moving too fast. The CDA warned: what are we going to do about municipalities and hospitals that do not get an approval statement due to uncertainties in the Wmo? The aforementioned ggz is a mega problem due to the risk settlement. When are we going to get a grip on these money flows? How is it that the personnel costs in the VWS ministry and in the ZBOs are tens of percent higher than budgeted? Prime Minister Rutte promised a smaller government, but VWS spent 30% more on staff and equipment than budgeted for the second year in a row in the core department and the ZBOs around it. The Minister of Finance would have expected it: I will end with excise duties. The excise duties on diesel and LPG again have a setback after that increase of 74 million. Boy, what a surprise! It is always said that there is less fuel, because cars are becoming more economical. However, excise duties on petrol, for which this additional increase did not apply, have a windfall of 153 million. Unfortunately, the border effects are very real and this increase in excise duty has cost money. What about the follow-up to the ARK's recommendation to report annually on the impact of the policy on fuel-efficient cars? The ARK has been critical for two years, I have just said it to Mr Nijboer, and one of the recommendations was to look at how much each subsidy rule has cost this year and what its revenues are for the environment and for the reduction of CO emissions. We could not find them in the annual financial report. Is the government prepared to send it to the Chamber so that we can find out how much money we have actually subsidised the Mitsubishi Outlander?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u60	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this debate, I would like to look back on the coalition agreement we concluded in 2012. This is the last time we talk about accountability with missionary cabinet. Looking back to 2012, you can see that the economy was basically ruined at the time: economic contraction year by year, purchasing power declines of many percentage points, rising unemployment and declining employment. The welfare state was in need of extensive maintenance. The PvdA is strongly in favour of a well-functioning welfare state, so that everyone can make a living, develop their talents in education, be taken care of once and get good care. The welfare state must move along with the changes over time. What does it mean, for example, to ensure that people get older? Another example is that the houses should be able to continue to be financed and should remain available to everyone. There's got to be enough rentals, and that's gonna take adjustments. That was all for years, for decades. Another example is the working society, because in many more households both partners work. This requires adjustments and more investment in childcare and social security. The labour market must also change: more security for flex workers. How has it been done in the last three years? If you look at what happened to all those measures in the coalition agreement, you will see that they were all implemented at that time. They have been transposed into legislation and brought to fruition. That great maintenance has required a lot of pain and trouble from the Dutch and the Dutch entrepreneurs. There hasn't been a group that hasn't noticed. If you compare the current figures with those from 2012, you can see that there are still enough problems in society. For example, unemployment is still far too high. At the same time, you can also see that things are going better now, and it was necessary to take these measures. Unemployment is falling rather than rising. Employment is increasing again rather than decreasing. Last year, for the first time in history, the point of 10 million jobs in the Netherlands was crossed. You can also see that other areas, such as the buying market, are stabilizing, and that is good, because that was necessary. It's a good basis to build on. What you also see is that companies' profits have increased enormously, year by year. Unlike SMEs, profits have increased enormously, especially in large companies. It's been going on for years. It is not for nothing, therefore, that the President of the Netherlands Bank, a professional sign of conservative character, points out that employees have been given too little and that there is room for wage increases. I have already made that plea in the Financial Reviews and I would like to support it here on behalf of the PvdA. In fact, if you look at the last ten or twenty years, at the economic growth that has been there for many years and at what is going on in companies and what is going on in employees, it is growing apart. It grows out of the lead. The PvdA believes that anyone who has participated in economic recovery and economic growth, anyone who has been elected in recent years and who has had a zero line, can benefit from it. Last year, the PvdA Group asked the cabinet to make extra money available to public sector nurses, military, teaching staff, so that wage increases could finally be made possible again. That's what happened. The tax system also made 5 billion available last year for low and middle-income workers. That's what happened. The market sector is now on the move and the PvdA asks the government to work together with the social partners, employers and employees, to achieve higher wages there too, so that they too benefit from the economic recovery. We have a good tradition in that. There have been agreements made in the social agreement. In the past, we had the Wassenaar Accord. These were often difficult measures that had to be taken, but now we can also agree on the economic recovery and on whom the return and what we earn by ourselves happens. As far as the PvdA is concerned, it should also be for employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u61	Mr Nijboer says: things are not going so fast, but unemployment is falling. Youth unemployment was 10.8% in March 2015 and now it is 11.2%. It's not going down, it's going up! There was a low point, a high point, a lowest point, in March 2015; not now. If I confront Mr Nijboer and find that the cabinet has not yet been able to do anything about the scandalously high percentage of youth unemployed, would it not be desirable, if we were to make agreements in Wassenaar or anywhere else, to deal with employment and youth unemployment rather than more purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u62	I am very much in favour of more jobs and last year the tax system measure, which is 5 billion, was fully beneficial to lower and middle-income workers. The money was owed to employers who employ low-income people, especially those who earn around 110% or 120% of the minimum wage, to create jobs for them. Mr Grashoff refers to youth unemployment. My even greater concern is unemployment among the elderly. If you're 55+ and you're fired, get another job. When you see the figures, I find that really worrying. I also ask the cabinet what it has done about it. The Court of Auditors has carried out a full investigation into this. What else does the cabinet intend to do about it? That's the biggest concern. I have also said in my own contribution: unemployment is falling, the figures are going down, you can highlight a group, but not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u63	My next interruption would be about unemployment among the elderly and long-term unemployment. That is extremely bad and the Netherlands is very low in the European ranking with regard to long-term unemployment. We're bad at that. I hear Mr Nijboer making a plea for more purchasing power. That's what I hear him do. I do not hear him making a plea here for very good, clear, targeted measures for more jobs. I do not hear him demanding that the cabinet really comes up with a quantitative objective and that it makes tough agreements with employers. I don't hear him asking that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u64	I would not call this an "attack," but a critical note from GroenLinks about corporate profits that are growing enormously. Even the President of the Nederlandsche Bank says: let them also attack employees, which is also good for SMEs, because that can then sell more, which in turn creates more jobs. It seems that this call is not supported, which is intended to create jobs and jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u65	Of course we agree on the use of these profits. Of course! It's what you spend it on and where you prioritize. I note that the PvdA prioritises purchasing power and not jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u66	The logic of GroenLinks completely escapes me. You can ask each SME what holding the purchasing power means for its sales and for the number of people he employs. If GroenLinks doesn't share that analysis, we've grown very far apart. It's real to do with employment. It is not just about sharing in company profits but also about boosting employment. That's what it's all about. You can also see that employment is now improving; the limit of 10 million was passed last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u67	I also heard the plea of the Labour Party this morning and I am pleased with it. It is the workers who contributed with all of them when things went badly and now that things are getting better, they should also benefit. However, I do not hear you say whether the same applies to 65-plussers, who have also contributed to the resolution of the economic crisis, and relatively more to the solution of the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u68	I very much agree with Mr Krol that older people have also had a hard time in recent years. I would like to point out the problems of pension funds. They are not subject to public service obligations, but they affect the elderly. At that time, the cabinet allocated EUR 900 million to prevent them from falling through the zero line. The current figures show a big minus for the elderly and a big plus for the employed. That cannot be the outcome, it is not balanced. In August, therefore, we expect proposals from the cabinet to accommodate older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u69	I am very happy with the support of the Labour Party. Let us not forget that all the measures taken so far are one-off. These older people, too, deserve structural improvement. I also hope to find the Labour Party by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u70	Of course. You should always check whether the effect is one-off or not. If purchasing power is lost once, it must be compensated. However, it is often much better to regulate it structurally. It is usually a mix, as Mr Krol has seen in recent years. That's with everything in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u71	In fact, I do not even agree with my colleague from GroenLinks that the PvdA chooses purchasing power and not jobs. The PvdA does not opt for purchasing power and therefore does not choose for jobs, especially in the case of those low incomes. Of course, that 5 billion did not just go to low incomes; it did go to high incomes. In itself, I understand the appeal to employers. Isn't it a bit gratuitous, though? In fact, it says that we have not been able to do anything for this purchasing power and now we hope that the employers will do it. What if the employers don't? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u72	This doesn't make any sense, does it? We come from a situation of -2% purchasing power in 2012. This year's purchasing power is 2%, partly because of 5 billion for lower and middle incomes, partly because of government policy. Teachers' salaries have increased, as have civil servants' and military' salaries, partly due to cabinet policy. That's direct purchasing power. The cabinet works well with social partners. I call on the Cabinet to also make agreements in good times, if things get better, on the fair distribution of profits made by companies. That's what I'm doing here. The cabinet has done so in several areas before, including in the social agreement. I'll make that call here.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mr Nijboer always tries to attract everything that goes well, worldwide. We are now benefiting somewhat from the international economy, which has not happened for a very long time thanks to this policy. Above all, he should not say: we have given extra purchasing power to civil servants. Officials have been on the zero line for years and then Mr Nijboer is going to say: now we are not putting them on the zero line and giving them extra money. That's a reversal of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u74	Everyone has been asked to make a significant contribution in recent years, from everyone, including people in education and civil servants. Mr Merkies is right about that. The same applies to the elderly. That was true for all groups. However, the trend is reversed and the PvdA wants everyone to benefit. I really do not understand what Mr Merkies sees in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u75	Mr Krol has already asked about the elderly. We know that benefit-holders often get along with it. They are often the worst, at the bottom, when it comes to purchasing power. Is that gonna change now? I have not heard Mr Nijboer about this. Is he gonna be tough on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u76	In the Netherlands, benefits are rightly linked to wages. Higher pay automatically leads to higher benefits and also higher AOW benefits. We are in favour of this. It is unspeakable to let go of that link, so they will also benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u77	I welcome Mr Nijboer's progressive understanding that purchasing power is good for the economy. You can achieve purchasing power in different ways. The PvdA now very easily puts the ball with the employers: wages must be raised and we all go round the table again to make sure of that. You could also achieve it with tax cuts. I know that word "tax reduction" does not appear in the PvdA dictionary; they do not know that. But of course the VAT increase has not helped to get the economy back on track. If the PvdA wants to do something about wages, it must first reduce taxes and thus increase purchasing power. This reduces unemployment. And if unemployment goes down, more pressure on wages will come of its own accord. Mr Nijboer, as an economist, agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u78	This year, 5 billion has been spent on reducing the burden on jobs, precisely in order to boost employment and purchasing power. The PVV voted against it, but I now understand that the PVV would have liked to vote in favour of it. It's been realized. 5 billion isn't little. It's a big amount and it also has big effects. Mr Merkies is right that the economic recovery is also due to other things. It is also due to exports, international developments and things that people themselves undertake, but public policy has supported this, especially the reduction of the burden on lower and middle incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u79	Then let me make the bridge to the pensioners right away. Yesterday, we launched our proposal to pass on the windfall for the 1 billion national cash to pensioners who suffer from low interest rates, while the state cash benefits from low interest rates. Doesn't Mr Nijboer agree that we should not wait until next year, but that we should now meet those pensioners on the spot today? Those pensioners have been the child of the account for ten years, the PvdA's account.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u80	I have not found the billion that Mr Van Dijk has so luminously found in the budget. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he still has that left. I agree that older people deserve special attention. If you now see next year's purchasing power figures for older people compared to others, then the picture is not balanced. The PvdA Group expects proposals from the Cabinet to improve this and to accommodate older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u81	That billion is in the interest charges. Last year, this finance minister paid 1 billion less in interest charges than the previous year, thanks to a halving of interest rates and the low interest rates of the ECB. That 1 billion has been thrown into the lap of this finance minister. He dances on the table because of a windfall which reduces the deficit by 1 billion, but the pensioners are the disabled. They receive lower pensions that are not indexed. It is only reasonable to pass on this minister's party through relief for pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u82	I have just indicated, also in the direction of Mr Krol, that the purchasing power picture for the elderly must be compensated for next year. The coverage and proposals of the PVV are usually accompanied by a number of things. I wasn't surprised that the proposal lasted 24 hours. The last time the PVV said something about the AOW, it was off the table within a day. It was unspeakable back then, too. I come to the second main theme of the coalition agreement: fair sharing. We were just talking about that. The cabinet has done so, on the one hand by normalizing behaviour and rewards in the public sector, with the Law standards top incomes. There are no more Maserati corporate directors and no more caretakers going home with a few tons. That is in the past, including in the financial sector. We have had extensive debates on this and, together with the SP, we have produced stricter legislation. We know the strictest bonus legislation in Europe. But the same applies on the other hand to the general income picture. It's not gonna happen on its own. As Mr Omtzigt said, the marginal rates are too high for him and the higher incomes are caught too much. It takes policies to get a balanced and fair income picture every year. We've been able to do that in the last few years. That does not alter the fact that a lot of people have felt the pain at economic contraction. The shortage of the rent allowance is also a recurring problem. According to the PvdA group, there is a problem with the estimate. If you're wrong about so many hundreds of millions every year, I wonder how. Is that estimate being adjusted? Recipients of rent payments should not suffer from poor estimates here in The Hague. The third point is sound public finances. There is nothing social about high government deficits at all. We came from a time when public debt had risen from 45% to 75% in a few years; there was even an increase to 90%. If you let that happen in an ageing society, it's gonna go wrong. Public finances will then disappear, but worse still, you will not be able to pay for social security in the future. The cabinet managed to manage the government budget neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u83	Mr Nijboer pointed the finger at a point that has been going on for a long time, the rent allowance. According to him, the estimates aren't right and he asked when they're gonna be adjusted. But, of course, it's not just the estimates. If you want to keep the rent bonus up, you have to add money if the estimates are higher. Does the PvdA now say that, if the estimates are higher, we need more money to tackle the problem of the rent payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u84	This problem has been going on for a long time; I've brought it up before. Mr Blok's budget actually has only one budget line, the rent supplement. If it doesn't work out, he'll have to cut right into it. The rent allowance is agreed to be involved in the decision on purchasing power in August. That's different than usual, because departments normally just have to stop their pants. The PvdA Group has compensated these setbacks year after year, also once together with the Christian Union. This is on the table again in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u85	But then it is not just a question of estimates. If the estimates show that more people are using the rent bonus, then you can do something about the estimates, but you can't solve the problem. Is it just a technical problem or should we just keep up with the rent allowance?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u86	Both. Moreover, a technical problem can lead to real problems. We now have a setback in the rent payment involved in purchasing power decision-making, as agreed during the Financial Reviews or last year's Accountability debate, which helps to get the estimates straight. Then we'll stop us from getting the same thing next year. I therefore plead in favour of both.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u87	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u88	I come to the 2015 policy. The Court congratulated the government on its legality. The Netherlands is a model. Furthermore, the Court congratulated the government on the number of deficiencies, which has fallen enormously, particularly in the case of OCW. We agree with that. At the same time, there are problems with the core tasks of the government: defence, security and tax collection. These are the traditional tasks of the government, which they must perform well. With regard to security, justice and defence, I agree with the questions raised by the previous speakers. What did the cabinet do in 2015? Does the cabinet itself consider this sufficient, given the serious shortcomings that the General Court is still finding? What is the government going to do to remedy these serious shortcomings and what timetable does this include? With regard to the Tax Administration, the PvdA Group understands that years of delayed ICT maintenance have not been resolved in one or two years or even in three years. This will remain a problem, but the Tax Administration has wider problems. The objectives that would be achieved this year have not been met either. When these objectives were formulated, they already knew about these ICT problems. Let me give you an example: 570 million would be raised through the additional investment in tax inspectors, which has become 430 million. That's a big difference in times of tax avoidance. A second example is that, of course, it also checks whether SMEs pay their taxes properly. Between 36,000 and 38,000 SMEs/entrepreneurs would be monitored and more than 25,000 have been audited. That's 10,000 less; that's a third less. How is that possible? Will these objectives be met this year? And what did this actually cost in return? The average yield of an SME audit was €31,000. If you multiply that by 10,000 for convenience, it looks like 300 million euros have been raised less than you could have done. Is this calculation correct and what is the cabinet going to do about this? The Court's report dealt with the substance of the policy. Mr Merkies already mentioned the 30% scheme for people coming from abroad to work here. The question is whether the substance of the scheme is sufficiently substantiated. Are these costs really 30% of the salary year by year? After all, it is a question of compensating foreigners who are partly resident in the Netherlands for the costs they incur, but do they really incur such terribly high costs? Don't we have some really good public services? Our schools and hospitals aren't that expensive, are they? Do we have to subsidise all this and do we not have to push out Dutch labour? I have just had a discussion with Mr Grafhoff on unemployment in the Netherlands. Is there really any added jobs? The PvdA Group is critical of this arrangement and asks the Cabinet for a more substantive response than the policy response we have received, which amounts to 'we do want to look at it'. The guarantees and the guarantees are much better in sight. The PvdA Group believes that this has been done well. We have had debates on this before. There are enormous risks, partly due to the euro crisis, but also to the financial sector. Those risks have been made more insightful. On one point, the PvdA Group would like more clarity on the risks to the public budget. This concerns the ECB's policy. Many loans are bought up through the national central banks. That brings with it risks. Eventually, the Dutch Bank has made a provision, but that is not the overall understanding of the risks associated with public finances. So I would like to hear or see an analysis on this point: what does the ECB's policy mean for the risks to the Dutch budget? The second point relates to gas extraction and has recently been in the media. What happens to compensation for victims if less or no gas is produced in Groningen over the years? Those are people whose houses are broken or damaged. That's what we've agreed on. Are these appointments being kept? How's that taken care of? If the NAM doesn't make any more money, who's gonna pay for this? The NAM is liable, but you can't pick a bald chicken. Has this been considered and has the cabinet arranged for damage or damage to be compensated for those earthquakes which may continue for 10 to 15 years? I come to the conclusion of my speech. At the heart of the government's policy of recent years is that the welfare state, which needed great maintenance and where problems have been put forward for years, also because of not too courageous political decisions, and a financial crisis has come to an end. This also allows for new necessary investments in the future. If you look at the state budget, you can see that the sustainability deficit, the deficit to pay our provisions in the future, has turned into a surplus. You can even see that, in the near future, we are moving towards government surpluses rather than deficits, even though we still have to see if they are, because we know what the predictions are worth sometimes. This will allow for necessary investment in a sustainable and social economy, in a knowledge-based economy, and in education. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, the cabinet has laid an excellent foundation for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u89	In his last sentence, Mr Nijboer once again said the word'sustainability'. He referred to the government's commitment in 2012, but wasn't there a commitment to green growth at the time, or the decoupling of economic growth and CO emissions? In 2015, there is 2% GDP growth and a huge increase in CO emissions. We haven't gotten any closer to our goal, we've gotten farther away from it. Does Mr Nijboer agree that nothing has come of the cabinet's intention in terms of green growth, decoupling growth and CO emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u90	The cabinet has concluded one of the most ambitious energy agreements in history. There is a lot of discussion about whether these objectives are being met. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this is the case. My colleague Jan Vos does not miss the opportunity to appeal to the cabinet as well. I myself put that as one of the main points during last year's Day of Account; I remember that very well. Additional measures have also been announced, such as the closure of a number of coal plants, which are one of the largest CO pollutants.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u91	It is very nice that Mr Nijboer has touched a little on the question. However, I note that in 2012 the aim was to decouple growth and CO emissions, but in 2015 it was proven that the opposite is the case: the link is almost even stronger than before. Does Mr Nijboer agree that it is really all hands on deck? I would like to show him a graph of the development of the percentage of renewable energy. According to this cabinet's too low ambition, that percentage should be 14% by 2020, but of course we are never going to get that figure. That's just what you can see from the line in the graph, because it stays the same, when it should actually go up. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that it is all hands on deck and does he intend to table another motion with me during this debate to ask the cabinet to do everything in its power to ensure that this decoupling is actually achieved and that we are really going to get to work? Because it's going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u92	The PvdA and GroenLinks fight side by side on this point. In fact, because of this problem, our group chairmen have jointly announced a climate law to make not only an ordinary budget, but also a kind of climate budget, in order to reduce CO emissions. We're working on that together now. So we're really on the same side.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u93	I do not hear Mr Nijboer on Accountability Day about this main issue of policy. I have to remind him of that in an interruption. I didn't read anything about this in the Cabinet's Accountability Letter. This means that, however much we work together on this issue, we have so far been empty-handed and another year has passed without real results. Can Mr Nijboer at least agree with me that this is simply a disgrace and that it should be denounced as much as the abuses of V and J, Defense and the Tax Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u94	No, because I firmly deny that nothing is happening. It just isn't. Let us take the coal-fired debate as an example alone. Secretary of State Dijksma, together with Minister Kamp, has informed the Chamber of how many coal power stations will close in the near future. But I do agree with Mr Grashoff that the commitment to sustainability is too slow. However, Mr Grashoff pretends that there are no documents, but I have seen a whole package of documents from the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment and the Minister for Economic Affairs, explaining the objectives that have not been achieved. That is a good package and there is nothing missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u95	To my stupid surprise, I missed one thing: the concern. I don't know if Mr. Nijboer forgot it. We have had major decentralisations, and there have been huge cuts in long-term care, home care and daily spending, which means that people get home more lonely and they don't even come into care homes anymore, because they are closed down by hundreds at the same time. How can Mr Nijboer not say anything about this? It's like a blind spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u96	Mr Merkies tells only half of the story. The other half is that there are more and more district nurses, that community care is increasing and that more and more people are staying at home instead of in an institution, and getting the care they need. That's what the Cabinet put in place. This also fits in with a changing society. When you ask people, they often answer that they prefer to live at home longer. That makes it possible for the cabinet, among other things by hundreds, I believe even thousands, extra district nurses. They can decide much more themselves what care they provide instead of an indication body doing so. Mr Merkies sketches a black picture of health care. There are certainly problems, but at the same time we live in a country with one of the best healthcare systems in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u97	I have spoken in my own contribution about the ambulances that cannot go to the Emergency Service. Those ambulances can't go to neighborhood nursing, they really need to go to the E.R. If these posts are closed because of the problem that older people no longer have care and then go there, I do not understand why Mr Nijboer completely ignores that. I thought his party did say we should do something for the elderly. There has been talk of removing the additional 500 million on institutional care for the elderly and the disabled. Is Mr Nijboer still behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u98	I've been talking about the elderly. That's where the care comes in. He has the full attention of the PvdA. Especially the Emergency Service should just be available to everyone at all times. As a prosperous country, we can also finance this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u99	Mr Nijboer also knows that the Emergency Aid has disappeared in many places. So it plays on all fronts. I do not really get an answer from Mr Nijboer. Should the 500 million be cancelled or would he like to cut back another 500 million on the elderly and the disabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u100	The PvdA Group does not propose cutting back on the elderly and the disabled. I'll be careful. I would find that very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u101	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the annual report on 2015. We also call it "minced day." This is the chance that we will be able to cut down on Mr Rutte's disastrous cabinet policy and his raiding gang. I am happy to accept the challenge. The cabinet wants us to believe that things are improving in the Netherlands, but for the people in the country things are only getting worse. Let's take stock of the situation. Who were the big losers in 2015? The first were the 614,000 unemployed, who were looking for a job in vain. This number does not want to fall, despite all the good intentions of Minister Asscher. He spends 600 million on sector plans and 266 million on reintegration grants, which the Court of Auditors is now saying is wasted money. One grant after another was introduced: the pilot placement, the network training, the training voucher, the placement fairy and the campaign inspiration days, but nothing helped. The subsidy industry is working overtime thanks to the PvdA, but it has not created a job: 1 billion through the well. Who else was gonna lose? The elderly, for whom there is no place in the nursing home and who can whistle to their household help and guidance. With the participation company, Prime Minister Rutte probably meant the "pick it out for yourself" company. Of course, society as a whole is a great loser. We were attacked by a tsunami of asylum seekers, 58,880 in 2015 alone, who cost us 2 billion in reception. 2 billion euros! They will permanently disrupt society. The police have their hands full with them. No one's asked for them. We import a big problem and the cabinet lets this happen. Last week, in the news that Germany has calculated that this influx of asylum seekers will cost the state 100 billion until 2020, but we should not know the costs for the Netherlands. Money does not matter, Mr Samsom calls with tearful eyes; I still see him standing. Money does play a role. We can't afford 100 billion in costs. Other losers are the tenants, who are driven out of their homes by the ridiculous rent increases, the workers, who, thanks to the PvdA, are allowed to work until the age of 70, with fewer and fewer pensions, the sick, who year after year see their contributions and their own risks rise excessively and the people who lost their jobs, such as V&D, who see their WW rights reduced. But the biggest losers of 2015 are, of course, pensioners, who have been forced to surrender purchasing power for eight years in a row because their pension is not indexed and even cut. They will be billed for the crisis. The pension pots were never as richly filled as the present 1,400 billion and yet pensioners have to charge themselves poor because of low interest rates. Because the ECB has set interest rates at zero, many pension funds are under water and pensions are about to be cut massively, while the same low interest rates are a major windfall for our Minister of Finance. He pays almost 1 billion less interest on the government debt than before. That's free money. He benefits while 3 million pensioners are being duped. How unjust that is! The PVV therefore wants to pass this windfall on to the pensioners. As long as the interest rate is low, we want to increase the AOW by €300, immediately; nothing Prinsjesdag, nothing 2017. Pensioners are entitled to this in order to compensate for the non-indexation and reduction of pensions. That's so fair and fair. I hope, therefore, that there will be a great deal of support in the Chamber. Support our elders, because they have built the Netherlands. You will hear it: almost everyone in the Netherlands lost in 2015. Yet here is a satisfied Prime Minister. How is that possible? Were there any winners? Oh, yeah. The Minister of Finance was a great winner, just like the Eurocrats in Brussels, not to mention the Greeks and, of course, the asylum seekers. Let me walk them by. The Minister of Finance sees public debt falling for the first time in six years and the deficit is much lower than expected, but that is, of course, thanks to low interest rates. The interest rate halved last year and went from 1.45% to 0.7% in one year. He is currently paying less than 0.5% for a ten-year loan. I'd like to convert my mortgage loan into a loan at 0.5% interest. In short terms, less than eight years, the Minister even receives money. That's every finance minister's dream. He looks happy. Brussels, the European Commission, is also satisfied. For the Commission, 2015 was a jubilee year. They have never received so many euros from the Netherlands in Brussels. It was more than ever: almost 9 billion or €530 per Dutchman, a record. What did we get in return? 1.5 billion in agricultural subsidies and a lot of headaches: headaches of Greece, headaches of the ECB with its kamikaze policy and headaches of the refugee crisis. Another winner, of course, is the Greeks, because they managed to get the EU back a 86 billion aid package on top of previous 240 billion packages. It's an incredible achievement: never stick to the agreements and still get 320 billion loose. But don't worry, we'll get everything back with interest. Mr. President, do you still believe it? Yesterday we were faced with another tranche: 10 billion. It is even promised that debt will now be eased. But, of course, they mean that the debts will be forgiven. We're not getting anything back. Watch what I tell you. Many billions to the Greeks and nothing for our elders: it is a disgrace. Finally, a winner. Those are, of course, the asylum seekers. Last year, almost 60,000 of these lucky seekers were received in the Netherlands with open arms. Everything was taken out of the closet to make them happy. They get everything for free: a free home, free care, a benefit, free education, language classes, free clothing, free decor, everything, everything for free. Pensioners are cut off on their pensions, but this group gets everything for free. The cost of receiving asylum seekers in 2015 was therefore 2 billion. Now I come to the waste of this cabinet. I haven't heard from anyone about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u102	Did I really hear that Mr Van Dijck describes asylum seekers, people who come from a war zone and who may have lost family members as winners?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u103	It is the winners because of the way they were received in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u104	Those were not Mr Van Dijck's words. He literally said: "Winners are also the asylum seekers." We can differ on how to deal with asylum seekers and what they get and what they do not get, but to label this group of people as winners? I'd be ashamed!
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u105	I told you, it's the winners because they get everything for free. They're coming to the Netherlands. Mrs Schouten calls them asylum seekers, but my group calls them happiness seekers, because they come first through six safe countries. That is why, as far as we are concerned, they are economic refugees. They were already safe in Greece or Turkey or in the Balkans and you name it. For us they are economic refugees, but in the Netherlands the red carpet is explained and they get everything for free. In the meantime, Mrs Schouten is abandoning our elders. That is not what my group is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u106	We're gonna keep talking past each other. I have already said that we can differ on how to accommodate these people, to what extent and so on, but I really fall over the term "winners'. I would like Mr Van Dijck to reflect on that again. I still find people who may have seen their family members or children die as economic refugees or winners a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u107	We find it a disgrace that borders are wide open and that the Christian Union allows us to be overwhelmed by 60,000 economic refugees who cost us 2 billion and disrupt our society. But I do not hear Mrs Schouten talking about the elderly who have built the Netherlands; they may be cut off and deprived of domestic help. That's the Christian Union in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u108	I wholeheartedly endorse Mrs Schouten's words that the designation of refugees as winners is a real disgrace. The PVV should reconsider that. If you think that so much money is being spent on the refugees who are here in the meantime, and it is true, that costs a lot of money...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u109	A lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u110	Mr Van Dijck says that they continue to cost our society money for a long time and that they continue to cause problems. There is one thing that could change this: make sure that people come to work here. Does Mr Van Dijck agree? I have also asked Mrs De Vries that it would be wise to invest in training and real employment opportunities for refugees? Could the PVV have the guts to invest a little more and leave its own problem, "this society will continue to pay for this up to days," by supporting a motion with me to ensure that money is provided for real training and vocational training for refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u111	That is also a big difference with GroenLinks. GroenLinks assumes that these people will stay here for a long time; we hope they will go back when it is safe again. But if GroenLinks is in charge, the Netherlands looks very different. Mr Grashoff wants to teach them the language, give them their education and you name it, but we do not have to do that. They must return as soon as possible to rebuild their own country. We also have 614,000 unemployed in the Netherlands, which we must first help to find a job. Now we need job markets for refugees. I do not know what those asylum seekers from Syria can do more and better than those 600,000 Dutch people sitting on the couch waiting for a job. Mr Grashoff wants to focus all the focus, all the attention and all the money on that small group of refugees, but he forgets that he is a representative of the Dutch, including those 614,000 Dutch unemployed. If he wants to spend money, he would have to spend it on 614,000 Dutch unemployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u112	Interruptions must be short and the answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u113	That group of 614,000 unemployed already contains refugees, namely those who have already been registered as status holders, and that will of course continue in the coming years. That is not the point, however. I agree with Mr Van Dijck that there is a need for much more intensive action on employment policy, but I believe that the path to this end is completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u114	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u115	It is now about whether Mr Van Dijck agrees with me that you should invest in the people who are and will stay here. Whether we like it or not, they'll stay here. Of course we hope that some of them will go back when it becomes safe in Syria. I hope so for them, and they hope so for themselves. But if they are here, they must be able to find a job and we must ensure that they can find it. Otherwise it will indeed be a permanent problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u116	You just asked me that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u117	I know we have 614,000 Dutch unemployed. That is going to be 674,000, because 60,000 asylum seekers are now coming in. So the problem is only getting bigger. GroenLinks only wants to spend more money and keep the borders open. GroenLinks even wants to invite people and send plane tickets to them to bring them here. As far as I'm concerned, you're off the hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u118	You've already given that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u119	It is quite clear that the PVV is very keen to maintain problems, so that they can always be addressed. The PVV never wants to solve those problems, because imagine that PVV would lose that unique selling point.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u120	We do want to solve the problems. We were gonna close the borders and we wouldn't let anyone in. We now see the cost of 60,000 asylum seekers in the first year, namely 2 billion. I would have liked to have spent that 2 billion differently, on our elderly people, on those 614,000 unemployed, on burden relief, on Dutch people. You spend 2 billion by keeping the borders wide open and you hope that this year and next year there will be 60,000 again, until the Netherlands is all the way to damnation. That's your ideal image for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u121	I am trying to find out when Mr Van Dijck calls refugees economic refugees or lucky seekers and when they are war refugees for him. He says they've come through safe countries and that's why they're lucky seekers. Are they even war fugitives when they get to the first safe country?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u122	Mr Merkies, this is a debate on responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u123	Yes, but Mr Van Dijck is bringing it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u124	It's very simple. You flee a war and you run until you're safe. That's in the first country. If you say in the first country that you are going to look even further because you have better family allowances elsewhere and then go to a second country, you are no longer a war fugitive. Then you're an economic fugitive to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u125	No, Mr Van Dijck, that is not my question. You heard my question very well. When people arrive in the first country, are they war fugitives or lucky seekers? Then they haven't been through all those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u126	I just said that. They went through seven or eight countries before they came to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u127	Mr Van Dijck, you have to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u128	I do not believe that the Belgians are at war and are on the run. Do you? Then I missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u129	Mr Merkies, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u130	This is a problem. Mr Van Dijck deliberately does not answer because he is not coming out. He's not coming out because he knows damn well they're war refugees. He cannot deny that there is a terrible war in Syria. Or does he even want to deny it? Is he saying there's nothing wrong with Syria living in peace? Oh, come on. These people are rejected from home and are therefore war refugees. So I wonder what Mr Van Dijck is proposing. So he says: in the first country they are apparently war refugees, so sit there with millions. Is that Mr Van Dijck's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u131	A brief response, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u132	I do not know which stone Mr Merkies has been under, but we are calling for shelter in the region. I do not know if he has ever seen those tent camps in Saudi Arabia: they are empty, with air conditioning and all, and there are a million people in them. And what does Saudi Arabia say? No, no, go on to the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u133	Please continue, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u134	Finally, I would like to comment on the waste of tax expenditure. Last year the General Court found in an investigation that 18 billion in tax subsidies are being granted in the Netherlands, and 6 billion in normal subsidies. So every year we pump out 24 billion in subsidies. This cabinet therefore scatters with subsidies and hopes for a makeable society, with the PvdA leading the way. What this brings is unknown. The General Court also calls for attention to be paid to this. Take the expat scheme, which costs 700 million. The PVV has been in favour of abolishing it for ten years and is now finally supported by the Court of Auditors, which also says that the Cabinet has no idea how effective this arrangement is. 700 million. The same applies to the innovation box. It costs 1.2 billion, but it is not known whether this will actually help. The whole room wants to get rid of it. The VVD is still in doubt. I say get rid of it. The same applies, as Mr Omtzigt has just said, to the 6 billion in subsidies on fuel-efficient cars. I can go on like this for a while. Last year, the Court of Auditors concluded that more than 5 billion in tax subsidies are being provided for which we do not know the impact. We're buying a good feeling. We believe that this waste of taxpayers' money should be stopped immediately. Summering 2015 isn't exactly a year to be proud of. The welfare state was slowly dismantled while the cash taps went abroad and to asylum seekers fully opened. This cabinet is setting its priorities wrong. It's time for a reset, time for elections, time for the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u135	There's a clap in the public gallery, but you can't do that, sir. Did you bring a fan, Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u136	The one.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u137	Your nephew?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u138	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet, but certainly also the General Court, for the excellent documents we have received for the day of responsibility and for the good work. On these days it is very tempting to look ahead, but I really want to talk today about Accountability Day. I want to look back and see what we can learn from the past, where things have gone wrong and where things need to be better. The house has been thoroughly renovated in recent years with the support of D66. Much of the necessary reforms have been implemented, and with results, as is evident today. The good news on Accountability Day 2015 may be there. Economic growth was 2% of GDP. Unemployment has also fallen slightly, leading to a changing housing market. The government debt ratio fell sharply to 65% of GDP. The general government deficit was also lower than initially estimated. The signals are therefore green, but that certainly should not be a reason to rest on the laurels. It has already been said that unemployment is still far too high. I hope we have learned by now not to push through important reforms, because you have to fix the roof when the sun shines. An important part of Accountability Day is the legality inquiry. It is important to think about this, because the House of Representatives wants to know whether taxpayers' money is being spent well. The Court of Auditors is pleased to note that legality is in order again. Everywhere it remains well below the tolerance limit of 1% errors and uncertainties. That's an excellent score, and it's been for years. So much for the good news, because my group is once again shocked by the lack of research into the effectiveness of policies. We all spend 250 billion a year, but we have little insight into whether that money also has the desired effect. One example from the documents is the approach to older people's unemployment. D66 considers this to be an extremely important issue and would like to know whether the measures will be effective. However, it remains unclear whether Mr Asscher's approach actually works. He has no idea how many people use it at all while more than 250 million go a year. Last year it also appeared that the job plans, for which 600 million has been earmarked, have little effect. I'm worried about that. In recent years, D66 has tried, often together with the VVD, to give more attention to effectiveness research. It's the core of Accountability Day. That starts with setting goals, then monitoring and evaluating or reviewing the policy. Fortunately, the involvement of the House of Representatives in the policy reviews has improved. However, I read in the Reich's Annual Financial Report that out of the 28 planned policy reviews, more than half of them were not completed in 2015. So the question is, how is that possible? How are we going to ensure that all policy reviews are completed next year? I would like to hear the response of the Minister of Finance. The Court also notes a number of major and persistent problems. Although the management of many ministries is better in order than last year, the Court considers that there are serious deficiencies in three classic public service obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u139	I have a question about the policy review. D66 rightly says that it needs more attention. Older people's unemployment is indeed an important issue. However, there is also a fairly critical report on the expat scheme. I wonder how D66 looks at that report. That actually says: 700 million is spent on it, the base is badly thought out and it may lead to displacement. How does D66 feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u140	I very much agree with that. This is the same as what I just said about the broad policy review. We need to set targets and monitor what happens and then determine whether it works or not. If it doesn't work, you have to stop. We'd better use that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u141	So D66 is willing to talk about adjusting or even stopping the expat scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u142	Sure. I had stayed with the three classic public service contracts. This concerns the Tax Office, the Ministry of V and J and the Ministry of Defence. The Court of Auditors notes serious shortcomings. The Court's report shows that only limited efforts have been made in these ministries. The rulers have known for years what the problems are, but they are hardly being addressed. To start with the Tax Administration, the challenges are large and numerous. The structured approach in relation to the investment agenda seems to have been a good move, but it must be done. According to the Court of Auditors, the Tax Administration is only at the beginning of much-needed modernisation and has not even started addressing the major ICT systems, with the result that politics is tied up because future changes in tax legislation, for example a tax review, entail greater risks. According to Secretary of State Wiebes in a reaction last week, this criticism is unjustified, because he believes that changes are still possible. My question to the Minister of Finance is what is happening now. When is there an overall plan of action that will enable the Court to carry out its controlling task properly? Then the Ministry of V and J. It is now recognized from left to right that it has been a mess there for years. Ever since this VVD Prime Minister decided to place police and justice in a superministry, the VVD's parade horse, it went wrong. As early as 2012, the Court of Auditors identified the financial management of Security and Justice as a serious flaw. In the meantime, we are five years ahead and the Court concludes that the Ministry is still not in control and is concerned that there is no adjustment during the year. Apparently, nothing's changed all this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u143	Mr Koolmees rightly asks a number of questions to the cabinet about the Tax Administration and possibilities for a reform of the system. But what is the thinking of D66 itself about this? I know the party as a supporter of firm tax reforms. By the way, we are, although I do not know whether we are entirely in agreement on the direction of these tax reforms. Does Mr Koolmees agree with me that we cannot wait six years? Does he agree with me that it might perhaps be wise to turn the need into a virtue by looking at the necessary changes and simplifications while at the same time making the system change and ICT changes? That is another approach which cannot be implemented overnight, but I am curious to see how Mr Koolmees views it.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u144	The short answer is yes. The longer answer is that it would be a very attractive perspective. For years, D66 has been calling for a major tax reform to make it easier, to reduce taxes on labour and to make another tax mix, such as greening, so that the economy can work better and more people can get a job. That has to be done responsibly. Tax collection is a very important task for the government, because without tax collection there is also no room to finance education and care. So it has to be done responsibly. I note that the Court of Auditors has made some very critical comments. I also note that, fortunately, the Secretary of State for Finance says that there is still a great deal to be done. That is why I ask the Minister of Finance to respond. Mr. Chairman. I was with V and J. I noted that there have been problems for a number of years and that not much has changed. Even the improvement points identified by the Minister of V and J were not implemented in 2015, despite the commitments made in May 2015. As a result, problems have arisen in all major justice services: in the NFI, in the police, in the national police, in the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the Social Intervention Service, in the case law, in the Royal Marechaussee. The security chain and the rule of law crack in their joints. For D66, that's an unbearable idea. The fact that the Ministry was only placed under curatele of the Ministry of Finance at the end of last year, at the end of 2015, did not contribute to this. I'm asking the Prime Minister why he hasn't intervened before. Why let it muddy for so long when all the signals have been on red for years? We now need to add hundreds of millions for emergency repairs in order to guarantee basic safety care. Nor can it be explained that taxpayers' money is being handled so carelessly. I'd like to get a comprehensive response. Let us not burden another cabinet with this multi-headed monster ministry. As I said earlier in an interruption towards Mrs De Vries, it is hopeful that even VVD colleague Zijlstra said in the newspaper last Saturday that splitting up V and J is inevitable. I therefore recall the motion that was tabled and adopted in November 2015 by D66 in the First Chamber, with the support of, among other things, the Labour Party. This motion calls for the administration of the police to be returned to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations at the next cabinet formation and calls on the government to take charge of the preparation of this, because you cannot decide to do so overnight. It has to be well prepared. There was broad support and the cabinet agreed to take up the implementation. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he can indicate what progress has been made. When will the Chamber be informed of the best way to unravel V and J? If parties in the 2017 formation want to do something with it and want to do something with it responsibly, there must be a plan of action by January 2017. I would like a response from the Prime Minister as to whether the cabinet is prepared to deliver this plan of action. Then Defence, because the Court of Auditors gives the same license of inability to the Ministry of Defence. The core task of the Defence apparatus is to protect the Dutch territory. It is quite shocking that the Minister of Defence says that she can no longer guarantee security in the Dutch territory and that of the allies. The Court notes that in 2015 as many as 41% of the units were unable to meet their operational objective. That's almost half of it. It is so bad with our armed forces that battalions have gone on foot training because their vehicles are too old or simply defective. A lot of equipment stands still, because spare parts are not there and are not there either. Solutions to the worst problems in the logistics chain are given too little priority and there is insufficient coordination, according to the Court of Auditors. It's as deceptive as it is worrying. Like V and J, this VVD ministry is not in control and shows far too little improvement. And that while Minister Hennis promised us to come to her office to clean up and get all the bodies out of the closet. The Prime Minister often says that he is Minister of General Affairs and not of all matters. As far as D66 is concerned, these classic public services, defence, security and justice and taxation are clearly covered by General Affairs. The Prime Minister clearly has an important role to play here, especially since this Prime Minister and his colleagues in the VVD have been screaming from the rooftops over the last few years that they are going to put their house in order. My question is therefore to make this happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u145	Nice lyrics, as far as I'm concerned. The question is of course what D66 itself will do later this year and in the coming years. I am a little concerned because there was only a motion at the D66 Congress in which it was stated that there was no need for any more money to be spent on defence. I'm assuming...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u146	No, that wasn't the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u147	Maybe I can finish my question, Madam President. There was a proposal, which I believe was adopted, in which it was not completely excluded but which questioned whether you should continue to increase the defence budget. I am listening to Mr Koolmees in such a way that this proposal is not being implemented, should it indeed be the text, and that D66 will continue to support Defence, even if the budget goes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u148	I would like to invite Mr Dijkgraaf to a D66 congress sometime. Then he can follow the motions. Such a motion was not on the agenda. I believe that it is widely recognised, even at D66, that given the situation in the world there should be more money available for defence. In fact, together with Mr Dijkgraaf, I have made extra space available for Defence in the past year with the cabinet in the budget agreement, but also in the 2015 budget. It is realistic to assume that in the coming years there will indeed need to be more money from the Defense Department in order to properly carry out that important core task of the government, which is to ensure security. The motion was really about something completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u149	At least that rumor went around, so I'm glad this is out of the blue. I'd be happy to accept the invitation. We're gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u150	Next time, I will personally show Mr Dijkgraaf around the D66 Congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u151	An open invitation. Please continue, Mr Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u152	Mr. Chairman. If trade union ministers consistently fail to solve problems, it is the prime minister's responsibility as a political finalist to intervene. How is the Prime Minister going to bring this situation to an end at last? What is he going to do in concrete terms to put things in order? I ask the Minister of Finance how he deals with these problems from the point of view of his system responsibility. At the Treasury Department, shouldn't all the alarm bells go off? The financial risks are incalculable. As far as I am concerned, a striking illustration of not being "in control" is the final law change in the Defense Department. After 1 December, after the Navy Note, another 350 million has suddenly been transferred to the Ministry of Defence. That is 5% of the total defence budget, and this without the approval of the House of Representatives. As far as I am concerned, this illustrates exactly the problem. When's the plan coming up? When are we gonna get to work? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In summary, both V and J and Defense have serious operational deficiencies and insufficient action is being taken to put them in order. The current state of affairs is irresponsible and unacceptable. Both ministers, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, say they're on top of it. However, this is not sufficient for the time being. It's time for real intervention. My group is asking the cabinet to put things in order quickly and to allow the General Court to look into progress, in particular in the Ministry of V and J and the Ministry of Defence, in order to get financial control, financial situation and management in order. The zero readings are now complete. The Chamber should be able to keep its finger on the wrist on a structural basis. May I assume that the Prime Minister fully supports this? Finally. "Don't push forward but tackle it" was the title of the VVD's election programme. As far as I am concerned, it looks very well in the introduction: 'politics and our politicians should expect voters in our adult democracy not to make false promises and not pretend to offer easy solutions to difficult problems'. I very much agree with that. That is why I call on the Prime Minister to make this happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u153	Mr. Chairman. It has been recalled before today, but this is the last Accountability debate of this cabinet in missionary state. It seemed as if some time ago the Minister of Finance wanted to put an end to the relatively young tradition of the third Wednesday in May, the Day of Accountability, but fortunately this year we can also consider the responsibility of the cabinet for the policy. This accountability is accompanied by a thorough audit by the General Court of Auditors, for which I would like to thank the President, Mr Visser. Politicians often prefer to look ahead and make new plans rather than look back and assess what has come of plans. But sometimes we also have to show ourselves a mirror and dare to judge honestly whether our pace of policy changes is being carried out in practice. The Court of Auditors has put its finger on this. "Review" and "time for implementation" were key words in the speech of the President of the General Court. As the term of this cabinet is coming to an end, this debate is therefore the time to look more broadly at the results of the cabinet's own ambitions and how they have been implemented. The cabinet wanted to build bridges in society by strengthening the interconnectedness, optimism and strength of the Netherlands. This with three pillars under the policy: putting the treasury in order, sharing fairly and working towards sustainable growth. The Treasuries have come to an end. The government debt fell and the economy is getting better. That's worth a compliment. But there is more to it than public finances. The question is also how our society stands. In 2015, in particular, the approach to the refugee crisis and the very different responses in society have shown that there is sometimes little interconnectivity. There are people who show their displeasure, but fortunately there are also people who stick their hands out of their hands. The reception of refugees has shown once again how sharp the fault lines and contradictions are in society, fault lines that go through this house, where political fragmentation continues and contradictions are magnified more than ever. Not only developments in the world lead to contradictions in society. We must also be critical of the policy we are pursuing. Doesn't that contribute to that division on parts, too? Let me give you an example of the introduction of the debt system. Transmitters from MBO to HBO have a larger threshold to go to higher education. Students with a disability, who had not had it easy, have also not made it easier with this debt system. But early selection in secondary education also quickly pushes children into a defined level, in which even your origin influences the level at which you are classified. In the labour market, the division between flex and fixed would be reduced. The practice is that many people are now faced with a job that just ends before they have to be put into service. The intention of the Work and Security Act was good, but in its elaboration it leads to even more separation between fixed and flex. The issue of pensions has put even more pressure on solidarity between young and old. Older people have for years noticed that pensions are not indexed or even reduced. And young people wonder if they will ever see anything of the pensions for which they are now paying contributions. This cabinet, however, always puts this major problem ahead of itself. It stays on the hands and looks away. We have also often talked about the contradiction between Groningen and the rest of the Netherlands in this house. If we are thinking about it, how does the cabinet itself look back at achieving its own goal of "breaking bridges"? Does it recognise that one's own policy on parts has increased the contradictions? What does it intend to do about this in the last year of government? The cabinet also focused on sustainable growth, but towards the end of the cabinet period the great transition has not been achieved. First of all, the renewable energy target was reduced from 16% to 14% by 2020. The Energy Agreement makes progress in a number of areas, but does not lead to the major energy transition that is needed. The environmental and energy issues call for an effective government that is radiating the urgency that is gradually becoming necessary. And so not a government that appeals against the Urgendac case, whereas this ruling is a fact of fact for the government, not a government that has been forced twice in the last year by the Council of State to reduce the level of gas extraction in Groningen, not a government that is pushing forward green measures in anticipation of investigations and an Energy Dialogue, while recently new coal power stations have been opened and the share of renewable energy increased only 0.3 percentage points last year to 5.8%. In this context, I would also like to mention the EUR 0.5 billion remaining in the SDE+. This is done annually and not only to the frustration of the Chamber, but also to the frustration of the applicants. Many projects are submitted, but each time there is a delay or they cannot be awarded. How does the government intend to improve the SDE+, which is being raised through a storage on the energy account? How else is it going to ensure that the resources also reach the goal of more green energy? How is it prevented that hopeful initiatives remain on the shelf for another year? The Dutch Bank has warned about a carbon bubble. This bubble is not only a risk to pension funds and other investors, but also to the State itself. The value of oil and gas reserves fell by as much as 33% between 2012 and 2014 from 175 billion to 117 billion. What are the consequences of this reduction for the state balance and should we not take into account the scenario that gas remains in the ground, because we need to work on renewable energy? In three key tasks of the government, tax collection, security and defence, the General Court has identified serious shortcomings. Those are, for God's sake, classic public service! It is worrying that the cabinet has not managed to address these shortcomings in recent years, because unfortunately these points are not new. These are points that the Court of Auditors has been warning about for years. How is it that the cabinet fails to tackle these bottlenecks? Has there been enough directing on this? I also ask the Minister of Finance. I'll start with the IRS. According to the Court of Auditors, the Tax Administration has made little progress in recent years in modernising obsolete ICT systems. Major reforms such as the tax reform, which was still under discussion a year ago, would not be possible at all. However, according to the Secretary of State, the ICT systems can still handle simplifications. That is a remarkable difference of opinion and no less relevant to the Chamber, because it matters for policy purposes whether or not the Tax Administration can handle it. Can the government explain the difference of opinion between the Cabinet and the General Court? Does the Cabinet believe that the Tax Administration can still handle reforms? Addressing the major financial problems in the Ministry of Security and Justice does not lead to concrete improvements. Both the structure and the culture on the ministry stand in the way of improvements, it seems. The ministry is simply too large and the directors are not sufficiently in control. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, police and justice must be pulled apart as soon as possible. We need to get rid of the mammoth ministry the VVD wanted so badly. That project failed! Does the Prime Minister recognize that, too? In particular, the Court cuts financial management, including national police, prisons and the criminal justice chain. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, more reporting times are needed so that we can assess the state of play with regard to the announced moments of improvement and whether the Ministry will be more in control. As far as we are concerned, the Minister for Finance also has a role to play in this. We would like to involve the General Court in this. For our external security, we are now at the mercy of others, as the Minister of Defence acknowledges. This year, the Court of Auditors has come up with a destructive report which identifies serious shortcomings. Due to the fact that the Defense Department is still carrying out an unsatisfied trade on its own, the organization is being predatory. Of its units, only 59% achieve its operational objectives. Staff can't or barely train. Fregates, helicopters and other equipment are catching dust due to the lack of spare parts. According to the same Court of Auditors, the solution lies not only with more financial resources, but without them, the recovery plan is, in any case, doomed to failure. Will the cabinet actually use its last financial year to use that recovery? However, we understand from the Minister of Defence that the financial possibilities for this are very limited. I'd like a response from the Minister of Finance. I have two other points to make. Firstly, the issue of older people's unemployment. It is very remarkable and very poignant that we do not know what the impact of the measures is. And not only we don't know that, there's no punch line on the ministry either. If we are always taking measures that must be taken to see how we can improve the chances of older people in the labour market, why not first look at what has worked in the past? Then perhaps we can apply the well-functioning measures first. Can the Minister reflect on that? As far as concerns are concerned, the Court of Auditors is putting its finger on the failing system of drawing rights which is still operating with emergency links. We are now working on a structural solution and the Christian Union is keen to see that we are not muddling with these emergency connections, but that we are working with a realistic timetable towards a system in which the direction really falls to the budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u154	I was very pleased that Mrs Schouten was cutting the issue of carbon bubble. Now we have a report from DNB, but we have also received a response from the Minister of Finance very recently. How does Mrs Schouten express this reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u155	I have to say quite frankly, I don't know exactly what that reaction is. I haven't taken her right to me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u156	In any case, I can tell Mrs Schouten that it contains the phrase: if we start the reduction of CO in good time, then it is, quite translated, not so much with the future bubble.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u157	I have just heard the Minister confirm that it does, so that will be the conclusion. I have already indicated that I believe that the ambitions should be raised, but that there is also a risk to the state balance if we do not work on the carbon bubble. The Netherlands Bank mainly points to other companies, to pension funds and to companies that invest a lot in industries where environmentally polluting work is often carried out. I think we, as a government, should take a good look at ourselves. For example, we have quite a few gas stocks on our balance sheet. If we stop recording them or if they become less valuable very quickly, it will also have consequences for our balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2016-05-26-tweedekamer-2.u158	Thank you. I suggest we suspend the lunch break meeting. Then we start work at 2:00 p.m. and then we resume the debate on responsibility.
